DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                      CFETP 63AX & 1101
Headquarters US Air Force                                              Parts I and II
Washington DC 20330-1030                                              1 August 2012




                     ACQUISITION MANAGERS
                         (63AX & 1101)




                    CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
                      AND TRAINING PLAN




ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing
website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                                            ACQUISITION MANAGER
                                  CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                             TABLE OF CONTENTS



PART I

Preface . ........................................................................................................................................................ 1

Abbreviations and Terms Explained......................................................................................................... 3

Section A - General Information ................................................................................................................ 17
   Purpose of the CFETP
   Roles and Responsibilities
        CFM
        AFIT
        MAJCOM Functional Managers
        Wing/Group/Squadron CC
        Supervisors
        Individuals
   Coordination and Approval

Section B – Career Progression and Information ....................................................................................... 20
   Purpose
   Acquisition Management Specialty Description
   Skill/Career Progression and Certification
   Training Decisions
   Acquisition Management Career Path/Training Flow

Section C - Proficiency Training Requirements......................................................................................... 29
   Purpose
   Acquisition Management Specialty Qualifications

Section D - Resource Constraints ............................................................................................................... 30

Section E - Transitional Training Guide ........................................................................................ (not used)




                                                                                 ii
PART II

Section A - Air Force Formal Training Course Content ............................................................................ 31
   Purpose
   Records Documentation
   Air Force Acquisition Manager Training

Section B - Follow-on Unit Training.......................................................................................................... 32
   Concept
   Training Plan
   Training Period
   Signature Card for Trainee/Supervisor for Acquisition Manager Training Task List ........................... 33
   Acquisition Manager Training Task List for First Assignment ............................................................. 34
   Acquisition Manager Training Task List for Second and Third Assignment ........................................ 44

Section C - Support Materials .................................................................................................................... 51

Section D - Training Course Index ............................................................................................................. 52
   Purpose
   Entry Level and AFSC Awarding Courses ............................................................................................ 52
   Proficiency and Qualified AFSC Awarding Courses............................................................................. 53
   Advanced Acquisition Management Courses ........................................................................................ 55
   Enhancement and Currency Training..................................................................................................... 58

Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements ................................................................................ (not used)

                                                                List of Tables

Table 1. Acquisition Management Approximate Training Flow (Accessions) .......................................... 24
Table 2. USAF and DAU Program Management Track ............................................................................. 25


OPR: SAF/AQH
Certified by: Patrick M. Hogan, NH-IV (SAF/AQH)
Supersedes: CFETP 63AX & 1101, 17 March 2008
Pages: 62




                                                                         iii
                               ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT
                                     AFSC 63AX-1101
                       CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN


PART I

PREFACE

1.       Highly Trained Acquisition Managers. A highly trained, motivated military and civilian
workforce is the Air Force’s key resource in meeting challenges of the future. The Air and Space
Expeditionary Force (AEF) concept is dependent on cutting edge warfighting capabilities and their
sustainment for mission success. It is essential the Air Force have a fully trained and qualified
Acquisition Management corps able to lead and manage programs to deliver warfighting systems that
meet requirements, on time and on budget. The Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) for
civilian and military acquisition managers provides the framework and guidance necessary for planning,
developing, managing, and conducting the career field training program. The plan documents the
―training roadmap‖ for the career field. This roadmap identifies mandatory qualification and training
certification requirements acquisition managers must receive during their time in acquisition
management.

2.       The CFETP. The CFETP consists of two parts that are used to plan, manage, and control
training within the acquisition management [1101 (APDP position coded ―A‖) and 63AX] career field.

2.1.    Part I includes four sections that provide information necessary for overall management of
training in the career field. Section A explains how to use the plan; Section B identifies career
progression information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies; Section C associates each skill
level with qualifications (knowledge, training, education, experience, etc.); Section D indicates resource
constraints in formal/unit training (i.e., funds, manpower, equipment, facilities).

2.2.     Part II includes five sections. Section A identifies the course content and includes duties and
tasks to support AFIT and unit training requirements; Section B contains a follow-on unit training task list
that supervisors will use to teach new acquisition managers local operating/unit specific procedures and
operations, requirements, and common acquisition management procedures; Section C identifies available
support materials; Section D contains a training course index supervisors can use to determine resources
available to support both mandatory and optional training; Section E can be used to identify MAJCOM
unique training requirements. At unit level, supervisors and trainers use Part II to identify, plan, and
conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.

3.       Using the CFETP. Commanders/Directors and supervisors must use this CFETP to ensure
Acquisition Managers receive training and skill-enhancing experience at appropriate stages in their
development. All military 63AX and civilian 1101 acquisition managers should be familiar with the
CFETP for their use as a supervisor or a trainee. It is in the best interest of the trainee’s career to do their
best to accomplish items in this CFETP to develop the job knowledge they need, stay on par with their
peers, and be competitive for future jobs and promotion. The success and quality of the acquisition
workforce depends on experience. Supervisors/Commanders/Directors have the responsibility to make
sure trainees are developing the proper knowledge and experience to maintain a competent acquisition
workforce and ensure the trainee is well equipped for their career. Completion of the core tasks on the
Unit Training Task Lists are mandatory through the grade of Captain / GS-12 (or equivalent). These
plans are UCI (Unit Compliance Inspection) inspectable items.

4.      Guidance for the 2012 revision. Significant updates have been made throughout this document
to provide acquisition managers and their supervisors with the most up-to-date career field and training
                                                       1
information. Previous edition CFETP narrative sections (Part I and Part II Sections A, B, and D) should
be replaced with this edition’s for the most current information. Previous edition (2008 CFETP) follow-
on unit training task lists in Part II, Section C (now in Part II, Section B of 2012 CFETP) that are in-
progress do not need to be replaced. A task list yet to be started should be replaced with this current
edition’s. For example, if an individual is working on their initial assignment task list (A1) then he/she
may continue but should replace their second/third assignment task list (A2) with this 2012 revision. If
the supervisor or trainee prefers to update their partially completed task list to the new version, they
should transcribe previously completed tasks by reviewing them with their supervisor to determine which
tasks in the new version are applicable to be marked complete.




                                                    2
                          ABBREVIATIONS AND TERMS EXPLAINED

Acquisition Manager. An individual involved in managing a defense acquisition program covering
every aspect of the acquisition process, including integrating engineering, program control, test and
deployment, configuration management, production and manufacturing, quality assurance, and
logistics support. Includes project officers, program management officers, ACAT program
managers, PEOs, etc.

Acquisition Workforce. Individuals serving in acquisition coded positions; i.e., individuals whose
duties are predominantly acquisition duties.

ACAT. Acquisition Category. Categories established to facilitate decentralized decision making and
execution and compliance with statutorily imposed requirements. The categories determine the level of
review, decision authority, and applicable procedures.

ACE. Acquisition Center of Excellence. A multidisciplined office with backgrounds in Acquisition
Program Management, Contracting and Engineering. The ACE provides skills to complement acquisition
IPTs to help them deliver the most effective capability to the warfighter quickly and within cost.

ADA. Anti-Deficiency Act. The salient features of this Act include: prohibitions against authorizing or
incurring obligations or expenditures in excess of amounts apportioned by the Office of Management and
Budget (OMB) or in excess of amounts permitted by agency regulations; and establishment of procedures
for determining the responsibility for violations and for reporting violations to the President, through
OMB and to the Congress.

AFCFM. Air Force Career Field Manager. Designated individual and office responsible for
developing and sustaining career field resources. Acquisition Management’s CFM is SAF/AQH (Air
Force Directorate of Acquisition Career Management).

AFFAM. Air Force Fundamentals of Acquisition Management. Foundational course for acquisition
managers, engineers and scientists. Introduces DoD acquisition rules and concepts in an Air Force
context. Offered in-residence at AFIT/LS.

AFIT. Air Force Institute of Technology. AFIT offers Masters degrees in many Engineering
disciplines, Engineering Management, Logistics Management, and Acquisition Logistics. Ph.D.
programs are also available. AFIT School of Systems and Logistics (AFIT/LS) also provides professional
continuing education courses (PCE). Refer to Section D.

AFMC. Air Force Materiel Command. Headquartered at Wright Patterson AFB, OH.

AFSAC. Air Force Security Assistance Center. AFSAC builds foreign partner capabilities in support
of global security objectives.

AFRL. Air Force Research Laboratory. AFRL's mission is leading the discovery, development and
integration of affordable warfighting technologies for America's aerospace forces. It is a full-spectrum
laboratory, responsible for planning and executing the Air Force' science and technology program. AFRL
leads a worldwide government, industry and academia partnership in the discovery, development and
delivery of a wide range of revolutionary technology. The laboratory provides leading-edge warfighting
capabilities keeping our air, space and cyberspace forces the world's best.

AFSC. Air Force Specialty Code. AFSCs are alphanumeric identifiers of occupational specialties of
airmen and their skill levels.

                                                   3
AFSPC. Air Force Space Command. Headquartered at Peterson AFB, CO.

AFISRA. Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency.                Headquartered at
Lackland AFB, TX.

AIAA. American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics.

AIEET. Acquisition and Intelligence Experience Exchange Tour.

AMA. Analysis of Material Approaches. Portion of the Functional Solutions Analysis of an AoA that
provides a preliminary assessment of candidate materiel approaches.

AoA. Analysis of Alternatives. An analytical comparison of the operational effectiveness, suitability,
and Life-Cycle cost of alternatives that satisfy established capability needs.

ALC. Air Logistics Center. A base managing the logistics and sustainment needs for warfighting
systems and components. Ogden ALC at Hill AFB, Oklahoma City ALC at Tinker AFB and Warner
Robins ALC at Robins AFB.

ALCP. Acquisition Leadership Challenge Program. 2½-day focused leadership course primarily for
civilian and military acquisition managers sponsored by SAF/AQX with annual calls for nominations.

ALEET. Acquisition and Logistics Experience Exchange Tour.

APB. Acquisition Program Baseline. Prior to any program initiation, DoD 5000.2 requires all
programs establish program goals and associated thresholds for cost, schedule, and performance. The
program manager manages to this baseline.

APDP. Acquisition Professional Development Program. The Air Force’s implementation of the
Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act (DAWIA), established to ensure career development
within designated acquisition, technology, and logistics career fields.

AT&L. Acquisition, Technology and Logistics. 1. The workforce charged with performing
acquisitions work. 2. The Under Secretary executive office charged with managing the AT&L workforce
and making decisions at each milestone decision point for ACAT ID programs.

CAE. Component Acquisition Executive. The Service Acquisition Executive of a Military Department
or the person designated to be the CAE by the Head of a DoD Component other than a Military
Department. For the purposes of DoDD 5000.52, the Head of a DoD Component is the CAE for the DoD
Components that have not designated a CAE. The USD(AT&L) performs this role for the OSD. The
CAEs are responsible for all acquisition functions within their components.

CARD. Cost Analysis Requirements Description. The common description of the technical and
programmatic features of the program that is used by the teams preparing the Program Office (PO),
Component Cost Analysis (CCA), and independent Life Cycle Cost Estimates (LCCEs).

CCA. Clinger-Cohen Act. This act made significant changes to defense acquisition policy, with
provisions incorporated in Title 40 and Title 44 of the United States Code. It requires certification for
MAIS programs to be granted Milestone B approval.

CCB. Configuration (or Change) Control Board. The process designed to manage approved designs
and the implementation of approved changes, not to influence the actual design process. Control is


                                                   4
achieved via the systematic proposal, justification and evaluation of design changes, followed by
structured incorporation of those proposals that are approved.

CDD. Capability Development Document. A document that captures the information necessary to
develop a proposed program(s), normally using an evolutionary acquisition strategy. The CDD outlines
an affordable increment of militarily useful, logistically supportable and technically mature capability.
The CDD supports a Milestone B decision review. See CPD also.

CDE. Civilian Developmental Education. A focused program dedicated to preparing high potential
civilians as part of Total Force Development for the long-term leadership needs of the Air Force. CDE
provides civilian development opportunities that include in residence Professional Military Education
(PME), long term academic and experiential programs.

CDRL. Contract Data Requirements List. A DD Form 1423 list of contract data requirements that are
authorized for a specific acquisition and made a part of the contract.

CFETP. Career Field Education and Training Plan. A comprehensive, multipurpose document that
encapsulates the entire spectrum of training for a career field or specialty. It outlines a logical growth
plan that includes training resources and identifies career field training requirements, eliminates
duplication, and is budget defensible. The plan aids in identifying what education/training should be
accomplished at what point on your way to becoming an Acquisition Manager.

CJCS. Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

CL. Continuous Learning. OSD (AT&L) policy that promotes a philosophy of career-long learning by
AT&L workforce members to promote proficiency and currency. DoD requires each acquisition
workforce member to earn 80 CL points within a two year period (DoDI 5000.66 para. E2.2.8). As a rule
of thumb, one point equates to one hour of course contact time or other event participation. To count for
CL, the training or event must be directly acquisition related. All education and training requirements
specified in the CFETP qualify as acquisition-related continuous learning as defined by the OSD policy.

CLS. Contractor Logistics Support. The performance of maintenance and/or materiel management
functions for a DoD system by a commercial activity.

CMM. Capability Maturity Model. See CMMI (Capability Maturity Model Integration).

CMMI. Capability Maturity Model Integration. A description of the stages through which software
organizations evolve the maturity of their software development processes. The model provides a guide
for selecting process improvement strategies. Originally developed by the DoD Software Engineering
Institute (SEI), the Software CMM (SW-CMM) is the most commonly used in the software engineering
field. A more comprehensive and integrated process model, the Capability Maturity Model Integration
(CMMI), is currently supplanting the SW-CMM.

CoP. Community of Practice.

CORE, or CORE Depot Maintenance. The capability maintained within organic Defense depots to
meet the readiness and sustainability requirements of weapon systems that support the Joint Chiefs of
Staff (JCS) contingency scenario(s).

Core Plus. A training construct designed to advance the DoD AT&L competency management model by
providing a ―roadmap‖ for the development of acquisition workforce members beyond only the minimum
certification standards required to targeted training for their particular job assignment needs.


                                                    5
Core Task. Tasks Air Force specialty functional managers identified as minimum qualification
requirements within an Air Force specialty or duty position. These tasks exemplify the essence of the
career field—the foundation for mission performance.

COTS. Commercial Off-the-shelf. Commercial items that require no unique government modifications
or maintenance over the life cycle of the product to meet the needs of the procuring agency.

CPAR. Contractor Performance Assessment Report. A recorded assessment of a contractor’s
performance, both positive and negative, on a given contract during a specific period of time.

CPD. Capability Production Document. Addresses the production elements specific to a single
increment of an acquisition program. The CPD must be validated and approved before a Milestone C
decision review. The refinement of performance attributes and Key Performance Parameters (KPPs) is
the most significant difference between the Capability Development Document (CDD) and CPD.

Currency. Maintaining proficiency in the acquisition specialty, as demonstrated by meeting DoD and
AF Continuous Learning (CL) standards and performing acquisition duties. See CL.

CWBS. Contract Work Breakdown Structure. A complete WBS for a contract. It includes the DoD-
approved Program WBS extended to the agreed contract reporting level and any discretionary extensions
to lower levels for reporting or other purposes. It includes all the elements for the products (hardware,
software, data, or services) which are the responsibility of the contractor. This comprehensive WBS forms
the framework for the contractor’s management control system.

DACM. Director of Acquisition Career Management. The single point of contact in a component,
designated to act on behalf of the service acquisition executive(s), with authority to manage the integrated
execution and oversight of acquisition workforce education, training and career development. SAF/AQH
is the Air Force DACM, on behalf of the AF Service Acquisition Executives for space and non-space
programs.

DAES. Defense Acquisition Executive Summary. The principal mechanism for tracking programs
between milestone reviews. A DAES report is provided by the Program Manager (PM) of a Major
Defense Acquisition Program (MDAP) to the Under Secretary of Defense (Acquisition, Technology, and
Logistics) (USD (AT&L)) each calendar quarter.

DAU. Defense Acquisition University. Provides mandatory, assignment-specific, and continuing
education courses for military and civilian acquisition personnel within the Department of Defense.

DAWIA. Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act. Signed into law in November 1990 and
updated in 2004. DAWIA requires the Secretary of Defense, acting through the USD (AT&L), to
establish education and training standards, requirements, and courses for the civilian and military
acquisition workforce.

DCAA. Defense Contract Audit Agency. Conducts audit reviews of the contractor’s accounting
system policies and procedures for compliance.

DCMA. Defense Contract Management Agency. Performs the contract administration function.

DFARS. Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement.

DFAS. Defense Finance and Accounting Service. DoD’s accounting firm.



                                                     6
DISAM. Defense Institute of Security Assistance Management. Provides professional education,
research, and support to advance U.S. foreign policy through Security Assistance and Cooperation.

DMSMS. Diminishing Manufacturing Sources and Material Shortages. The loss, or impending loss,
of the last known manufacturer or supplier of raw materials and other critical components for production
or repair parts.

DoD or DOD. Department of Defense.

DOTMLPF. Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education,
Personnel, and Facilities (DoD).

DPEO. Deputy Program Executive Officer. A military or civilian official who has responsibility for
directing several Major Defense Acquisition Programs (MDAPs) with a PEO. See PEO.

DPM. Deputy Program Manager. An acquisition manager designated with responsibility for and
authority to accomplish program objectives in support of the designated program manager. See PM.

DSCA. Defense Security Cooperation Agency. The DSCA leads, directs and manages security
cooperation programs and resources to support national security objectives.

DT. Developmental Test; Developmental Testing.

DT. Development Teams. Teams of senior leaders who discuss and plan the career paths of civilians
and officers in the acquisition workforce, in order to help them meet Total Force Development objectives.

DT&E. Developmental Test and Evaluation. 1. Any testing used to assist in the development and
maturation of products, product elements, or manufacturing or support processes. 2. Any engineering-
type test used to verify status of technical progress, verify that design risks are minimized, substantiate
achievement of contract technical performance, and certify readiness for initial Operational Testing (OT).

EMA. Expectation Management Agreement. A document containing anticipated cost, schedule and
performance of a system under acquisition, jointly signed by the user and the acquirer. Developed in an
effort to keep requirements constant while a program manager focuses on delivering the expected system
within cost and schedule. Changes to the EMA must be made at the General Officer level and should be
updated annually in conjunction with the PMD. The EMA has recently changed to the Program
Management Agreement (PMA).

Enhancement Training. OSD (AT&L) policy requires that all acquisition workforce members
accumulate 80 hours of acquisition-related continuous learning (CL) credit every two years to maintain
professional currency. See CL.

EVMS. Earned Value Management System. Industry developed set of 32 standards adopted for use
by DoD in 1996 for evaluation of contractor management systems.

EWI. Education With Industry. A competitively-selected non-degree program with industry-leading
companies for Air Force civilians and military officers to gain best practices from industry.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer, paper text, interactive video or courseware, and
other necessary means to supplement training.




                                                    7
FAR. Federal Acquisition Regulation. The regulation for use by federal executive agencies for
acquisition of supplies and services with appropriated funds. The DoD supplement to the FAR is called
the DFARS (Defense FAR Supplement).

FDO. Fee Determining Official. Approves the membership of the award fee board and makes the final
decision on the amount of incentive fee the contractor has earned.

FMS. Foreign Military Sales. That portion of U.S. security assistance authorized by the Foreign
Assistance Act (FAA) of 1961, and the Army Export Control Act (AECA). The recipient provides
reimbursement for defense articles and services transferred from the United States.

FOC. Full Operational Capability. A date when all of a weapon, item of equipment, or system
scheduled for a modernization effort are fully modified, delivered, and performing operational missions,
or when full organizational support established for hardware, software, and support equipment, either
organically or contractor provided, including identified and established Mobility Readiness Spare
Packages (MRSP).

FY. Fiscal Year. For the United States Government (USG), the period covering 1 October to 30
September (12 months).

GFE. Government Furnished Equipment. See Government Furnished Property.

GFI. Government Furnished Information.

GFM. Government Furnished Materiel. Government property which may be incorporated into, or
attached to, an end item to be delivered under a contract or which may be consumed in the performance of
a contract. Also may be listed as GFE, GFP, GFI, etc, for equipment, property, and information.

GFP. Government Furnished Property. Property in the possession of or acquired directly by the
government, and subsequently delivered to or otherwise made available to the contractor.

IBR. Integraded Baseline Review. A joint assessment of the Performance Measurement Baseline
(PMB) conducted by the government program manager and the contractor.

ICA. Independent Cost Analysis. An analysis of Program Office Estimates (POE) and/or Component
Life Cycle Cost Estimates (LCCEs) conducted by an impartial body disassociated from the management
of the program.

ICD. Initial Capabilities Document. Documents the need for a materiel approach to a specific
capability gap derived from an initial Analysis of Materiel Approaches (AMA) executed by the
operational user and, as required, an independent analysis of materiel alternatives. The ICD defines the
gap in terms of the functional area, the relevant range of military operations, desired effects and time. It
also summarizes the results of Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership, Personnel, and
Facilities (DOTMLPF) analysis and describes why nonmaterial changes alone have been judged
inadequate in fully providing the capability. Formerly Mission Needs Statement (MNS).

ICD. Interface Control Document. A requirements document indicating all the parameters for the
successful interface with a given system or subsystem

ICE. Independent Cost Estimate (ICE) A Life Cycle Cost Estimate (LCCE) for Acquisition Category
(ACAT) I programs prepared by an office or other entity that is not under the supervision, direction, or
control of the Military Department, Defense Agency, or other Component of the DoD that is directly
responsible for carrying out the development or acquisition of the program.

                                                     8
ICS. Interim Contractor Support. Temporary contractor support that allows the Service to defer
investment in all or part of the support resources (spares, Technical Data (TD), support equipment,
training equipment, etc.) while the organic capability is being phased in.

IDE. Intermediate Development Education. Educational opportunities inside and outside the AF to
include but not limited to Air Command and Staff College, and identified advanced academic degree
programs. See PME.

IDE. Integrated Data Environment.

ILS. Integrated Logistics Support. Comprised of ten elements: Manpower, Personnel, Maintenance,
Supportability, Systems Engineering, Data Management, Supply, Transportation, Configuration Mgmt,
and Training. ILS term is being replaced with acquisition logistics information.

IMP. Integrated Master Plan. An event-driven plan to deliver a product; documents the key events,
accomplishments and criteria in the development, production and/or modification of a system.

IMS. Integrated Master Schedule. Expansion of IMP in detailed schedule format.

IOC. Initial Operational Capability. The first attainment of the capability to employ effectively a
weapon, item of equipment, or system of approved specific characteristics with the appropriate number,
type, and mix of trained and equipped personnel necessary to operate, maintain, and support the system.

IQT. Initial Qualification Training. A formal resident course, which results in award of the entry skill
level, i.e., the Air Force Fundamentals of Acquisition Management (AFFAM) course.

IPM. Intermediate Project Management. AFIT-based two-week course attended by military and
civilian acquisition managers between 30-36 months of acquisition management experience.

IPT. Integrated Product Team. Team composed of representatives from appropriate functional
disciplines working together to build successful programs, identify and resolve issues, and make sound
and timely recommendations to facilitate decision-making.

IT. Information Technology. Any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment, that
is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement, control, display,
switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information by the executive agency. IT
includes computers, ancillary equipment, software, firmware and similar procedures, services (including
support services), and related resources, including National Security Systems (NSSs). It does not include
any equipment that is acquired by a federal contractor incidental to a federal contract. (CJCSI 6212.01C)
See National Security System.

J&A. Justification and Approval. A document required by the FAR that justifies and obtains approval
for contract solicitations that use other than Full and Open Competition.

JCIDS. Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System. Supports the Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff (CJCS) and the Joint Requirements Oversight Council (JROC) in identifying, assessing,
and prioritizing joint military capability needs as required by law.

JCS. Joint Chiefs of Staff.

JROC. Joint Requirements Oversight Council. Applies joint perspective to military requirements;
chaired by the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
                                                   9
KPP. Key Performance Parameter. Those attributes or characteristics of a system that are considered
critical or essential to the development of an effective military capability and those attributes that make a
significant contribution to the key characteristics as defined in the Joint Operations Concept. KPPs are
validated by the Joint Requirements Oversight Council (JROC) for JROC Interest documents, and by the
DoD Component for Joint Integration or Independent documents.

LCC. Life-Cycle Cost. The total cost to the government of acquisition and ownership of that system
over its useful life. It includes the cost of development, acquisition, operations, and support (to include
manpower), and where applicable, disposal. Also called Total Ownership Cost (TOC).

LCCE. Life Cycle Cost Estimate.

LCMP. Life Cycle Management Plan. This document integrates both the acquisition and sustainment
strategies from concept development to disposal and provides all product support requirements of a
supported system, subsystem, or major end item. The LCMP lays out full life cycle product support
strategies; and maximizes system effectiveness from the perspective of the warfighter.

LOA. Letter of Offer and Agreement.

LOR. Letter of Request.

M&S. Modeling and Simulation. Provides virtual duplication of products and processes, and
represents those products or processes in readily available and operationally valid environments.

MAIS. Major Automated Information System. An Automated Information System (AIS) program
that is: 1) designated by the ASD(NII) as a MAIS; or 2) estimated to require program costs in any single
year in excess of $32 million (FY 2000 constant dollars), total program costs in excess of $126 million
(FY 2000 constant dollars), or total Life Cycle Cost (LCC) in excess of $378 million (FY 2000 constant
dollars). MAISs do not include Information Technology (IT) that involves equipment that is an integral
part of a weapon system or is an acquisition of services program.

MAR. Monthly Activity Report. Monthly cost, schedule and performance report required by higher
headquarters.

MDA. Milestone Decision Authority. Designated individual with overall responsibility for a program.
The MDA shall have the authority to approve entry of an acquisition program into the next phase of the
acquisition process and shall be accountable for cost, schedule, and performance reporting to higher
authority, including congressional reporting.

MDAP. Major Defense Acquisition Program. An ACAT 1 program; estimated by the Under Secretary
of Defense (Acquisition, Technology and Logistics) (USD(AT&L) ) to require eventual expenditure for
research, development, test, and evaluation of more than $365 million (fiscal year (FY) 2000 constant
dollars) or procurement of more than $2.19 billion (FY 2000 constant dollars).

MFM. MAJCOM Functional Manager.

MNS. Mission Needs Statement. Obsolete, see Initial Capabilities Documents (ICDs).

MOA. Memorandum of Agreement. 1. In contract administration, an agreement between a Program
Manager (PM) and a Contract Administration Office (CAO), establishing the scope of responsibility of
the CAO with respect to the Earned Value Management System (EVMS) criteria surveillance functions


                                                     10
and objectives, and/or other contract administration functions on a specific contract or program. 2. Any
written agreement in principle as to how a program will be administered.

MOU. Memorandum of Understanding. De facto agreement that is generally recognized by all
partners as binding even if no legal claim could be based on the rights and obligations delineated therein.

MRSP. Mobility Readiness Spare Package.

NR-KPP. Net Ready-Key Performance Parameter.

NSS. National Security System. Any telecommunications or information system operated by the
Department of Defense (DoD), the function, operation, or use of which involves 1) intelligence activities,
2) cryptologic activities related to national security, 3) the command and control of military forces, 4)
equipment that is an integral part of a weapons system, or 5) criticality to the direct fulfillment of military
or intelligence missions. Subsection 5 in the preceding sentence does not include procurement of
automatic data processing equipment or services to be used for routine administrative and business
applications (including payroll, finance, logistics, and personnel management applications). (CJSCI
3170.01E)

Nunn-McCurdy breach. For ACAT I programs, a Unit Cost Report (UCR) breach that shows
significant cost growth to its original or current baseline estimate requiring Congressional notification.

OJT. On-the-job Training.

OPR. Office of Primary Responsibility.

ORD. Operational Requirements Document. Obsolete, see Capability Development Document
(CDD) and Capability Production Document (CPD).

OSD. Office of the Secretary of Defense.

OSS&E. Operational, Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness. The requirement that a system or end-
item be of acceptable risk to life, health, property, and environment, can be placed satisfactorily in field
use, and accomplish the mission.

OT. Operational Test; Operational Testing.

PCA. Permanent Change of Assignment

PBL. Performance Based Logistics. The preferred sustainment strategy for weapon system product
support that employs the purchase of support as an integrated, affordable performance package designed
to optimize system readiness. PBL meets performance goals for a weapon system through a support
structure based on long-term performance agreements with clear lines of authority and responsibility.

PCE. Parametric Cost Estimate.

PCO. Procuring Contracting Officer. The individual authorized to enter into contracts for supplies
and services on behalf of the government by sealed bids or negotiations, and who is responsible for
overall procurement under the contract.

PDE. Primary Developmental Education. Educational opportunities inside the AF to include but not
limited to Squadron Officer School. See PME.


                                                      11
PDMSS. Program Depot Maintenance Scheduling System.

PDOC. Procurement documentation. Part of the documentation required annually, specifically
tabulating and describing procurement dollars, to justify the President’s budget to Congress.

PEO. Program Executive Officer. A military or civilian official who has responsibility for directing
several Major Defense Acquisition Programs (MDAPs) or Major Automated Information Systems
(MAIS) and for assigned major system and non-major system acquisition programs.

PESHE. Programmatic Environment, Safety and Occupational Health Evaluation.

PM. Program Management. The process whereby a single leader exercises centralized authority and
responsibility for planning, organizing, staffing, controlling, and leading the combined efforts of
participating/assigned civilian and military personnel and organizations, for the management of a specific
defense acquisition program or programs, throughout the system life cycle.

PM. Program Manager. An acquisition manager designated with responsibility for and authority to
accomplish program objectives for development, production, and sustainment to meet the user’s
operational needs. The PM shall be accountable for credible cost, schedule, and performance reporting to
the Milestone Decision Authority (MDA). See SPM and PGM.

PMA. Program Management Agreement. A document containing anticipated cost, schedule and
performance of a system under acquisition, jointly signed by the user and the acquirer. Developed in an
effort to keep requirements constant while a program manager focuses on delivering the expected system
within cost and schedule. Changes to the PMA must be made at the General Officer level and should be
updated annually in conjunction with the PMD. The PMA has replaced the Expectation Management
Agreement (EMA).

PMB. Performance Measurement Baseline. A time-phased budget plan for accomplishing work,
against which contract performance is measured.

PMBOK. Program Management Institute’s Program Management Body of Knowledge.

PMD. Program Management Directive. The official Headquarters (HQ) U.S. Air Force document
used to direct acquisition responsibilities to the appropriate Air Force major commands, agencies,
program executive offices (PEOs), or designated acquisition commander/director.

PME. Professional Military Education. PME schools prepare students from the Air Force, its sister
services and allied nations for more responsible positions as they progress through their careers.
Emphasis in these programs includes leadership, military doctrine and aerospace power. Link to Air
University for additional info: http://www.au.af.mil/au/

PMI. Program Management Institute. Non-governmental organization that advocates standards and
provides education for the program management career field.

PMR. Program Management Review. A scheduled or ad hoc review of a program’s cost, schedule and
performance.

PO. Program Office. The office of the Program Manager (PM) and the Government team responsible
for program management. The central point for a program with industry, government agencies, and other
activities participating in the system acquisition process.

POC. Point of Contact. Organizational representative; primary interface on an issue.
                                                   12
POE. Program Office Estimate. A detailed estimate of acquisition and ownership costs normally
required for high-level decisions. The estimate is performed early in the program and serves as the basis
for all subsequent tracking and auditing purposes.

PPBE. Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution.

PGM. Product Group Manager. Individual ultimately responsible for decision and resources for
overall product group management. The single face to the customer responsible for all cost, schedule,
performance aspects of the product group along with the sustainment elements.

PMO. Program Management Office.

PRR. Production Readiness Review. A formal examination of a program to determine if the design is
ready for production, production engineering problems have been resolved and the producer has
accomplished adequate planning for the production phase.

PWS. Performance Work Statement. A statement of work for performance-based acquisitions that
describes the required results in clear, specific and objective terms with measurable outcomes.

Qualification Training. Training designed to qualify an acquisition manager on tasks identified in Part
II of this CFETP.

R&D. Research and Development.

RAA. Required Assets Available. The set of equipment and procedures (to include fully trained
personnel) to effectively meet initial operational capability (IOC). The RAA date is the date by which
these assets are due to be delivered to the warfighter.

RAM. Reliability, Availability, and Maintainability. Requirement imposed on acquisition systems to
insure they are operationally ready for use when needed, will successfully perform assigned functions,
and can be economically operated and maintained within the scope of logistics concepts and policies.

RCM. Requirements Correlation Matrix.

RDOC. RDT&E Documentation. Part of the documentation required annually, specifically tabulating
and describing RDT&E dollars, to justify the President’s budget to Congress.

RDT&E. Research, Development, Test and Evaluation. 1. Activities for the development of a new
system or to expand the performance of fielded systems. 2. An appropriation.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and
equipment, that precludes training from being delivered.

RFP. Request for Proposal. A solicitation used in negotiated acquisition to communicate government
requirements to prospective contractor and to solicit proposals.

RM. Risk Management. Plans and actions taken to identify, assess, mitigate, and continuously track,
control, and document program risks.

RMP. Risk Management Plan. A document that records the results of the risk planning process.



                                                   13
RTO. Responsible Test Organization. Test organization involved from the very beginning; key
member of Integrated Test Team that develops the T&E strategy, writes the TEMP, etc. Performs
government DT&E.

S&T. Science and Technology. Consists of projects in basic research, applied research, and Advanced
Technology Development (ATD).

SA. Security Assistance. Materiel and services provided by the United States to eligible allies as
specified by the Congress.

SAE. Service Acquisition Executive. See CAE.

SAMP. Single Acquisition Management Plan. Obsolete, see LCMP.

SAR. Selected Acquisition Report. Standard, comprehensive, summary status report of a MDAP ACAT
I required for periodic submission to Congress. It includes key cost, schedule, and technical information.

SATAF. Site Activation Task Force. The organization required to bring a program, system, equipment,
or site to operational readiness.

SCP. Service Cost Position. The Air Force’s coordinated cost estimate.

SDE. Senior Developmental Education. Educational opportunities inside and outside the AF to include
but not limited to Air War College, National Defense University, Industrial College of the Armed Forces,
Army War College and Naval War College. See PME.

SE. Systems Engineering. A comprehensive, iterative Technical Management process that includes
translating operational requirements into configured systems, integrating the technical inputs of the entire
design team, managing interfaces, characterizing and managing technical risk, transitioning technology
from the technology base into program specific efforts, and verifying that designs meet operational needs.

SEP. System Engineering Plan. A description of the program’s overall technical approach including
processes, resources, metrics, applicable performance incentives, and the timing, conduct, and success
criteria of technical reviews.

SEMP. System Engineering Management Plan. Obsolete, see SEP.

SLEC-P. Space Lift Exchange Career Program. SLEC-P combines a specific Spacelift Air Force
Institute of Technology Education With Industry (EWI) assignment and a Spacelift-focused crossover
follow-on assignment.

SMART. System Metric and Reporting Tool. A web-based tool that provides a single interface for
program managers to provide up-to-date program information to senior acquisition executives, SPDs, and
other authorized individuals for insight into program and portfolio performance and health.

SOLE. Society of Logistics Engineers.

SOO. Statement of Objectives. A Government-prepared document incorporated into the solicitation
that states the overall performance objectives. It is used in solicitations when the Government intends to
provide the maximum flexibility to each offeror to propose an innovative approach.

SORAP. Source of Repair Assignment Process. The process used for determining whether a depot
maintenance workload will be performed by an organic or a contract source of repair.
                                                    14
SOS. Squadron Officer School. The second course in the Air Force officer PME system. See PDE.

SOW. Statement of Work. The portion of a contract which establishes and defines all non-specification
requirements for contractor's efforts either directly or with the use of specific cited documents.
SPM. System Program Manager. Designated individual with responsibility for and authority to
accomplish program objectives for development, production and sustainment to meet the user’s
operational needs. For platforms/programs in the acquisition phase, the SPM is accountable for cost,
schedule and performance and is the DoD 5000.1 Program Manager. Depending on the phase of the
system (acquisition or sustainment), the SPM with normally reside at either a Product Center or an Air
Logistics Center.

SPO. System Program Office. Obsolete term, see Program Office (PO).

SSA. Source Selection Authority. The official designated to direct the source selection process, approve
the selection plan, select the source(s), and announce contract award.

SSEB. Source Selection Evaluation Board. A group of military and/or government civilian personnel,
representing functional and technical disciplines, that is charged with evaluating proposals and
developing summary facts and findings during source selection.

STEM. Science, Technology, Engineering and Math.

SW. Software.

T&E. Test and Evaluation.

TD. Test Director.

TDS. Technology Development Strategy. The Technology Development Strategy focuses specifically
on the activities of the Technology Development Phase. Where feasible, the Technology Development
Strategy should also discuss activities associated with the post-program-initiation phases of the planned
acquisition.

TEMP. Test and Evaluation Master Plan. Documents the overall structure and objectives of the Test
and Evaluation (T&E) program.

TO. Technical Order. Mandatory military orders that describe required actions or procedures, issued in
the name of the Air Force Chief of Staff and by order of the Secretary of the Air Force.

TOC. Total Ownership Cost.

Total Force. All collective Air Force components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian elements) of the
United States Air Force.

TPM. Technical Performance Measurement. Describes all the activities undertaken by the
government to obtain design status beyond that treating schedule and cost. A TPM manager is defined as
the product design assessment which estimates, through tests, the values of essential performance
parameters of the current design of Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) product elements. It forecasts the
values to be achieved through the planned technical program effort, measures differences between
achieved values and those allocated to the product element by the Systems Engineering Process (SEP),
and determines the impact of these differences on system effectiveness.


                                                   15
TSP. Transition Support Plan

Upgrade Training. Mandatory training, which leads to the award of a higher certification or AFSC.

USAF. United States Air Force.

USD (AT&L). Under Secretary of Defense (Acquisition, Technology and Logistics).

WBS. Work Breakdown Structure. An organized method to break down a project into logical
subdivisions or subprojects at lower and lower levels of details.

What-if Drill. Query on hypothetical issue, typically with short suspense. Usually begins with ―what
would be the impact if your program funds were cut X%?‖




                                                 16
                                              PART I
                               Section A - GENERAL INFORMATION

1.      Purpose and Use of the CFETP. This CFETP provides information for Air Force Acquisition
Managers, career field functional managers, commanders, directors, supervisors, trainers, and the
technical training centers use to plan, develop, manage and conduct a robust career field training program.
This plan identifies initial skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced, and continuation training. The CFETP
has several purposes:

1.1      Serves as a management tool to plan, develop, manage, and conduct a career field training
program. Also, it is used to ensure established training is provided at the appropriate point in an
acquisition manager’s career.

1.2      Identifies and recommends training for each phase of an acquisition manager’s career.

1.3      Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and provides the
training medium.

1.4      Identifies major resource constraints that impact implementation of the desired career field
training program.

2.       Roles and Responsibilities.

2.1.     The Air Force Acquisition Management Career Field Manager (CFM) will:

2.1.1. Maintain the CFETP. Recommended changes to the CFETP should be forwarded to SAF/AQH
(saf.aqh.apdp@pentagon.af.mil).

2.1.2. Host an annual review of the CFETP and acquisition management formal training with
MAJCOM Acquisition Management (63AX and 1101) Functional Managers and AFIT to ensure currency
and accuracy.

2.1.3. Ensure adequate resources are available to provide supervisors of acquisition managers initial
and follow-on training in the use and maintenance of the CFETP.

2.2.     AFIT will:

2.2.1. Develop/Revise formal resident and exportable training based upon requirements established by
the users and documented in this CFETP.

2.2.2. Maintain and update AFFAM and IPM in conjunction with SAF/AQH and MAJCOM Functional
Managers.

2.2.3.   Coordinate with SAF/AQH for resource requirements and develop and present course material.

2.3.   The MAJCOM functional manager will ensure training programs complement the CFETP
mandatory initial skills and upgrade requirements and ensure that identified requirements can be satisfied
by AFIT and DAU unit resident training, or exportable courseware/courses. Recommended changes to
DAU or AFIT training shall be forwarded to SAF/AQH.

2.4.    Unit leadership, to include Wing/Group/Squadron commanders and Directorate/Division/Branch
directors and chiefs, along with immediate supervisors will ensure acquisition managers accomplish
                                                    17
career field training and familiarization programs as specified in this CFETP. Commanders/Directors will
monitor the effectiveness of acquisition management training, notify MAJCOMs of formal training
shortfalls to ensure timely correction, and develop a solid orientation program using the CFETP to ensure
the best possible learning environment for acquisition managers.

2.5.     Supervisors will:

2.5.1. Have a working knowledge of the CFETP and ensure individuals understand how to use the
CFETP, know their responsibilities, and understand how they will work together to accomplish the tasks
herein and deepen their knowledge of acquisition management.

2.5.2. Ensure acquisition managers attend required training as indicated in Table 1, Acquisition
Manager Training Flow (Accessions), found in Part I, Section B. Supervisors will certify the acquisition
manager’s progression by documenting course completion on the core unit training tasks in the CFETP.

2.5.2.1. Ideally, new 63A1 military and 1101 civilian accessions should be scheduled for and attend
AFFAM prior to or shortly after reaching their first assignment. If this is not the case, contact
AFPC/DPPAO (Directorate of Personnel Program Management, Personnel Procurement and
Development Division) to enroll the individual in this mandatory course.

2.5.2.2. Individuals cross flowing into acquisition management are scheduled for AFFAM by
AFPC/DPASA (a division of AFPC/DPA, Directorate of Assignments). Those cross flowing from other
acquisition career fields with three or more years of acquisition experience are exempt from the AFFAM
requirement. Instead, they should attend IPM 301 while they are pursuing their Level II PM certification
requirements. IPM is scheduled through the individual’s office (or AFIT NOW). See Part II, Section A.

2.5.3.   Ensure completion of core unit training tasks found in Part II, Section B.

2.5.3.1. Review CFETP with each individual within 30 days of assignment and bi-annually to coincide
with the normal feedback cycle. Plot a path to complete all core (designated by *) tasks within 36
months, or address those that must wait until next assignment.


2.5.3.2. Seek support from outside organizations, such as your local Acquisition Center of Excellence
(ACE) office, for experiential opportunities that are not available within your organization (i.e. source
selection, IBR, SORAP).

2.5.3.3. Network with other supervisors to identify local opportunities to fulfill core unit training tasks
that may not be available on your program.

2.5.4.   Augment core unit training tasks as required with the following:

2.5.4.1. Non-core tasks included in Part II, location/Center specific core/non-core training/tasks, Section
B via AF Form 797, Job Qualification Standard Continuation, Command JQS, or other similar method
such as electronic documentation.

2.5.4.2. Compliance with mobility requirements IAW with governing AFIs.

2.5.5.   Provide feedback on the CFETP and on acquisition management education.

2.5.5.1. The CFETP will be reviewed annually and updated as required. It must remain a current,
responsive and effective tool for educating and guiding acquisition managers. Through use of the
CFETP, the capabilities of the career field will increase and the CFETP and related training courses
                                                     18
should constantly be evaluated and improved. Provide feedback and recommendations concerning the
effectiveness and relevance of the CFETP. Recommendations should include specific suggestions for
additions, deletions, and/or modifications. Submit comments to SAF/AQH.

2.5.5.2. AFIT will solicit feedback following student graduations from AFFAM, Intermediate Project
Management (IPM) and other program management-related classes via surveys. Feedback will keep the
education focused on the needs of the program offices.

2.6.     The Acquisition Manager will complete the mandatory training courses and core unit training
tasks listed herein, documenting their training completion in accord with Part II. Specific instructions are
described in Part II, Section B.

2.7.     Cross flow acquisition managers will maintain a 63AX CFETP while in the 63AX cross flow and
accomplish all core tasks identified in this CFETP, as well as locally identified mandatory items. All
cross flows will use the ―First Acquisition Assignment‖ unit training tasks.

3.      Coordination and Approval. The Career Field Manager for the Acquisition Management
Career Field, SAF/AQH, is the approval authority for the CFETP.




                                                    19
                                          PART I
                Section B - CAREER FIELD PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION

1.      Purpose. This section provides information for career field functional managers, commanders,
directors, supervisors, and trainers to plan career field progression in the civilian and military Acquisition
Management specialty.

2.      Acquisition Management Specialty Description: This career field is comprised of civilians in
the 1101 occupational series assigned to positions APDP coded ―A‖ and military officers assigned to
positions with Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) 63AX. Entry AFSC 63A1 and Qualified AFSC 63A3
are Acquisition Management Officers. The 63A4 AFSC is an Acquisition Management Staff Officer.

2.1.     Specialty Summary. Manages defense acquisition programs covering every aspect of the
acquisition process, including integrating engineering, , program control, test and deployment,
configuration management, production and manufacturing, quality assurance, and logistics support.
Performs functions essential to acquisition programs involving major defense acquisition programs and
other major systems or subsystems. Performs acquisition support roles. Related DoD Occupational
Group: 280400.

2.2.    Acquisition Management Duties and Responsibilities.

2.2.1. Plans and organizes acquisition management activities. Plans, organizes, and develops program
management techniques, and establishes internal controls to manage acquisition programs and support
functions. Determines organizational structure, personnel, training needs, and security requirements.
Establishes performance standards, work schedules, and priorities. Develops, reviews, coordinates, and
executes acquisition management plans to support daily operations, contingencies, and war fighting
capabilities.

2.2.2. Directs acquisition management activities. Supervises, manages, and administers all aspects of
acquisition programs. Includes direction and participation to establish military, economic, and technical
bases for acquisition programs in conceptual phases and throughout the validation, engineering and
manufacturing, production, and deployment phases of an acquisition life cycle. Manages cost, schedules,
performance, and supportability of acquisition programs, discrete portions of programs, or support
activities.

2.2.3. Coordinates acquisition management activities. Advises commanders and staff on status and
progress of acquisition programs. Coordinates with commanders , staff, and units to develop and execute
acquisition program plans and schedules. Serves as project manager having cost, schedule, logistics, and
engineering responsibilities for a discrete portion of a program, either hardware or software. Manages
systems integration activities, including identifying and resolving subsystem, hardware and software
interface, or logistics problems to support optimum system design. Performs integrated logistics support
engineering and planning tasks.

2.2.4. Performs program management functions. Manages tasks associated with engineering, program
control, configuration management, test, manufacturing and quality assurance, and integrated logistics
support. Responsive to user environment, concerns, and requirements. Coordinates with users to translate
operational requirements and system design into definitive subsystem and equipment acquisition
programs. Manages program progress to ensure availability of operable and supportable subsystems and
equipment. Makes changes to acquisition program to achieve desired outcomes.

3.      Skill/Career Progression and Certification. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP
will ensure acquisition managers receive appropriate training at designated points in their career. The
following narrative and the Acquisition Management Training Flow (Table 1) identify the training career
                                                     20
path and define the training required. Acquisition Management career field training is a combination of
OSD-mandated certification training and additional Core Plus recommended training for specific types of
assignments that support Continuous Learning/Currency requirements; Air Force-specific training (shown
in Table 2); unit training tasks included in Part II, Section B of this document; and statutory assignment-
specific training requirements. The Defense AT&L Workforce Education, Training and Career
Development Program, which implements the objectives of the Defense Acquisition Workforce
Improvement Act (DAWIA) across the DoD components, mandates certification requirements for
Acquisition Management positions as well as accomplishment of statutorily-mandated assignment-
specific education, training and experience requirements for Program Managers, Deputy Program
Managers and Program Executive Officers. DAWIA is implemented in the Air Force through the
Acquisition Professional Development Program (APDP). The APDP certification process reflects the
education, training, and duty experience gained by the acquisition manager through a formal program.
3.1.     Entry Level (years 1-3). Initial acquisition management assignments should establish and build
depth of knowledge and technical expertise within the career field. Commanders/Directors/Supervisors
will provide ample opportunities to gain this experience while exposing new acquisition managers to the
entire mission of the unit. Unit training tasks in Part II, Section B, Initial Acquisition Assignment, are
focused on acquiring knowledge and beginning to demonstrate competency in a host of
acquisition/program management areas. Individuals should strive to complete the initial assignment
CFETP core requirements within their first acquisition assignment or 36 months.

3.1.1. Basic Acquisition and Financial Management Occupational Badge. Officers are granted the
63A1 AFSC upon their initial acquisition management assignment. The career field’s occupational badge
is the Acquisition and Financial Management Occupational Badge. Approval to wear the basic badge is
granted following completion of AFFAM.

3.1.2. APDP Level I certification in program management is granted after completion of mandatory
training and accrual of one year of acquisition experience. APDP training requirements are outlined in
Table 1.

3.1.3. Typical entry level grades are GS-7/9/11 (or equivalent) and O-1/O-2, although a good portion of
more senior civilians and officers also cross over into the career field from other Air Force occupational
series and specialties, or from outside the Air Force, some with more acquisition experience.

3.1.4. Qualified AFSC. After 24 months of coded acquisition experience, officers should have
completed the requirements for upgrade as listed in Part I, Section C. AFPC will automatically process
the 63A3 AFSC upgrade after 24 months in an acquisition management position. The training
requirements and unit training tasks in this CFETP are designed and timed to provide meaning to this
AFSC upgrade.

3.1.5. APDP Level II certification in program management is granted after completion of mandatory
training and accrual of two years of acquisition coded experience, at least one of which is in program
management. APDP training requirements are outlined in Table 2.

3.2.     Intermediate Level (years 4-10). Acquisition managers should seek to gain additional depth in
their field but may also begin to broaden their breadth of knowledge, experience, and expertise. Career-
broadening opportunities should be considered to increase an acquisition manager’s overall professional
development and career progression by pursuing assignments in operational exchange tours (e.g., space,
intelligence, maintenance) or related acquisition functional fields (e.g., test, systems engineering,
financial management, contracting, logistics). Opportunities are also given each year to officers and
civilians for the Education with Industry (EWI) program, a 10-month competitively-selected non-degree
program with industry-leading companies.         Check with your supervisor whether additional career


                                                    21
broadening is right for you. Two out of the first three assignments normally should be acquisition
management assignments. Back-to-back career broadening assignments are strongly discouraged.

3.2.1. Unit training tasks. The supervisor will provide leadership and decision-making opportunities to
enhance oral and written skills. Individuals will gain depth by completing the recommended unit training
tasks in Part II, Section B. In addition, members must maintain their mobility readiness IAW with their
Unit Deployment Manager.

3.2.2. Mentoring/Program team leadership. As an O-3/O-4 or GS 12/13 (or equivalent), the acquisition
manager is expected to nurture new acquisition managers in their career development. Use of the CFETP
is mandatory and should facilitate interaction. Additionally, upon reaching this grade, individuals should
be given and take on increasing leadership responsibilities in their work areas.

3.2.2.1. The Acquisition Leadership Challenge Program (ALCP) was launched in FY07 to provide
concentrated leadership training to both the intermediate and senior acquisition management workforce,
civilian and military. This 2½ day course helps students assess their own strengths and weaknesses, and
develop their preferred leadership methods. SAF/AQH announces ALCP course opportunities and how
to apply.

3.2.3. Acquisition managers need to maintain professional currency by earning at least 80 Continuous
Learning (CL) points every two years to maintain proficiency. Part II, Section D – Enhancement and
Currency, lists a number of available courses as does DAU’s Core Plus development guides in addition to
local opportunities.

3.2.4. Senior Acquisition and Financial Management Occupational Badge. Award of the Senior badge
occurs after seven years in the specialty.

3.2.5. APDP Level III certification in program management is granted after completion of mandatory
training and accrual of four years of acquisition coded experience, two of which are in a program office,
and one of those in a position with cost, schedule and performance responsibilities. The quota for seats in
PMT 352B, the capstone class for PM Level III certification, is limited by the number of PM Level III
positions. This limitation can delay an individual’s ability to achieve PM Level III certification if not
assigned to a PM Level III position (Priority 1 students). Individuals not on a PM Level III position may
attend PMT 352B as a Priority 2 or 3 student as opening allow. APDP training requirements are outlined
in Table 2.

3.3.    Staff and Senior Level (beyond 10 years). The acquisition manager will continue to broaden
expertise through leadership and staff assignments. For critical acquisition positions available to Lt Cols
or GS-14 (or equivalent) civilians and above, there are additional statutory requirements in order to
manage ACAT I/II programs (see paragraph 5.12).

3.4.    Acquisition Corps. The Acquisition Corps is intended to be a pool of highly qualified members
of the Acquisition Workforce from which Critical Acquisition Positions (CAPs) are filled. The
Acquisition Corps is comprised of those persons who have met the grade, education, training, and
experience standards prescribed by DAWIA and implementing regulations, and who have been granted
admission to the Acquisition Corps by the DACM.

3.4.1. For the military, qualifications of officers selected for the Acquisition Corps are to be such that
those officers are expected, as a group, to be promoted at a rate not less than the rate for all Air Force line
officers on average. This statutory requirement does not mean Acquisition Corps members are given
special treatment, but that on average, the quality of their records meets or exceeds that of other line
officers.


                                                      22
3.4.2. New entrants to the Acquisition Corps must meet all Acquisition Corps requirements and be a Lt
Col (select), GS-14 (or equivalent), or above. Supervisory personnel meeting Acquisition Corps
requirements who are selected for assignment to a CAP will be granted Acquisition Corps membership.
Such workforce members are eligible for Acquisition Corps membership after reaching Level II APDP
certification in any functional discipline (including acquisition management), accumulating 4 years of
acquisition experience and meeting education requirements (see paragraph 3.4.4.).

3.4.2.1. Acquisition Corps membership is automated for officers and performed semi-annually.

3.4.2.2. Civilians assigned to GS-13 (or equivalent) and above APDP coded positions must request a
review and update for Acquisition Corps data elements once eligibility requirements are met. As part of
this process, civilians must also request a manual review of the education requirement (see paragraph
3.4.4.) by submitting a request to their civilian personnel flight (CPF).

3.4.3. Acquisition professionals must demonstrate appropriate professional and/or military standards in
order to qualify for and remain in the Acquisition Corps. Any military member having an Unfavorable
Information File (UIF) will not be considered for, and will be disqualified and removed from, the
Acquisition Corps. Individuals should also maintain professional currency, and continue to pursue
education, training and development of their experience.

3.4.4. DAWIA Education Requirements. DAWIA requires completion of a baccalaureate degree in
order to become an Acquisition Corps member. In addition, individuals are required to complete
semester credit hours in specified disciplines:

3.4.4.1. In 24 semester credit hours (or the equivalent) from among the following disciplines: accounting,
business finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, organization
and management, and quantitative methods. (Note: USAF Academy graduates meet the 24 semester hour
education criteria on the basis of the core educational curriculum).

3.4.4.2. Or, 24 semester credit hours (or the equivalent) in the person's acquisition career field and 12
semester hours from among accounting, business finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics,
industrial management, marketing, organization and management, and quantitative methods.

3.4.4.3. OSD policy states that a master’s degree is desirable for individuals serving in program
management capacities, preferably with a major in engineering, systems management, business
administration or a related field.

3.4.5. Master Acquisition and Financial Management Occupational Badge. Award of the Master level
badge occurs after 15 years experience in the specialty.




                                                   23
4.      Training Decisions. The CFETP captures the entire spectrum of training requirements for the
Acquisition Management Specialty using a building block approach (simple to complex). Included in the
spectrum is the strategy of when, where, and how to meet the training requirements. Options also abound
for additional courses in related acquisition functional disciplines or assignment-related duties.

              Table 1. Acquisition Management Approximate Training Flow (Accessions)
                    Acquisition
    Grade                                                        Class/Training Description
                    Experience
                    0 - 3 Months    Complete AFIT FAM 103 initials skills course (ACQ 101 equivalent)
                                    Complete SYS 101, CLB 007, and CLB 016; Complete DAU Core Plus/AFIT classes for
                  2 - 12 Months
                                    continuous learning
                    12 Months       Apply for Program Management Level I certification
                                    Complete all Initial Acquisition Assignment core training tasks and those non-core
                  1 - 36 Months
                                    tasks required by your supervisor
                  12 - 18 Months    Complete ACQ 201A and ACQ 201B
                                    Complete CON 115, and SAM 101 or IRM 101; Complete DAU Core Plus/AFIT classes
                  12 - 24 Months
                                    for continuous learning
                  12 - 24 Months    Attend Civilian Acculturation Leadership Training (CALT)
 GS-11 & below
                  12 - 36 Months    Attend Acquisition Leadership Challenge Program - Beginnings (ALCP - B) (Civilians)
                  18 - 24 Months    Complete AFIT IPM 301 or PMT 251 & 257; IPM 301 fulfills PMT 251 & 257
                    24 Months       Apply for Program Management Level II certification
                  24 - 36 Months    Complete AFIT IPM 301 if not taken to fulfill PMT 251 and PMT 257
                                    Complete all 2nd/3rd Acquisition Assignment core training tasks and those non-core
               37 Months - 10 Years
                                    tasks required by your supervisor
   O-3/GS-12                        Complete Primary Developmental Education
                                    Complete BCF 102, BCF 103, LOG 103, and SYS 202; Complete DAU Core Plus/AFIT
                    4 - 8 Years
                                    classes for continuous learning
   O-3 - O-4/
                                    Attend Acquisition Leadership Challenge Program I (ALCP - I)
 GS-12 - GS-13
   O-4/GS-13                        Complete Intermediate Developmental Education
   O-5/GS-14                        Attend Acquisition Leadership Challenge Program II (ALCP - II)
                                    Complete PMT 352A and PMT 352B; Apply for Program Management Level III
                     8+ Years*
                                    certification
                   Job Specific     If assigned to an ACAT III PM position, complete PMT 400 if applicable
   O-5/GS-14                        Attend Acquisition Leadership Challenge Program III (ALCP - III)
   O-5 - O-6/                       Complete Senior Developmental Education; Apply for PMT 401 nomination for
 GS-14 - GS-15                      development towards ACAT I/II PM/DPM positions
                                    If assigned as ACAT I/II PM/DPM, complete PMT 401 if not already completed;
                   Job Specific
                                    Complete PMT 402 (prerequisites: PMT 401, PMT 301, or PMT 302)
* If assigned to a PM Level III position (Priority 1 students), complete PMT 352A/B as soon as prerequisites are
complete. PMT 352B has limited quotas and is based on the number of PM Level III positions.




                                                          24
                                      Table 2. USAF and DAU Program Management Track
                        Mandatory Certification/Qualificaiton Classes for Acquisition Program Management              School
                  FAM 103 Air Force Fundamentals of Acquisition Management (ACQ 101 equivalent)                        AFIT
                  ACQ 101 Fundamentals of Systems Acquisition Management                                               DAU
 Level I



                  SYS 101 Fundamentals of Systems Planning, Research, Development, and Engineering                     DAU
                  CLB 007 Cost Analysis                                                                                DAU
                  CLB 016 Introduction to Earned Value Management                                                      DAU
                  ACQ 201A Intermediate Systems Acquisition, Part A                                                    DAU
                  ACQ 201B Intermediate Systems Acquisition, Part B                                                    DAU
                  IPM 301 Air Force Intermediate Project Management (PMT 251 & PMT 257 equivalent)                     AFIT
                  PMT 251 Program Management Tools Course, Part I                                                      DAU
 Level II




                  PMT 257 Program Management Tools Course, Part II                                                     DAU
                  CON 115 Contracting Fundamentals                                                                     DAU
                  SAM 101 Basic Software Acquisition Management
                  or                                                                                                   DAU
                  IRM 101 Basic Information Systems Acquisition
                  BCF 102 Fundamentals of Earned Value Management (starting FY13, course will be listed as EVM 101)    DAU
                  BCF 103 Fundamentals of Business Financial Management                                                DAU
 Level III




                  LOG 103 Reliability, Availability, and Maintainability (RAM)                                         DAU
                  PMT 352A Program Management Office Course, Part A                                                    DAU
                  PMT 352B Program Management Office Course, Part B                                                    DAU
                  SYS 202 Intermediate Systems Planning, Research, Development, and Engineering, Part I                DAU
 Post Level III




                  Mandatory/Statutory Training
                  Assignment-specific for PEOs, SPMs, DSMs, PMs & DPMs                                                 DAU
                  Level IV training is mandatory for individuals assigned to PM, DPM, and PEO positions



4.1.    Initial Skills Course. DAU’s ACQ 101, required for Level I certification in Program
Management, is incorporated into the Air Force Fundamentals of Acquisition Management (AFFAM)
course. AFFAM is taught at the Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) School of Systems and
Logistics (AFIT/LS) in Kettering Ohio (see Part II, Section A).

4.2.    Follow-on training. Unit training for acquisition managers, as spelled out in Part II, Section B, is
continuation training and contains task/knowledge requirements.

4.3      Enhancement training (Currency). OSD (AT&L) policy requires that all acquisition workforce
members accumulate 80 hours of acquisition-related continuous learning (CL) credit every two years to
maintain professional currency. Some suggested courses and/or training modules to fully develop
acquisition managers are listed in Part II, Section D and on the acquisition manager career/APDP
overview                    page                   here:                 https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?channelPageId=s6925EC1348B50FB5E044080020E329A9.

4.3.1 Individuals are required to track CL progress in the on-line ACQ Now CL tracker at
https://www.atrrs.army.mil/channels/acqnowcl/.

4.3.2 More resources and information regarding CL is available at: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/browse.do?programId=t6925EC2E48B80FB5E044080020E329A9&channelPageId=s6925E
C1348B50FB5E044080020E329A9.



                                                                     25
5.      Acquisition Management Career Path/Training Flow. Table 1 describes the career path
training opportunities and outlines when training is required for career progression within this specialty.
How well you do in your current job is the most important factor in determining your future success.

5.1.     In some instances, an initial USAF assignment may be an operational career broadening
opportunity; however, when assigned to the initial acquisition management position, individuals are
expected to build depth through technical experience within the acquisition management arena.
Acquisition officers and civilian interns will typically spend most of their first assignment in a unit whose
primary mission is acquiring systems or services. The specific position will vary, but all first-assignment
officers and interns must develop skill as a project manager and as an acquisition specialist.

5.2.     The first acquisition assignment is normally as a project officer. Project officers work under the
guidance of a more senior acquisition manager translating user requirements into fielded capabilities. The
project officer may be assigned either a portion of a project to manage, or specific tasks or projects that
contribute to the program or the operation of the organization. Examples include managing a
modification program or test segment or other sub-element of a larger procurement, participating in an
Integrated Project Team (IPT), managing a Small Business Innovation Research project or serving as the
Award Fee monitor for a program. The project officer is responsible for meeting cost, schedule, and
performance parameters of the project. The project officer also develops depth in integrating all
functional stakeholders by understanding what each functional entity contributes to the overall acquisition
process. Project officers are also likely to be assigned management of office-related projects like
retirement ceremonies or office off-sites. Tasks of this nature provide additional opportunities to use your
creativity, hone your organizational, management, and leadership skills, create teams and delegate work.

5.2.1.   Attend Civilian Acculturation Leadership Training (CALT). For civilians only.

5.2.2. Complete the unit follow-on training tasks associated with the first assignment identified in Part
II, section B of this CFETP, designed to provide depth in acquisition management. Complete all core
tasks and those additional tasks recommended by your supervisor. Maintain readiness for mobilization
according to Unit Deployment Manager.

5.2.3. Take every opportunity to work with program management tools such as constructing work
breakdown structures and project schedules and identifying and managing risks.

5.2.4. Complete all requirements for Level I and Level II certification in Program Management. If your
acquisition management duties involve other disciplines such as contracting, logistics, test, or some other
area, take advantage of those opportunities and take related courses to pursue certifications in those
disciplines.

5.3.    The second acquisition assignment is normally as project manager, though with a greater amount
of responsibility. The development focus shifts to team leadership and communication. The project
manager serves as the spokesperson for the project and ensures that all stakeholders have the information
they need about the project. The project manager develops more depth in cross-functional integration by
trading off the legitimate demands of the various functionals to optimize the overall project. The project
manager learns to make decisions in the face of opposition and communicates those decisions to the
affected parties. The project manager ensures activities are compliant with acquisition policy.

5.3.1. Complete the unit follow-on training tasks associated with the second and third acquisition
assignments identified in Part II, Section B of this CFETP, as well as those recommended by your
management. Review first assignment core and optional tasks and seek additional opportunities to gain
experience. Discuss other educational options with your supervisor and complete DAU and AFIT on-line
and resident courses to broaden your knowledge and help you do your current job.


                                                     26
5.3.2. Complete Squadron        Officer   School    (SOS)    by   correspondence     and/or   in-residence.
Recommended for civilians.

5.4.     Several different assignments are normally required for you to experience the breadth of unit
acquisition program management opportunities to sufficient depth. To help achieve this, work with your
supervisor to pursue a PCA after two years on station (civilian interns should rotate every year in
accordance with the intern training plan). When contemplating future assignments, keep in mind the
following:

5.4.1 A change in weapon system supported--will give you a broad view of the differences in weapon
system complexity, supportability, and deployability.

5.4.2 A balanced approach to professional development--seek opportunities across various program
phases, including a variety of laboratory, product center, test center, and logistics center organizations.

5.4.3 A change in major command (MAJCOM) -- be mindful of the fact that experience in a different
MAJCOM will give you a broader view of the total Air Force mission and a deeper understanding of how
all the "pieces" fit together. This knowledge will lay the foundation for success on the Air Staff or Joint
Staff.

5.5.    During your assignments in acquisition management, a variety of options are available to gain
experience outside the career field and opportunities to gain additional depth in your specialty, such as:

5.5.1 Experience acquisition management positions that are focused on Test and Engineering, Life
Cycle Logistics, Information Technology, or Production, Quality and Manufacturing.

5.5.2 Concentrate on building depth by leading a larger program with cost, schedule and performance
accountability.

5.5.3 Cross flow into another acquisition discipline, such as logistics, finance, or contracting, to
develop breadth of experience.

5.5.4 Compete for the Education With Industry (EWI) program, a 10-month non-degree program with
industry-leading companies that gives completely unique insights into business management.
5.5.5   Compete for Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) or other Advanced Degree Programs.

5.5.6 Officers can career broaden into a different Air Force specialty via formal cross-flow programs
such as Acquisition and Intelligence Experience Exchange Tour (AIEET), Acquisition and Logistics
Experience Exchange Tour (ALEET), or Space Lift Exchange Career program (SLECP); by serving as
United States Air Force Academy (USAFA), Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC), Squadron Officers
School (SOS) or Officer Training School (OTS) instructors or as a Recruiting Flight Commander; or by
completing assignments in command and control operations, space and missile operations, maintenance,
or operations support. These jobs are available to a limited number. Release is contingent on career field
dynamics and officers return to their ―core‖ AFSC following the career broadening tour.
5.5.7 Civilians can compete for career broadening opportunities sponsored by the Program
Management Career Field or the Civilian Development Education (CDE) Program.
5.5.8 All facets of project management provide ample opportunities to lead cross-functional teams of
government and contractor personnel of all ranks and experience levels. It is common to find acquisition
managers as non-supervisors in their first two assignments, but leading teams of 20-40 people. In
addition to leading an Integrated Product Team, all acquisition managers beyond the first assignment are
expected to coach and mentor junior members. Coaching refers to assisting others to learn their job tasks

                                                    27
where mentoring refers to providing career advice. Coaches share job knowledge and that is a
fundamental responsibility of a knowledge-based professional, such as the acquisition manager.

5.6.     The technical foundation you build early in your career will pay great dividends during a future
staff tour. Staff billets above the wing level for acquisition managers are available at HQ AFMC, HQ
AFSPC, the MAJCOMs, SAF/AQ, OSD, joint service agencies, Direct Reporting Units (DRU), and field
operating agencies. Program Element Monitors are a typical staff position.

5.7.    Your third acquisition assignment will generally place you in a position of increased
responsibility for a larger project, leading a major IPT or even as the deputy program manager. Your
experience and position will provide you additional management and leadership responsibilities and
increase your interaction with higher headquarters, Air Staff, OSD and perhaps Congressional staffs.

5.7.1.   Achieve Level III Program Management certification during this assignment or the next.

5.7.2. Complete the unit follow-on training tasks associated with the second and third acquisition
assignments identified in Part II, Section B.

5.7.3. Embrace opportunities to coach and mentor junior officers and civilians. They seek your
expertise and leadership. Investing time in people increases their job satisfaction and productivity.
5.8.    Most individuals selected for resident Intermediate Developmental Education (IDE) will go to a
challenging joint-duty staff assignment, MAJCOM, or Air Staff assignment upon graduation. Individuals
not afforded the opportunity to attend Professional Military Education (PME) in residence must complete
PME by correspondence or seminar to remain competitive in their Air Force career progression.

5.9.     Command and Materiel Leader billets exist at several levels. Individuals can compete for
detachmen, squadron, group and wing command; as well as Materiel Leader, Senior Materiel Leader, and
director. Squadron Command/Materiel Leader selects should register for the senior level Acquisition
Leadership Challenge Program (ALCP) as described in paragraph 3.2.2.1 of this section. Additional
opportunities exist to serve in joint duty and higher headquarters staff positions.
5.10. Officers selected for promotion to lieutenant colonel or colonel will also have the opportunity to
vie for in-residence attendance at Senior Developmental Education (SDE). Civilians also have the
opportunity to vie for in-residence attendance at SDE. Upon graduation, individuals may be assigned to
the Air Staff, joint-duty billets, or chosen for command/Senior Materiel Leader.

5.11. ACAT III Program Managers are eligible and highly encouraged to attend PMT 403, Program
Manager’s Skills Course. The two week in-residence class is at Ft Belvoir Virginia and provides ACAT
III-specific training. There is no formal board for PMT 403, but the individual must be recognized as the
system program manager to the PEO, as shown in SMART.

5.12. Individuals who have been designated or are potential ACAT I or II Program Managers or
Deputies, are eligible to attend PMT 401, the Program Manager’s Course, for 10 weeks in-residence at Ft
Belvoir, Virginia. DAU hosts multiple offerings throughout the year. SAF/AQH issues a call for
nomination packages to MAJCOM, Air Staff and DoD agency POCs, then holds a board to prioritize and
allocate primary and alternate selectees. Nominations are announced afterwards.

5.13. Attendance at PMT 402, the Executive Program Manager’s Course is determined by assignment
or pending assignment to an ACAT I/II program as the Program Manager or Deputy Program Manager,
following completion of PMT 401 or (no longer offered) PMT 301/302 courses.



                                                   28
                                           PART I
                     Section C - PROFICIENCY TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

1.      Purpose. The proficiency training requirements are defined in terms of task and knowledge
requirements for each skill level. They are stated in general terms and establish the standards of
performance. The specific knowledge training requirements are identified in Part II.

2.      Acquisition Management Specialty Qualifications:

2.1.    Knowledge. The following knowledge is required for award of the AFSC (63AX):

2.1.1. DoD and Air Force system, subsystem, and equipment acquisition program management
philosophy, policies, and procedures applicable through several phases of an acquisition life cycle; and
program management procedures pertinent to development, procurement, production, logistics support,
and techniques of employment for the system being acquired.

2.2.    Education. For entry into this specialty, undergraduate academic degree specialization in
engineering, engineering science, engineering management, mathematics, analytical science, physical
science, business, or management; or completion of a minimum of 24 semester credit hours of study from
a accredited institution of higher education from among the disciplines of: accounting, business finance,
law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, and
organization and management is mandatory.

2.3.     Training. The Air Force Institute of Technology Air Force Fundamentals of Acquisition
Management (AFFAM) course is the mandatory initial skills course following assignment to a 63A1
position or an 1101 civilian internship program. Officers cross flowing into acquisition management are
scheduled for AFFAM by AFPC/DPASA (a division of AFPC/DPA, Directorate of Assignments). Those
cross flowing from other acquisition career fields with three or more years of acquisition experience are
exempt from the AFFAM requirement.

2.4.    Experience. Award of the AFSC 63A1 is automatic upon initial acquisition management
assignment. For Award of AFSC 63A3, 24 months of Acquisition Professional Development Program
(APDP) coded experience in any acquisition functional category (i.e. Program Management; Systems
Planning, Research, Development and Engineering; Test and Evaluation) is mandatory. Additionally, the
Officer must be assigned to a 63A position. Fully qualified 63A3 officers will be awarded the 63A4
AFSC, Acquisition Management Staff Officer, upon assignment to a 63A position in a management
headquarters or other non-program office staff.

2.5.    Training Sources. A list of training courses to support training is in Part II, Section D.




                                                     29
                                              PART I
                            Section D - RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS

1.     Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies known resource constraints that preclude
minimal/desired training from being developed or conducted.


2.       ACQ 201B is constrained to the number of training authorizations for the Air Force to match
certification requirements across numerous APDP functional areas. The DACM office (SAF/AQH) is
proactively managing the constraint by engaging with AT&L (DAU) to get more authorizations, placing
visibility and emphasis on meeting tenure requirements, and working with the MAJCOMs to best
prioritize the individuals requiring this training.


3.       PMT 352B is constrained to the number of training authorizations for the Air Force to match
certification requirements across numerous APDP functional areas. The DACM office (SAF/AQH) is
proactively managing the constraint by engaging with AT&L (DAU) to get more authorizations, placing
visibility and emphasis on meeting tenure requirements, and working with the MAJCOMs to best
prioritize the individuals requiring this training.


4.     There are no other constraints raised by any MAJCOMs at this time.




                                                 30
                                        PART II
               Section A – AIR FORCE FORMAL TRAINING COURSE CONTENT

1.      Purpose. The Air Force developed specific courses to augment those required for acquisition
professionals by DAWIA or under the DOD AT&L Workforce Education, Training, and Career
Development Program, found in Part II, Section D. This section provides an overview of the content for
the Air Force 63AX/1101 training courses. For career development courses/education, please visit the
Program Management webpage via the Air Force Portal.

2.      Records Documentation. The CFETP will be issued at the first acquisition duty station. The
supervisor will document training completion in the Training Completion Certification Table found at
Attachment 1 of the individual’s CFETP. The supervisor will document unit follow-on training using the
training task table in Part II, Section B. Commanders/Directors are responsible for ensuring use of the
CFETP for all military and civilian acquisition managers.

3.      Air Force Acquisition Manager Training. The following Course Content lists the training
requirements needed by the users and are broken out by training course (AFFAM and IPM).

3.1      Air Force Fundamentals of Acquisition Management (AFFAM). AFFAM is required formal
initial skills training. Provides students with an overview of the entire weapon systems acquisition
process, from requirements identified through pre-systems acquisition, and sustainment. Covers the
entire acquisition process as outlined in key DoD Level documents, with additional information on Air
Force-specific processes and methodologies. Includes instruction on teaming, ethics, the acquisition
professional development program, and provides students with a working knowledge of all key functional
disciplines and the defense acquisition system. The course uses a combination of classroom
lecture/discussion, group projects/exercises, and case studies. DAU’s ACQ 101 is included in AFFAM.
Additional details can be found on the AFIT website here: http://www.afit.edu/ls/coursedes.cfm?p=100.

3.2      Intermediate Project Management (IPM). IPM 301 provides Air Force officers and civilians a
deeper foundation in everyday project management skills. More advanced project management topics are
addressed using a combination of in-class lectures and discussions, project management readings and case
studies, and individual/group exercises. Topics include: business case analysis, stakeholder management,
communications management, time management, project planning, project execution and status reporting,
project recovery, and transferring project management responsibility. The centerpiece of the course is a
dynamic project management simulation, which integrates and applies these project management topics.
IPM 301 builds on basic project management education newcomers to acquisition receive in the AF
Fundamentals of Acquisition Management (AFFAM) course. This course should be completed after
approximately 30 months of acquisition experience and preferably not later than 36 months. This course
is mandatory for all acquisition managers with less than 48 months of program management experience.
The project management skills taught in these two courses aren't covered in certification training, and will
be useful to acquisition managers immediately and throughout their careers. For students that take PM
301, it will fulfill both PMT 251 and PMT 257 requirements. Additional details can be found on the
AFIT website here: http://www.afit.edu/ls/coursedes.cfm?p=104.




                                                    31
                                              PART II
                              Section B – FOLLOW-ON UNIT TRAINING


1.     Follow-on Unit Training. Follow-on Unit Training is designed to teach new acquisition
managers the tools of the trade, local operating procedures, requirements, and common project
management procedures.

1.1.     Concept. Acquisition Managers should complete AFFAM prior to unit training. The intent of
unit follow-on training is to build upon the lessons presented in formal training. Individuals will not be
upgraded to a fully qualified level until satisfactorily completing both formal training and the core tasks
identified by an * in the Acquisition Manager Task List table. One successful occurrence does not
necessarily constitute understanding of the training objective, but it should provide the individual with a
basic understanding of subject areas.

1.2.     Training plan. The instructional design for unit level training is determined locally, but is most
often accomplished by pairing a junior military member or civilian with an individual with accrued time
in acquisition management. If required, appropriate lesson plans, support materials, and instructor
guidance are the responsibility of each unit. Unit training may include work center and field visits, task
observations, classroom instruction, self-study, and other appropriate instructional methods to accomplish
training objectives.

1.2.1. Supervisors will review the CFETP with trainees at an initial interview within 30 days of the
trainee’s assignment to the unit. During the interview, discuss core task requirements listed in the
Acquisition Manager Task List (identified by an *), and explain that core tasks must be completed within
36 months after assignment to an acquisition management position, or address those that must wait until
the next assignment. Supervisor should do their best to identify opportunities and allow their trainees to
complete core tasks through other means (other local programs) that cannot be accomplished within their
current program/office. Document the initial interview. Additionally, supervisors will print their name
and write their initials in the ―Signature Card for Trainee and Supervisor for Acquisition Management
Training Task List,‖ so that any future supervisor has a data trail.

1.2.2.   Supervisors will identify any tasks the trainee will be required to complete in addition to the core
tasks.

1.2.3. Supervisors will continue to review training progress with trainees to coincide with the normal
feedback cycle. In the event an individual changes assignments or supervisors, the training plan will be
reviewed prior to departure between the individual and the supervisor.

1.3.  Training Period. Individuals are to complete all their core tasks identified in the Acquisition
Manager Task List within their first three acquisition management assignments.

1.4.     Documentation. Document and certify completion of training. Complete the following columns
in Part II of the CFETP: Trainee initials, Supervisor initials and Date.

1.4.1. Document the individual's training in accordance with the Acquisition Manager Task List table
below. The table is an administrative tool for units to track the on-the-job training (OJT) status of the
individual. The depth of training may be anywhere from simple familiarization to in-depth knowledge
and task performance. Each organization determines if the individual in training has met training
requirements based on professional judgment and the unique requirements of the particular unit. The
format of the table enables supervisors to document completion of the various behaviors trained through
OJT. This list may be augmented by the unit via local AF Form 797 or similar method such as electronic
documentation.
                                                     32
1.4.2. Supervisors will print their name and write their initials in the ―Signature Card for Trainee and
Supervisor for Acquisition Management Task List,‖ so that any future supervisor has a data trail.

1.4.3. Document training by completing the following columns in the Acquisition Manager Task List
table: Trainee initials, Supervisor initials and Date.




                     Signature Card for Trainee and Supervisor
                                        for
                      Acquisition Manager Training Task List

                                             This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                                     Initials (Written)

                                             Printed Name Of Supervisor and Written Initials
N/I                                                             N/I


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I




                                                                   33
                  A1 Initial Acquisition Assignment                           Trainee Initials   Supervisor’s   Date
                  Unit Follow-on Training Task List                                                Initials
                 A1
  Acquisition Manager Training Task
                 List
Core tasks indicated by *
A1 1 ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT TRAINING FLOW
*A1 1.1 Within your first month: Military will be automatically enrolled
in the Air Force Fundamentals of Acquisition Management (AFFAM)
Course (includes ACQ 101). Civilians will need to enroll through AFIT
NOW.
*A1 1.2 Between 2-12 months: enroll in and complete SYS 101 and the
continuous learning modules CLB 007 and CLB 016.
A1 1.3 12 months: Apply for Level I PM Certification.
*A1 1.4 Between 18-24 months: enroll in and complete ACQ 201.
*A1 1.5 Between 20-28 months: enroll in and complete CON 115 and
SAM 101 or IRM 101 courses on-line.
*A1 1.6 Before 24 months: enroll in and complete IPM 301 or PMT 251
and PMT 257.
A1 1.7 Between 24-28 months: Apply for Level II PM Certification.
A1 1.8 63A1 military officers will receive 63A3 AFSC at 24 months
*A1 1.9 Between 30-36 months: Enroll in and attend IPM (PM 301) at
AFIT (Prerequisite: ACQ 201) if not already taken to obtain Level II PM
Certification.
*A1 1.10 Commander’s/Director’s Initial Interview
A1 1.11 Initial Unit and Base Orientation
*A1 1.12 Attend Commander’s/Director’s orientation.
*A1 1.13 Complete base/unit acculturation process.
*A1 1.14 Attend unit mission briefing. Learn your organization’s
mission, goals and objectives.
*A1 1.15 Complete base/center familiarization/tour (may be part of
acculturation)
A1 2 PROJECT/PROGRAM MANAGEMENT INTRODUCTION
*A1 2.1 Explain how your project fits into the overall program and
understand the jobs/projects your supervisor has assigned you.
A1 2.2 If applicable, review and discuss international affairs and security
assistance policies affecting your program with your supervisor.
A1 2.3 Review prospectus and/or annual reports and financial statements
of the contractors associated with your program.
A1 3 PROJECT/PROGRAM MANAGEMENT CONTEXT
*A1 3.1 Read DoDD 5000.1 and DoDI 5000.2 – The Defense
Acquisition System.
*A1 3.2 Review AFPD 63-1, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle

                                                              34
               A1 Initial Acquisition Assignment                                 Trainee Initials   Supervisor’s   Date
               Unit Follow-on Training Task List                                                      Initials
Management; AFI 63-101, Integrated Product Support Planning and
Assessment.
*A1 3.3 Review CJCSI 3170.01D - Joint Capabilities Integration and Development
System (JCIDS) and AFI 10-601, Capabilities Based Requirements Development.
*A1 3.4 Read your requirement documents (e.g. ICD, CDD, CPD).
*A1 3.5 Read your program's Program Management Directive (PMD).
*A1 3.6 Determine your program’s ACAT level (and explain why);
identify your MDA, current phase of acquisition, and the timing and
entry criteria for the program's next milestone decision.
A1 3.7 Explain single-step and evolutionary acquisition; identify or
determine (as appropriate) the acquisition strategy of your program.
*A1 3.8 Identify and meet your warfighter customer(s). Understand the
customer’s requirements and current expectations for this program.
Individually review and discuss with multiple team members and your
supervisor.
*A1 3.9 Identify how and when your warfighter customer(s)/user(s) is
(are) involved in the acquisition process.
*A1 3.10 Identify your prime contractor and key partners or
subcontractors. Review latest Contract Performance Assessment Report
(CPAR) for prime contractor.
*A1 3.11 Identify your PEM and their organization and role relative to
your program. Review and discuss with your supervisor.
*A1 3.12 Identify the primary stakeholders (individuals or organizations)
that impact or influence your program.
*A1 3.13 Review an organizational chart for this office. Identify your
chain of command. Identify key leaders / decision makers in your
office/program. Review the organizational relationship with other
offices in your wing/directorate and elsewhere on your base.
*A1 3.14 Lead a small team to resolve an issue in support of broader
organization goals.
*A1 3.15 Become familiar with Tongue and Quill. Clearly communicate
ideas by using Tongue and Quill to construct a point/background paper
and Staff Summary Sheet.
*A1 3.16 Structure and present a coherent and focused briefing by using
your program office format.
*A1 3.17 Plan and conduct an effective meeting.
*A1 3.18 Review applicable FAR and other resource material on contract
negotiation and review and discuss with PCO.
A1 3.19 Suggested: Read ―Getting to Yes,‖ by Fisher and Ury, or similar
book. If you do not want to purchase it, borrow one from the library,
your ACE office, or from one of your co-workers.
*A1 3.20 Assist in preparation for and participate in a contract
negotiation.
A1 3.21 Participate in negotiations with government stakeholders for
meeting program needs (e.g. develop an MOA/MOU with another
organization such as AFOTEC and DCMA).

                                                                35
                    A1 Initial Acquisition Assignment                            Trainee Initials   Supervisor’s   Date
                    Unit Follow-on Training Task List                                                 Initials
*A1 3.22 Apply basic problem solving techniques and tools to problems
typical of those experienced in program/project office (e.g. decision analysis
tools, Pareto diagrams, etc – refer to ―The Memory Jogger: A Pocket guide of
tools for Continuous Improvement and Effective Planning‖).
A1 3.23 During your 1st year, construct a diagram of your professional
network (contacts, subject matter experts, team members, etc.).
A1 3.24 During your 2nd year, construct a diagram of your professional
network (contacts, subject matter experts, team members, etc.).
A1 3.25 During your 3rd year, construct a diagram of your professional
network (contacts, subject matter experts, team members, etc.).
A1 3.26 (Suggested) Join and participate in professional
organizations/associations (e.g. Project Management Institute (PMI),
CGOC, Society of Logistics Engineers (SOLE), American Institute of
Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA), etc.).
A1 3.27 Review your program’s PESHE report.
*A1 3.28 Review DoD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation.
A1 4 PROJECT/PROGRAM MANAGEMENT PROCESSES
*A1 4.1 Create or review work breakdown structures and integrated
master plan/integrated master schedule to manage your tasks (e.g. MS
Project).
A1 4.2 Review PMI’s Project Management Body of Knowledge
(PMBoK) and the DoD PMBoK Extension
(http://www.dau.mil/pubs/gdbks/pmbok.asp).
A1 5 PROJECT/PROGRAM INTEGRATION MANAGEMENT
*A1 5.1 Develop the project plan and baseline for an organizational
project (e.g., dining out, off-site, retirement ceremony, etc).
*A1 5.2 Find and review the program plans for your assigned program
and identify the program baseline.
A1 5.3 Support the development or updates of multiple elements of your
program plans.
*A1 5.4 Identify and review the data and metrics used to manage your
assigned program. Review and discuss what the metrics indicate about
the program’s cost, schedule, or performance outlook with your IPT and
functional leads.
*A1 5.5 Provide input and assist program team in evaluating and
managing program performance.
*A1 5.6 Observe the tools and techniques used by the program team to
manage and gain insight to contractor efforts. Review and discuss with
multiple government team members and your supervisor.
*A1 5.7 Identify and discuss the change management processes and
participants for your organization and your program contractor(s).
A1 5.8 Support the implementation of a change to your program.
*A1 5.9 Support a what-if drill related to a potential budget impact to
your program.
*A1 5.10 Read the PMA document for your program. Review and

                                                                 36
                  A1 Initial Acquisition Assignment                          Trainee Initials   Supervisor’s   Date
                  Unit Follow-on Training Task List                                               Initials
discuss your program’s customer expectations with you supervisor
*A1 5.11 Discuss with your supervisor what constitutes an APB and
Nunn-McCurdy breach. Identify the management systems your program
has in place to monitor and mitigate them.
A1 6 PROJECT/PROGRAM SCOPE MANAGEMENT
*A1 6.1 Review program initiation documents including JCIDS products
(ICD or CDD). Understand and discuss the scope of your
projects/program with your supervisor.
A1 6.2 Review Analysis of Alternatives (AoA) and Analysis of Material
Alternatives (AMA) history.
A1 6.3 Determine how the Technology Development Strategy (TDS) is
factored into your current program.
*A1 6.4 Identify your program’s next key decision point and the
associated required documentation.
A1 6.5 Assist program team in determining program scope, purpose, and
objectives and relate that knowledge to identification of deliverables.
*A1 6.6 Assist program team in determining basic cost/benefit methods,
contributing to ongoing studies, and appraising usefulness of relevant
studies.
*A1 6.7 Review the WBS, CWBS, WBS dictionary and RAM for your
program.
* A1 6.8 Read your program’s LCMP.
*A1 6.9 Assist in constructing or familiarize/review a program level
IMP.
A1 6.10 Assist in formal acceptance reviews of project deliverables.
*A1 6.11 Identify your program office’s change control process and the
membership of the Change Control Board (CCB). Discuss your role
relative to the CCB with your supervisor.
A1 6.12 Assist IPT in responding to change & implementing change
when approved.
A1 6.13 Review specific technology development plans and discuss the
associated readiness levels for the project with your S&T counterparts.
A1 6.14 Identify how your technology transition plans support your
acquisition strategy.
A1 7 SCHEDULE MANAGEMENT
*A1 7.1 Review Program level IMS and identify critical path.
*A1 7.2 Find your project in program level IMS and determine if it’s on
the critical path.
*A1 7.3 Use schedule tools to manage your project schedule (e.g. MS
Project).
A1 8 COST MANAGEMENT
A1 8.1 Meet with and participate in the program control working groups
during the budget execution cycle paying close attention to types of funds
discussions.

                                                             37
                   A1 Initial Acquisition Assignment                               Trainee Initials   Supervisor’s   Date
                   Unit Follow-on Training Task List                                                    Initials
*A1 8.2 Review your program budget and determine what funding
appropriations are included. Understand the rules associated with using
various appropriation types.
*A1 8.3 Define the status of your budget in CCaR and determine how we
track next year’s funds through the budget cycle.
A1 8.4 Support preparation of budget justification documents (PDOCs,
RDOCs).
A1 8.5 Participate in government cost estimate reviews.
*A1 8.6 Review program office life cycle cost planning or estimates.
*A1 8.7 Work with cost lead during program estimate working session
prior to program review.
*A1 8.8 Review your Cost Analysis Requirements Document (CARD), if
applicable.
A1 8.9 Participate with financial management team during the program
budget cycle.
*A1 8.10 Review all program budget documents. Discuss with program
cost lead.
*A1 8.11 Participate on a team using EVMS data to evaluate costs and
revise estimates
*A1 8.12 Determine what cost control system is used by the government
and the contractor. Determine how we track committed, obligated, and
expended funds associated with the program.
*A1 8.13 Describe/explain incentive structures in place on your project
and how they work to help control costs with your supervisor.
A1 8.14 Describe your program's execution plan and understand how it
ensures law compliance, e.g., ADA.
*A1 8.15 Determine how the contractor is paid and who is involved.
*A1 8.16 Determine DFAS, DCAA, and DCMA involvement on your
program.
*A1 8.17 Determine your obligations and expenditures for three months.
Describe trends. Determine if we meet the OSD and USAF targets.
*A1 8.18 Discuss funds transfer/purchase request activities with cost
lead.
* A1 8.19 Complete DAU’s CL Module 040 (Proper Financial
Accounting Treatments for Military Equipment)
A1 9 QUALITY MANAGEMENT
*A1 9.1 Review the Quality Management Plan.
*A1 9.2 Review quality control data and relevant quality trends on your program.
A1 10 HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
*A1 10.1 Identify the support contractors on your program. Discuss their
roles, responsibilities and limitations with your supervisor.
A1 10.2 Create and lead a virtual, or geographically dispersed, team for
an organizational project. Utilize net-meetings, telecoms and/or VTCs.

                                                                 38
                  A1 Initial Acquisition Assignment                       Trainee Initials   Supervisor’s   Date
                  Unit Follow-on Training Task List                                            Initials
*A1 10.3 Assist in planning several activities that help instill a
collaborative team mindset.
A1 10.4 Understand what personnel incentives (cash awards, time off,
etc) are available for military and government employees.
A1 10.5 Develop and submit an award package for a member of your team.
*A1 10.6 Keep a log of your activities and provide inputs to your
supervisor for your performance appraisal.
*A1 10.7 Observe your leadership’s actions related to team development.
*A1 10.8 Observe and participate in one or more meetings of a working
group supporting your program.
A1 11 COMMUNICATIONS MANAGEMENT
A1 11.1 Create stakeholder list through analysis of information needs
(who, where, when?) and organizational involvement.
*A1 11.2 Review the communications management plan. Determine if it
is up-to-date (may be found in LCMP or on older programs, SAMP).
*A1 11.3 Review contractor proprietary information and discuss methods
of protection with your supervisor.
*A1 11.4 Understand the Integrated Data Environment (IDE) used by
this office. Determine the shared drives, knowledge management tools,
web portals, communities of practice, etc associated with your effort.
A1 11.5 Participate with a program office in analyzing, reviewing,
preparing and submitting project performance status reports including
SMART, CPAR, MAR, SAR, DAES as applicable.
*A1 11.6 Attend more than one PMR.
*A1 11.7 Determine how we document lessons learned.
*A1 11.8 Determine how we archive program records.
A1 12 RISK MANAGEMENT
*A1 12.1 Read Risk Management Guidebook for DoD Acquisition found
at https://acc.dau.mil/CommunityBrowser.aspx?id=108201&lang=en-US
*A1 12.2 Read the DAU risk management guide for DoD Acquisition:
http://www.dau.mil/pubs/gdbks/risk_management.asp
*A1 12.3 Read the Risk Management Plan.
*A1 12.4 Identify your project’s overall risk assessment & discuss
rationale behind the assessment with your supervisor.
A1 12.5 Complete AFIT’s SYS 165 (Introduction to Risk Management).
A1 12.6 Participate in the development or update of a RMP for your
program or a project (could be in-house project).
A1 12.7 Contribute to the development of a risk assessment matrix for a
project.
*A1 12.8 Participate in as many steps of the RM process as practicable.
A1 13 PROCUREMENT MANAGEMENT
*A1 13.1 Read applicable FAR guidance on Contracting Officer

                                                                39
                   A1 Initial Acquisition Assignment                       Trainee Initials   Supervisor’s   Date
                   Unit Follow-on Training Task List                                            Initials
responsibilities and discuss with your PCO.
*A1 13.2 Review the acquisition strategy for your program.
*A1 13.3 Review the contract and contract mods/mod log(s) for your
program and find the key sections, read the SOW/PWS and identify the key
deliverables and deliverable dates.
*A1 13.4 Understand rationale for contract type recommendation based
on nature of requirement.
*A1 13.5 Participate in the development of SOO/SOW/PWS language
which captures program needs.
A1 13.6 Support the development of acquisition plans.
*A1 13.7 If applicable, read your program's J&A.
A1 13.8 Participate in your program’s data call.
*A1 13.9 Review AFMC Incentive Guide. If applicable, review your
program’s incentive plans and incentive award documents and discuss
with PCO.
A1 13.10 Support the development of a J&A for your program, as
applicable.
A1 13.11 Create a CDRL item based on data cost/benefit considerations.
A1 13.12 Conduct market research on a project subject and be familiar
with FEDBIZOPPS (https://www.fbo.gov/).
A1 13.13 Attend an industry day.
A1 13.14 Attend a Bidders’ Conference to observe agenda and conduct,
discuss outcome with PCO.
A1 13.15 Read the contractor’s proposal for your program.
A1 13.16 Review recent source selection decision documents
A1 13.17 Participate in SSA and/or SSEB.
A1 13.18 Collaborate with PCO and PM on competitive range
determination.
*A1 13.19 Support the development of the government’s should cost
position and expected schedule.
A1 13.20 Support the analysis of a bidder’s past performance and
financial health status.
*A1 13.21 Support technical evaluations and documentation of
conclusions.
A1 13.22 Support the development and presentation of outbriefs for
presentation to offerors.
*A1 13.23 Support a contract negotiation team – meet with contractor
personnel.
A1 13.24 Identify the data management process and individual
responsibilities for your program and discuss with your data manager.
A1 13.25 Participate in incentive award decisions for your program.
A1 13.26 Identify the GFP/GFE/GFM management process and
individual responsibilities for your program and discuss with your GFM
                                                             40
                 A1 Initial Acquisition Assignment                            Trainee Initials   Supervisor’s   Date
                 Unit Follow-on Training Task List                                                 Initials
manager. If your program does not have GFP, understand why.
*A1 13.27 Review safeguards established on your program to avoid
constructive changes (i.e. contract changes w/o formal written authority).
*A1 13.28 Meet with DCMA personnel to discuss their services to the
PM. Coordinate with DCMA personnel on acceptance and delivery of
end items.
A1 13.29 Understand and review source selection procedures. Be
familiar with discussion and protest procedures.
A1 14 SYSTEMS ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT
*A1 14.1 Read the Systems Engineering Plan (SEP) for your project.
Discuss with SE lead.
*A1 14.2 Review SE policy with system engineering lead.
*A1.14.3 Determine the key specifications and standards used on your
project.
*A1 14.4 Understand key SE events from IMP and IMS. Discuss with
SE lead. Review the programs Key Performance Parameters (KPP),
Technical Performance Measures (TPMs) and leading indicators
A1 14.5 Identify what frequency management issues are applicable to
your project.
*A1 14.6 Be familiar with how your program implements OSS&E.
A1 14.7 Assist in reviewing trade studies to evaluate alternative technical
options to select a preferred solution.
*A1 14.8 Assist in the development or review a requirements correlation
matrix (RCM) to ensure verification of requirements are planned,
accomplished and documented.
*A1 14.9 Discuss with the lead systems engineer, what the top five
systems engineering issues are for your program.
*A1 14.10 Review the requirements traceability process/product.
*A1 14.11 Participate in a design review.
*A1 14.12 Discuss the requirements analysis and allocation process with
the systems engineering team.
*A1 14.13 Determine the analysis and control tools employed by systems
engineering.
*A1 14.14 Determine the configuration management process employed.
*A1 14.15 Observe a Change Control Board (CCB).
A1 15 SOFTWARE ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT
*A1 15.1 Determine what kinds of software (new development, COTS,
embedded, AIS) are being developed and integrated on the program.
*A2 15.2 Review and understand your program’s software development
model phases and content.
*A1 15.3 Review your program’s software test and evaluation plan.
*A1 15.4 Describe software metrics used on this program.
A1 16 ACQUISITION LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT
                                                             41
                 A1 Initial Acquisition Assignment                         Trainee Initials   Supervisor’s   Date
                 Unit Follow-on Training Task List                                              Initials
*A1 16.1 Read AFPD 63/20-1 and AFI 63-101 Acquisition and
Sustainment Lifecycle Management.
*A1 16.2 Read the Life Cycle Management and/or Product Support
Management Plan.
*A1 16.3 Take LOG 101 (Acquisition Logistics Fundamentals) on-line.
*A1 16.4 Determine your Reliability, Maintainability, and Availability
criterion. Determine how they are included in design and measured as
either a design requirement or as a performance parameter.
A1 16.5 Discuss purchasing and supply chain management with logistics
lead.
*A1 16.6 Review SORAP, Core, and 50/50 guidance and review
program’s documentation on SORAP and Core.
*A1 16.7 Review guidance on ICS/CLS/Organic and transition to
sustainment.
*A1 16.8 Read Public-Private Partnerships in AFI 63-101 and discuss
opportunities with logistics lead.
A1 17 SUSTAINMENT LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT
*A1 17.1 Read AFI 63-1101, Modification Management.
*A1 17.2 Understand the usage of AF Form 1067, Modification Proposal.
*A1 17.3 Discuss application of Performance Based Logistics (PBL)
with logistics team.
*A1 17.4 Identify key suppliers on your program.
*A1 17.5 Identify modifications ongoing/planned on your program.
A1 17.6 Identify the obsolescence items/DMSDS issues on your
program.
*A1 17.7 Review the Technical Orders (TO) in use/planned on your
program.
*A1 17.8 Identify the maintenance plan on your program.
*A1 17.9 If applicable, identify where any depot level maintenance is
accomplished.
A1 17.10 Understand program’s PDMSS schedule and personnel
involved in processing changes/additions.
A1 18 TEST AND EVALUATION MANAGEMENT
*A1 18.1 Read AFI 99-103, Capabilities-based Test and Evaluation and
AFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation Process.
*A1 18.2 Read the Test and Evaluation Master Plan (TEMP).
*A1 18.3 Take TST 102 (Fundamentals of Test and Evaluation).
*A1 18.4 Determine the membership of your integrated test team.
Determine your Responsible Test Organization (RTO). Meet the testers
(i.e. your local AFOTEC or RTO office).
*A1 18.5 Review the objectives of test planning meetings and participate
in one.


                                                            42
                 A1 Initial Acquisition Assignment                         Trainee Initials   Supervisor’s   Date
                 Unit Follow-on Training Task List                                              Initials
*A1 18.6 Know your program's seamless verification plan and how DT
and OT are blended into a common test strategy
*A1 18.7 Determine the content, purpose and timing of required Test and
Evaluation Reporting.
*A1 18.8 Accomplish deficiency reporting as required that is
comprehensive and addresses test issues
A1 19 MANUFACTURING MANAGEMENT
*A1 19.1 Read your Capabilities Production Document (CPD).
*A1 19.2 Discuss production planning with members of the systems
engineering team.
*A1 19.3 Review program strategy for providing/using GFE on program
(e.g. ―make or buy‖ purchase decisions).
*A1 19.4 Review and discuss contractor’s and/or subcontractor’s
production quality management system with your supervisor. How are
processes monitored, analyzed and improved? What quality
testing/sampling is done? How is re-work minimized?
A1 19.5 Identify production changes involved on your program.
A1 19.6 Observe a Production readiness Review (PRR) or Manufacturing
Readiness Assessment (MRA)
A1 19.7 Read ―The Goal: A Process of Ongoing Improvement‖ by
Eliyahu M. Goldratt and Jeff Cox for a readable understanding of process
improvement principles, or similar book. If you do not want to purchase
it, borrow one from the library or one of your co-workers.
A1 20 DEPLOYMENT
*A1 20.1 Identify using MAJCOMs, lead MAJCOM and FMS countries
if applicable.
A1 20.2 Identify number of fielded systems and which operating
locations they are located at.
A1 20.3 Participate in a Site Activation Task Force (SATAF) visit.
A1 20.4 Participate in beddown planning with the user.
*A1 20.5 Determine your program’s RAA, IOC, and FOC definitions
and know their dates.
A1 21 MENTORING
A1 21.1 Participate in a formal mentoring program if available. If not
available, seek informal mentoring opportunities. (Refer to AFI 36-
3401)




                                                            43
       A2 Second and Third Acquisition Assignment                     Trainee    Supervisor’s   Date
            Unit Follow-on Training Task List                         Initials     Initials

                A2
   Acquisition Manager Training
             Task List
Core tasks indicated by *
A2 1 ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT TRAINING FLOW
A2 1.1 Commander’s/Director’s initial interview
A2 1.2 Initial Unit and Base Orientation
*A2 1.3 Attend Commander’s/Director’s orientation.
A2 1.4 Complete base/unit acculturation process.
*A2 1.5 Attend unit mission briefing. Learn your organization’s
mission, goals and objectives.
*A2 1.6 Complete base/center familiarization/tour (may be part
of acculturation)
* A2 1.7 Review 1st assignment core tasks and repeat as applicable.
A2 2 PROJECT/PROGRAM MANAGEMENT CONTEXT
A2 2.1 Attend a conference or seminar related to defense
acquisition issues.
*A2 2.2 Review and discuss the industry standards / best
practices used on your program with your supervisor.
A2 2.3 Read applicable periodicals/journals related to project
management (e.g., AT&L, PMI).
A2 2.4 Identify how your program fits in to the contractor’s
overall business strategy and portfolio.
A2 2.5 Attend the ALCP-I course (re: Part I, Section B)
*A2 2.6 Participate in significant program review or in
preparing and coordinating Milestone Review documents.
*A2 2.7 Participate in development and approval of an
Acquisition Strategy.
*A2 2.8 Lead a multifunctional team/organization to accomplish
a substantial project (e.g., ACAT III or equivalent).
*A2 2.9 Participate in negotiations with a contractor for meeting
program and contractual needs.
*A2 2.10 Construct a chart or summary of significant
stakeholders on your project, identify the types of
influence/power each has over your project, and apply
appropriate influence strategies for each stakeholder.
*A2 2.11 Write performance reports and provide performance
feedback for subordinates.
*A2 2.12 Write or maintain individual career development plans
with subordinates.

                                                               44
       A2 Second and Third Acquisition Assignment                 Trainee    Supervisor’s   Date
            Unit Follow-on Training Task List                     Initials     Initials

A2 3 PROJECT/PROGRAM MANAGEMENT PROCESSES
*A2 3.1 Review PMI’s Project Management Body of
Knowledge (PMBoK) and the DoD PMBoK Extension.
A2 4 PROJECT/PROGRAM INTEGRATION
MANAGEMENT
A2 4.1 Lead the development of the acquisition strategy for a
project/program.
*A2 4.2 Lead the development of a program plan and program
baseline.
*A2 4.3 Participate in an IBR to document a contract baseline.
*A2 4.4 Use management data and metrics to determine your
program’s cost, schedule, and/or performance status and
outlook.
*A2 4.5 Lead your program team’s efforts to gain insight and
manage your contractor’s efforts.
*A2 4.6 Lead a program change through your organization’s
change management process.
A2 4.7 Identify program issues that could lead to a program
breach and/or re-baseline and recommend potential actions to
senior leadership.
*A2 4.8 Lead a budget-related what-if drill on your program and
report the findings to senior leadership.
A2 4.9 Lead the review, establishment or update of an PMA
with your customer.
A2 5 PROJECT/PROGRAM SCOPE MANAGEMENT
*A2 5.1 Prepare for and complete a key decision
point/milestone decision review.
*A2 5.2 Approve & implement project/program purpose, scope
& objectives.
*A2 5.3 Develop or approve program level IMP.
*A2 5.4 Develop or approve program level WBS, CWBS,
RAM.
*A2 5.5 Lead an IPT to map program scope changes to program
sub-elements.
A2 6 SCHEDULE MANAGEMENT
*A2 6.1 Apply schedule control methods.
*A2 6.2 Determine schedule risk reduction efforts planned or
underway.
*A2 6.3 Calculate schedule confidence (attrition-based
planning).




                                                            45
A2 7 COST MANAGEMENT
*A2 7.1 Participate in a program control budget activities
review.
*A2 7.2 Help prepare for and participate in the execution review
process and the required reporting to higher headquarters.
*A2 7.3 Participate in review of program office estimates - from
program office creation to higher headquarters approval.
A2 7.4 Assess cost studies and formulate program and budget
strategies for program execution.
A2 7.5 Task, review and implement options resulting from LCC
studies into program strategic plan.
*A2 7.6 Evaluate & approve CARD requirements and determine
completeness of program CARD.
*A2 7.7 Participate as an active member on budget/POM teams.
*A2 7.8 Serve on team reviewing budget submission for
compliance with congressional & DOD financial rules.
A2 7.9 Review process and documentation requirements for
program new starts or modifications.
*A2 7.10 Evaluate EVMS data to develop and implement
program recommendations to improve cost/schedule
performance, as applicable.
A2 7.11 Review/participate in a reprogramming action.
*A2 7.12 Work with budget staff to interpret funding issues
within bounds of FAR and FM regulations and guide staff to
determine best course of action for execution.
*A2 7.13 Participate in budget year close-out sessions.
A2 8 QUALITY MANAGEMENT
A2 8.1 Assist in the development, evaluation and/or
implementation of a project Quality Management Plan.
A2 8.2 Evaluate quality assessments/metrics in relationship to
quality requirements and take appropriate action.
*A2 8.3 Use quality control data or a deficiency report to
improve product quality.
A2 9 HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
A2 9.1 If applicable, support a reorganization effort within your
organization.
A2 9.2 Establish and defend the need for organic and contracted
resources for your IPT. Obtain approvals and funding to obtain
needed contracted support.
*A2 9.3 Provide recommendations on the design, membership,
and roles and responsibilities of a new IPT. Document in an
IPT Charter.
A2 9.4 Identify the organizational processes for obtaining
qualified organic and contractor resources to support
organizational duty assignments and your IPT.
A2 9.5 Create a staffing management plan that identifies long
                                                             46
range organic and contractor resource requirements for your
IPT.
A2 9.6 Negotiate with functional leadership for organic support.
A2 9.7 Acquire and manage the contracted support.
*A2 9.8 Plan and implement a team training activity.
*A2 9.9 Collaborate with others inside and outside the program
office (lead by example).
*A2 9.10 Recognize your team members in public/team forum.
*A2 9.11 Work with an experienced senior leader to write a
team member’s performance appraisal, OPR, or EPR as
applicable.
*A2 9.12 Participate in one or more working groups that support
your IPT.
A2 10 COMMUNICATIONS MANAGEMENT
A2 10.1 Construct, obtain approval for, and maintain a
communications management plan.
A2 10.2 Answer a media or freedom of information request.
*A2 10.3 Prepare and approve several types of status and
progress reports.
*A2 10.4 Organize, establish agenda, and lead more than one
PMR or working group.
*A2 10.5 Review, evaluate and perform variance/trend analysis of
project EVMS data and take/advise of management actions based on
the results.
*A2 10.6 Establish performance measurement metrics for a
project and use them to make program decisions.
*A2 10.7 Interpret SMART data.
*A2 10.8 Coordinate a CPAR.
*A2 10.9 Prepare and submit program obligations &
expenditures status reports.
A2 10.10 Build or update the plan for administrative closure on
a program.
A2 11 RISK MANAGEMENT
*A2 11.1 Conduct qualitative and quantitative risk assessments
for your projects.
*A2 11.2 Determine overall risk ranking for your program.
*A2 11.3 Lead implementation of risk management processes
for your project.
A2 12 PROCUREMENT MANAGEMENT
*A2 12.1 Work with PCO and others’ tasks (use their outputs)
to execute program.
*A2 12.2 Be involved with final decision on contract type.
*A2 12.3 Be involved with final decision on acquisition
approach (commercial or other).

                                                              47
*A2 12.4 Lead the development and approval of the
SOO/SOW/PWS.
*A2 12.5 Lead the development and approval of the coordinated
acquisition plan.
A2 12.6 Manage development of the RFP and approve final
release.
A2 12.7 Write J&A for your program.
*A2 12.8 If your program has data rights or intellectual property
issues, discuss with PCO and/or intellectual property attorney.
*A2 12.9 Be involved with writing the incentive plan,evaluation
criteria, instructions to offerors, and section L&M for your
program if applicable.
*A2 12.10 Lead the development of a Contract Change Proposal
or an Engineering Change Proposal.
A2 12.11 Lead the conduct of a bidder’s conference and
synthesize the results to improve RFP and other program
documents.
A2 12.12 Serve as an SSEB member.
A2 12.13 Lead the development of the government’s ―should
cost‖ position and expected schedule.
A2 12.14 Present outbriefs to offerors and answer questions.
A2 12.15 Approve data needs and direct contract
implementation.
*A2 12.16 Develop incentive implementation procedures and
lead the determination of an incentive award.
*A2 12.17 Coordinate with DCMA Quality Services personnel
on acceptance and delivery of end items.
*A2 12.18 Lead the contract mod process and supply necessary
requirements language.
*A2 12.19 Analyze GFP requirements for program use and
monitor its suitability and timely delivery.
A2 12.20 Present FDO or similar final decisions to contractor.
*A2 12.21 Establish safeguards on your program to avoid
constructive changes and ensure compliance.
A2 12.22 Lead CCB process.
A2 12.23 Determine the current block/increment/spiral
configuration of your system and understand the user’s future
intent of the system.
A2 13 SYSTEMS ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT
A2 13.1 Participate in writing/updating the SEP.
A2 13.2 Manage OSS&E applications on your program.
*A2 13.3 Assist in planning and employing an M&S strategy for
a program/project.
*A2 13.4 Use the Systems Engineering requirements
traceability process to make program decisions affecting the

                                                               48
product design and ability to meet user needs.
*A2 13.5 Assist in reviewing the outcomes of technical reviews to
determine if the development program should move to the next phase.
*A2 13.6 Ensure the ICDs are properly drafted and in place for
your program. Participate in developing an ICD/CDD/CPD update.
*A2 13.7 Prepare for and brief CCB on a proposed change to
your project.
A2 14 SOFTWARE ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT
*A2 14.1 Analyze the software metrics (TPM, SPRs, etc) on
your program to determine what corrective action is required.
*A2 14.2 Participate in a software design review.
*A2 14.3 Discuss software development and design with
systems engineering team. Determine your contractor’s SW
maturity level.
A2 15 ACQUISITION LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT
*A2 15.1 Assist in leading a formal design review and ensure
supportability requirements are considered in program decisions.
*A2 15.2 Assist in writing and obtaining approval of project
SORAP and Core documents.
*A2 15.3 Assist in managing ICS and transition to sustainment phase.
Understand the difference between ICS and CLS.
*A2 15.4 Understand the scheduling and execution plan for
delivery of all related logistics requirements (e.g. spares, tech
Orders, support equipment, training, etc).
*A2 15.5 Understand the roles and responsibilities of the
Product Support Manager.
A2 16 SUSTAINMENT LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT
*A2 16.1 Participate in product support management decisions.
*A2 16.2 Understand the programs Transition Support Plan
(TSP).
A2 17 TEST AND EVALUATION MANAGEMENT
*A2 17.1 Participate in test management decisions.
*A2 17.2 Incorporate test team members in program decisions.
*A2 17.3 Participate in test reporting.
*A2 17.4 Understand the linkages between the programs
KPP/KSA's and the Test Plan.
*A2 17.5 Understand the Government’s DT/OT agencies
Program Introduction Document (PID) and Statement of
Capability (SOC).
A2 18 MANUFACTURING MANAGEMENT
A2 18.1 Ensure producibility considerations are addressed
during design reviews.
A2 18.2 Assist in the development of a production plan that
fully addresses producibility, feasibility and readiness.

                                                                49
A2 19 SECURITY ASSISTANCE
A2 19.1 Take the on-line DISAM Orientation Course.
(http://www.disam.dsca.mil/DistLearn/SAM-OC.htm)
A2 19.2 If assigned to an FMS program, complete SAM-C in-
residence course at DISAM, Wright-Patterson AFB.
A2 19.3 Review the Security Assistance Management Manual
(SAMM) (http://www.disam.dsca.mil/pubs/publications.asp).
A2 19.4 Review a Letter of Request (LOR) or a Letter of Offer
and Acceptance (LOA) from a foreign customer or from the
samples in the SAMM.
A2 19.5 Distinguish between the different security assistance
programs and how they are funded.
A2 20 MENTORING
*A2 20.1 Mentor/coach a junior acquisition management officer
or civilian.




                                                            50
                                              PART II
                                Section C - SUPPORT MATERIALS

1.      Support Materials. The following list of support materials covers the most frequently
referenced.

1.1.    Instructions and Directives.
   -   DoDD 5000.1: The Defense Acquisition System
   -   DoDI 5000.2: Operation of the Defense Acquisition System
   -   DoDD 5000.52: Defense Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics Workforce Education, Training,
       and Career Development Program
   -   DoDI 5000.66: Operation of the Defense Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics Workforce
       Education, Training, Career Development Program
   -   DoD 5105.38-M: Security Assistance Management Manual)
   -   DoD 5500.7-R: Joint Ethics Regulation
   -   DoD 7000.14-R: Department of Defense Financial Management Regulations
   -   CJCSI 3170.01G: Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
   -   AFI 10-601: Operational Capability Requirements Development
   -   AFMAN 16-101: International Affairs and Security Assistance Management
   -   AFH 33-337: The Tongue and Quill
   -   AFI 36-601: Air Force Civilian Career Program Management
   -   AFI 36-1001: Managing the Civilian Performance Program
   -   AFI 36-1004: The Air Force Civilian Recognition Program
   -   AFI 36-2406: Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems
   -   AFI 36-2501: Officer Promotions and Selective Continuation
   -   AFPAM 36-2506: You and Your Promotions - The Air Force Officer Promotion Program
   -   AFI 63-101: Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management
   -   AFPD 63-1 & 20-1: Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management
   -   AFI 63-1201: Life Cycle Systems Engineering
   -   AFPD 99-1: Test and Evaluation Process
   -   AFI 99-103: Capabilities Based Test and Evaluation
   -   AFI 10-2501: Air Force Emergency Management Program Planning and Operations
   -   AFMAN 10-2602: Nuclear, Biological, Chemical, and Conventional Defense, Operations and Standards
   -   PMBoK: Program Management Body of Knowledge
   -   DoD Extension to the PMBoK

1.2. Websites.
   - Acquisition Program Management Career Field Resources: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/afp40/
USAF/ep/personalTab.do?command=global&channelPageId=-1992233&pageId=681742
   - Acquisition Management Career Field Education and Training Plan: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/afp40/USAF/ep/browse.do?categoryId=-1992242&parentCategoryId=-1992242&pageId=681742&
channelPageId=-1992233
     - Acquisition Career/APDP Resources (training site links and record review): https://www.my.af.mil
 /gcss-af/afp40/USAF/ep/personalTab.do?command=global&channelPageId=-2061051&pageId=681742


                                                  51
                                              PART II
                               Section D - TRAINING COURSE INDEX
1.    Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available in the Acquisition
Management Specialty.

2.      Entry-Level and AFSC Awarding Courses.

2.1       Completion of the following course is mandatory for the award of the entry-level AFSC, and
includes all new military and civilian accessions. The rest are required at the basic level and lead to Level
I certification in Program Management.

CRS NO./TITLE                                       LOCATION
FAM 103                                             AFIT/LSB, 3 weeks in-residence
Air Force Fundamentals of Acquisition Management (AFFAM)

2.1.1. Fundamentals of Acquisition Management Course. Provides training for Air Force officers
and civilians entering the Acquisition Management career field. The course provides students with a
foundation in acquisition management skills and an overview of the entire weapon systems acquisition
process, from requirements identification through pre-systems acquisition, systems acquisition, operations
and sustainment, and disposal. The course covers the entire acquisition process as outlined in key DOD-
level documents, with additional information on Air Force-specific processes and methodologies. The
course includes instruction on teaming, ethics, the acquisition professional development program, and
provides students with a working knowledge of all key functional disciplines and the defense acquisition
system. The course uses a combination of classroom lecture/discussion and group projects/exercises.

2.1.2. AFFAM includes ACQ 101 accomplishment (shown as FAM 101 if taken locally). This course
is the initial course for all acquisition functional disciplines and is mandatory for Level I certification in
Program Management. It is mandatory for cross flows below the grade of O-4 or GS-13 (or equivalent).

CRS NO./TITLE                                              LOCATION
ACQ 101                                                    On-line
Fundamentals of Systems Acquisition Management

2.1.3. Fundamentals of Systems Acquisition Management Course, ACQ 101. This course provides
a broad overview of the DoD systems acquisition process, covering all phases of acquisition. ACQ 101
introduces the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development Systems (JCIDS); Planning, Programming,
Budgeting and Execution (PPBE) process; DoD 5000 series policy documents; and current issues in
systems acquisition management. Designed for individuals who have little or no experience in DoD
acquisition management, ACQ 101 has proven very useful to personnel in headquarters, program
management, and functional or support offices. Required training for Level I certification in Program
Management. Incorporated into AFFAM. Recommended to complete prior to AFFAM.

CRS NO./TITLE                                       LOCATION
SYS 101                                             On-line
Fundamentals of Systems Planning, Research, Development and Engineering

2.1.4. Fundamentals of Systems Planning, Research Development and Engineering, SYS 101. This
course is a technically rigorous, comprehensive introduction to systems engineering and the various




                                                     52
technical management and technical processes involved in its application. Based around the 16 systems
engineering processes outlined in the Defense Acquisition Guidebook, SYS 101 provides the essential
foundations needed for Systems Planning, Research, Development and Engineering (SPRDE) careerists
and others to effectively participate in the application and the management of DoD systems engineering
processes and their activities.

CRS NO./TITLE                                             LOCATION
CLB 007                                                   On-line
Cost Analysis

2.1.5. Cost Analysis focuses on the basic cost analysis process. Cost estimates are one of the
fundamental building blocks of any acquisition program. At the end of this module, the student will be
able to define various financial management terms as they relate to the defense acquisition process,
determine when various cost estimates are required to be prepared, determine what estimating
methodology is most appropriate, and what cost data is of interest to various program stakeholders.

CRS NO./TITLE                                             LOCATION
CLB 016                                                   On-line
Introduction to Earned Value Management

2.1.6. Introduction to Earned Value Management focuses on basic cost estimating tools and
techniques. Cost estimates are one of the fundamental building blocks of the acquisition process. The
cost estimate and its supporting budget are a part of the baseline against which a program's progress and
success are measured.

3.      Proficiency and Qualified AFSC Awarding Courses.

3.1.     Completion of the following courses is required at the intermediate level and leads to Level II
certification in Program Management.

CRS NO./TITLE                                             LOCATION
ACQ 201A                                                  On-line
Intermediate Systems Acquisition, Part A

3.1.1. Intermediate Systems Acquisition, ACQ 201, Part A. Uses computer-based training to prepare
mid-level acquisition professionals to work in integrated product teams by understanding systems
acquisition principles and processes. Both ACQ 201A and ACQ 201B are required for DAWIA
certification. Students who successfully complete this course will: enhance their knowledge of the
business, technical, and managerial aspects of acquisition; understand and appreciate the critical role that
each functional discipline plays in the acquisition process; and using computer-based training,
theoretically participate in simulated integrated product teams to develop plans and resolve problems.
Officers and civilians should take ACQ 201 A/B between the 18th and 24th month of experience in their
first acquisition assignment.

CRS NO./TITLE                                             LOCATION
ACQ 201B                                                  In-residence, 5 days
Intermediate Systems Acquisition, Part B

3.1.2. Intermediate Systems Acquisition, ACQ 201, Part B. Prepares mid-level acquisition
professionals to work effectively in integrated product teams by understanding systems acquisition


                                                    53
principles and processes. Both ACQ 201A and ACQ 201B are required for DAWIA certification.
Students who successfully complete this course will: enhance and apply their knowledge of the business,
technical, and managerial aspects of acquisition; understand and appreciate the critical role that each
functional discipline plays in the acquisition process; and effectively participate in integrated product
teams and apply knowledge gained in ACQ 201A to develop plans and resolve problems.

CRS NO./TITLE                                            LOCATION
PMT 251 and PMT 257                                      On-line, followed by 4 day virtual classroom
Program Management Tools

3.1.3. Program Management Tools, PMT 251 and PMT 257. Provides application skills needed in a
program office or as an Integrated Product Team (IPT) lead. It is a follow-on to ACQ 201B and is
designed to enhance program management skills. It is required, along with ACQ 201B, for Level II
certification in Program Management (PM) and also prepares students for later work in the Level III
Program Management Office Course, PMT 352, Parts A and B. Students who successfully complete this
course will be able to: apply best practices for establishing effective IPTs; develop Work Breakdown
Structures (WBSs); build program schedules and apply risk management principles using state-of-the-
industry software; apply current cost estimating processes; perform contract planning and post-award
activities; and use earned value tools and techniques for program planning and control. Officers and
civilians should take PMT 251 and PMT 257 at around the 24-month point during the first acquisition
assignment. IPM 301 can be taken to fulfill these two courses.

CRS NO./TITLE                                            LOCATION
CON 115                                                  On-line
Contracting Fundamentals

3.1.4. Contracting Fundamentals, CON 115. Covers mission support planning strategies, how to
research the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation
Supplement (DFARS), how to conduct effective market research, how socioeconomic programs support
the acquisition planning process and how to execute acquisition planning through solicitation and contract
award. Instruction will also include benefits of early industry involvement in shaping requirements, basic
procedures for acquisition of commercial and noncommercial requirements, how to conduct basic
competitive acquisitions, how to process awards, how to handle protests before and after contract award,
how to identify and evaluate contractor performance metrics and performance remedies, how to process
contract changes, handle disputes and how to close out completed contracts.

CRS NO./TITLE                                            LOCATION
SAM 101                                                  On-line
Basic Software Acquisition Management

3.1.5. Basic Software Acquisition Management, SAM 101. Covers introductory-level concepts in
DoD information systems acquisition management. It covers software acquisition/development risks,
DoD regulatory and technical frameworks, software and system architectures, and software development
life cycle and integration processes. Software standards, measurements, testing, security, quality issues,
process maturity, as well as best practices for the management of software-intensive systems are also
reviewed. SAM 101 or IRM 101 is required for Level II certification in Program Management.




                                                   54
CRS NO./TITLE                                            LOCATION
IRM 101                                                  On-line
Basic Information Systems Acquisition

3.1.6. Basic Information Systems Acquisition, IRM 101. Within the framework of a program office
IPT, this course covers introductory-level concepts in DoD information systems and software acquisition
management. Key areas covered include DoD regulatory and technical frameworks, common software
risks, software and system architectures, lifecycle reviews and software development and integration
processes. Software standards, information assurance, software and system measures, testing, contracting
issues, software quality, and the role of process maturity, as well as best practices for the management of
software-intensive systems are also introduced. SAM 101 or IRM 101 is required for Level II
certification in Program Management.

CRS NO./TITLE                                            LOCATION
IPM 301                                                  AFIT in-residence, 9 days
Intermediate Project Management

3.1.7. Intermediate Project Management, IPM 301. Provides Air Force officers and civilians a
deeper foundation in everyday project management skills. More advanced project management topics are
addressed using a combination of in-class lectures and discussions, project management readings and case
studies, and individual/group exercises. Topics include: business case analysis, stakeholder management,
communications management, time management, project planning, project execution and status reporting,
project recovery, and transferring project management responsibility. The centerpiece of the course is a
dynamic project management simulation, which integrates and applies these project management topics.
IPM 301 builds on basic project management education newcomers to acquisition receive in the AF
Fundamentals of Acquisition Management (AFFAM) course. This course should be completed after
approximately 30 months of acquisition experience and preferably not later than 36 months. This course
is mandatory for all acquisition managers with less than 48 months of program management experience.
This course fulfills PMT 251 and PMT 257.
4.      Advanced Acquisition Management Courses.
4.1    Completion of the following courses is mandatory for all military and civilian acquisition
managers, and leads to Level III certification in Program Management.

CRS NO./TITLE                                      LOCATION
BCF 102                                            On-line
Fundamental of Earned Value Management (Beginning in FY13, this course will be listed as EVM 101)

4.1.1. Fundamental of Earned Value Management. The course summarizes the language, data
reports, metrics, graphs, and management processes associated with EVM as they apply to DoD
acquisition management. Students learn the processes related to the Performance Measurement Baseline,
the Integrated Baseline Review, and the American National Standards Institute/Electronic Industries
Alliance (ANSI/EIA) for EVM systems. Additionally, students evaluate and compute basic EVM metrics
and EVM metric-based estimates at completion.

CRS NO./TITLE                                            LOCATION
BCF 103                                                  On-line
Fundamental of Business Financial Management



                                                    55
4.1.2. Fundamentals of Business Financial Management. This course helps students develop the
skills necessary for formulating and executing a program office budget. Topics covered in this course
include cost analysis; funding policies; the DoD planning, programming, budgeting, and execution
process; the congressional enactment process; and the budget execution process.

CRS NO./TITLE                                             LOCATION
LOG 103                                                   On-line
Reliability, Availability, and Maintainability (RAM)

4.1.3. Reliability, Availability, and Maintainability (RAM). This course helps students understand
the relationship between reliability, availability and maintainability (RAM) as a critical factor in design,
performance, cost, and sustainment. The course addresses the cross-disciplinary actions of Program
Management, Systems Engineering, Test & Evaluation and both acquisition logistics and sustainment to
evaluate the impact of reliability and maintainability decisions. Stressing a conceptual approach, the
course presents basic reliability, availability and maintainability terminology and engineering practices. It
discusses current legislative and DoD policy that have invigorated systems engineering and logistics
engineering processes to improve the requirements process, minimize risk through reliability growth
programs and ensure effectiveness and suitability through developmental and operational test and
evaluation.

CRS NO./TITLE                                        LOCATION
SYS 202                                              On-line
Intermediate Systems Planning, Research, Development and Engineering, Part 1

4.1.4. Intermediate Systems Planning, Research, Development and Engineering, Part 1, SYS 202.
This journeyman-level technical course provides an understanding of how the DoD systems engineering
(SE) processes can be applied within the context of the activities illustrated on the DAU Integrated
Defense Acquisition, Technology, & Logistics Life Cycle Management Framework chart. Course content
includes the scope and role of SE and its key technical inputs and outputs, the key aspects of technical
baselines and the role of technical reviews, and important design considerations. Students who
successfully complete this course will be able to: outline SE activities in the context of the various life
cycle phases of the Defense acquisition framework; understand the scope of SE and its relationship to
other program management functions across the life cycle; list important design considerations and their
impacts; and understand the linkage of technical reviews to technical program management. Officers and
civilians should take SYS 202 between their 4th and 8th year of acquisition experience.

CRS NO./TITLE                                             LOCATION
PMT 352A                                                  On-line
Project Management Office Course, Part A

4.1.5. Program Management Office Course, PMT 352A. It is designed to train Level II qualified
students to be effective PM Level III leaders in a program office by honing analysis, synthesis, and
evaluative skills. PMT 352A focuses on key PMO knowledge and skills not covered in the prerequisite
courses. This course must be completed prior to attending PMT 352B. Students who successfully
complete this course will be able to: describe the role of science and technology in supporting the system
acquisition process; understand Information Technology (IT) policy, best practices, information
assurance measures, and interoperability considerations; describe current manufacturing and logistics
concepts and best practices, such as lean manufacturing and supply chain management; and explain
appropriate management and decision-making models to aid in addressing various acquisition program



                                                     56
issues (business and financial; international; environmental, safety, and health; etc.). This course should
be completed after approximately 8 years of acquisition experience.

CRS NO./TITLE                                            LOCATION
PMT 352B                                                 In-residence, 4 weeks
Project Management Office Course, Part B.

4.1.6. Program Management Office Course, PMT 352B. PMT 352B features scenario-based
practical exercises with topical themes, such as interoperability, prototyping, and evolutionary
acquisition. Students who successfully complete this course will be able to: lead and contribute to
effective teams in a DoD PMO; apply critical-thinking and problem-solving skills to systems acquisition
problems throughout a defense systems life cycle; understand, analyze, and develop solutions to cost,
schedule, and performance issues faced in defense program management; and evaluate the tradeoffs in
program decisions in compliance with DoD 5000 Series directives. This course should be completed after
approximately 8 years of acquisition experience.

4.2     The following are post-Level III assignment-specific courses:

CRS NO./TITLE                                            LOCATION
PMT 403                                                  In-residence, Ft. Belvoir; 10 class days
Program Manager’s Skills Course

4.2.1. Program Manager’s Skills Course, PMT 403. An assignment-specific course designed to meet
the learning and performance needs of newly selected ACAT III Program Managers. During the Program
Manager’s Skills course, students assess their program and personal skills, update their functional
knowledge, and examine lessons learned from recent programs. PMT 403 focuses on the use of the
survival skills necessary to manage an ACAT III DoD acquisition program effectively. Students who
successfully complete this course will be able to: identify and prioritize the top issues they will face
during their first 6 to 12 months as an ACAT III program manager; create a plan, including resources and
metrics, to address those issues; and understand how the current acquisition system operates and know
how to operate effectively within it.

CRS NO./TITLE                                            LOCATION
PMT 401                                                  In-residence, Ft. Belvoir; 10 weeks
The Program Manager’s Course

4.2.2. The Program Manager’s Course, PMT 401. An intense, highly integrated 10-week case-study-
based learning experience. Group discussions, distinguished guest practitioners, team projects, exercises,
simulations, study groups, and an elective program enable the learner to customize a portion of the
course. Time will be available to internalize the material through independent study and informal work
with peers. Course content will rely upon challenges, problems, and dilemmas derived from extensive
current interviews with Program Managers (PMs), Program Executive Officers (PEOs), and other
stakeholders. The dilemmas will be those that course graduates can expect to confront when they return
to their workplaces. Learners who successfully complete this course will be able to: apply critical
thinking when confronted by problems and dilemmas on a day-to-day basis; lead and integrate disparate
functional groups and develop a cohesive team capable of coping with the complex problems common to
Program Management Offices (PMOs) and PEOs; and identify and apply best business practices to
achieve win-win relationships with industry partners. PMT 401 is a statutory prerequisite for PMT 402.

CRS NO./TITLE                                            LOCATION


                                                    57
PMT 402                                                    In-residence, Ft. Belvoir; 20 class days
The Executive Program Manager’s Course

4.2.3. Executive Program Manager’s Course, PMT 402. An assignment-specific course designed to
meet the learning and performance needs of newly selected Program Executive Officers (PEOs), Deputy
PEOs (DPEOs), and ACAT I (ID/IC and IAM/IAC) and II Program Managers (PMs)/Deputy Program
Managers (DPMs). Skills and behaviors are developed through a concentrated 4-week resident period
preceded by approximately 60 days of self-assessment and assessment of your program and program
office. Students who successfully complete this course will be able to: complete a comprehensive
assessment of their programs, program offices, and of themselves; identify program and program office
issues; fill knowledge needs and work issues; and develop a plan of action to better manage their
programs, program offices, and professional development. PMT 402 is a statutory requirement upon
selection to an ACAT I/II Program Manager, Deputy Program Manager or PEO position.

5.       Enhancement and Currency Training. Talk to your supervisor about acquisition-related
courses or events would be right to develop your skills and maintain proficiency. Use the Core Plus
recommended courses shown in the development guide which are most applicable to your assignment.
As an acquisition professional you are required to achieve 80 continuous learning (CL) points every two
years to maintain professional currency. Guidance can be found at: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/browse.do?programId=t6925EC2E48B80FB5E044080020E329A9&channelPageId=s6925E
C1348B50FB5E044080020E329A9. Air Force acquisition personnel are required to record their CL
points       for      credit      using       the       on-line     ACQ        Now       CL      system
(https://www.atrrs.army.mil/channels/acqnowcl/). Currency, as documented in ACQ Now CL, may be
used as a screening criterion for Air Force acquisition awards and career development programs.

5.1      Assignment-Specific Training Courses. "Assignment-specific" training builds upon the
foundation established through certification training by addressing job-specific needs for the current
position, mission area and program situation. Refer to the DAU and AFIT catalogs, Core Plus
recommendations, and to the assignment-specific training page at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/afp40/USAF/ep/browse.do?categoryId=-2061061&parentCategoryId=-2061061&pageId=681742&
channelPageId=-2061051 for training tailored to your role or your mission area. This training can span
several functional areas -- don't restrict yourself to "PM" courses.

5.1.1. AFIT School of Systems and Logistics (AFIT/LS). AFIT/LS offers online and resident
professional continuing education in a range of acquisitions topics. Registration is available at AFIT
Now: https://www.atrrs.army.mil/channels/afitnow/

5.1.2. Defense Acquisition University (DAU): DAU provides a full range of basic, intermediate,
advanced, certification and assignment-specific courses to support the position requirements, career goals
and professional development of the AT&L Workforce. In addition, DAU offers a wide range of
continuous learning modules online to meet currency needs of the acquisition professional. It is in the
best interest of the trainee to take classes in other acquisition function areas to gain a better understanding
of those areas and make them a more knowledgeable program manager. See latest Core Plus guidance for
recommended modules according to assignment type. Full information and course descriptions can also
be found at http://www.dau.mil/.

Course registration can be found here: https://www.atrrs.army.mil/channels/acqnow/




                                                      58
ACQUISITION MANAGERS CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
2012 EDITION

BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL

                                       PATRICK M. HOGAN
                                       Director, Acquisition Career Management
                                       Assistant Secretary (Acquisition)




                                  59
