DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                               CFETP 3E0X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                                  Parts I and II
Washington DC 20330-5000                                                     1 Oct 2007




                                              AFSC 3E0X1


                                       ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS




                                                MASTER




                    BASIC                                                     SENIOR

                                     CAREER FIELD
                              EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at www.e-
publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
             CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                     ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS SPECIALTY
                                 3E0X1


                                   Table of Contents

Preface                                                     4

Abbreviations/Terms Explained                               5

Part I

Section A - General Information                             9
     Purpose
     Uses
     Coordination and Approval

Section B - Career Field Progression and Information        11
     Specialty Descriptions
     Skill/Career Progression
          Apprentice (3-Level)
          Journeyman (5-Level)
          Craftsman (7-Level)
          Superintendent (9-Level)
          Civil Engineer Manager
     Training Decisions
     Additional Off-duty Education
     Community College of the Air Force Academic Programs
     Career Field Path

Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements               23
     Purpose
     Specialty Qualification Requirements
         Apprentice (3-Level)
         Journeyman (5-Level)
         Craftsman (7-Level)
         Superintendent (9-Level)
         Civil Engineer Manager

Section D - Resource Constraints                            31
     Purpose
     Training Constraints

Section E - Transition Training Guide                       32




                                              2
PART II

Section A - Specialty Training Standard                           33
       Implementation
       Purpose
       Recommendations
       Qualitative Requirements
       3E0X1 Specialty Training Standard
       AFQTP Documentation Record

Section B - Course Objective List                                 62

Section C - Support Materials                                     63

Section D - Training Course Index                                 64

Section E - Major Command (MAJCOM)-Unique Requirements            65

Section F - Home Station Training                                 66




____________________________________
Supersedes CFETP3E0X1, 30 July 2002               Certified by: HQ AFCESA/CEO
OPR: 366 TRS/TRRT                                 Pages: 81

                                           3
                                          PREFACE

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for this specialty. The CFETP will provide
personnel a clear career path to success and instill rigor in all aspects of career field training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts used by supervisors to plan, manage, and control training
within the career field.

     2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty.

           2.1.1. Section A provides general information about how the CFETP will be used.

           2.1.2. Section B identifies career field progression information, duties and
           responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path.

           2.1.3. Section C associates each skill level with specialty qualifications (knowledge,
           education, and training).

           2.1.4. Section D indicates resource constraints.

           2.1.5. Section E identifies transition training guide requirements for SSgt through
           MSgt.

     2.2. Part II includes the following:

           2.2.1. Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) to include duties,
           tasks, and technical references to support Air Education and Training Command
           (AETC)-conducted training, wartime course, and correspondence course requirements.

           2.2.2. Section B contains the course objective list and training standards supervisors
           will use to determine if airmen satisfy training requirements.

           2.2.3. Section C identifies available support materials. Air Force Qualification
           Training Packages (AFQTPs) and CerTests support both Upgrade Training (UGT) and
           qualification training.

           2.2.4. Section D identifies a training course index supervisors can use to determine
           resources available to support training. Included here are both mandatory and optional
           courses, and exportable courseware.

           2.2.5. Section E identifies MAJCOM-unique training requirements supervisors can
           use to determine additional training required for the associated qualification needs.

           2.2.6. Section F identifies home station training references and courses material
           required for this specialty in support of contingency/wartime training.

                                                   4
3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive
effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their careers. This plan will enable us to
train today’s work force for tomorrow’s jobs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part
II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this guide.

                            ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Distributive Learning (ADL). Anytime, anyplace learning within DoD consisting of
instructional modules comprised of sharable content objectives in an Internet/Intranet
environment.

Advanced Training (AT). A formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in one
or more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance
their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career airmen at the advanced level of
the AFS.

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). An individual on the Air Staff charged with the
responsibility for overseeing all training and career field management aspects of an Air Force
specialty or group of specialties.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard/Command Job Qualification Standard
(AFJQS/CJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a particular job type or duty position.
Used by supervisors to document task qualifications. The tasks on the AFJQS/CJQS are common
to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Air Force Qualification Training Package (AFQTP). An instructional package designed for
use at the unit to qualify, or aid qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of
equipment. AFQTPs identify the Air Force’s standardized method for performing the task. The
AFQTP may be printed (paper-based), computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.

Air Force Training Record (AFTR). A web-based relational database used to track personnel’s
upgrade training requirements.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A comprehensive, multipurpose
document encapsulating the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field. It outlines
a logical growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career field training
identifiable, to eliminate duplication, and to ensure this training is budget defensible.

Certification and Testing (CerTest). A multi-media evaluation program used to test an
individual’s knowledge of principles and procedures in their career field.

Commercial Off The Shelf (COTS). Commercially-procured training products.

Computer-Based Training (CBT). A self-paced stand-alone computer product used to deliver
interactive subject and task knowledge.

Continuation Training. Additional training exceeding requirements with emphasis on present
and future duty assignments.
                                                   5
Core Task. A task Air Force Career Field Managers (AFCFMs) identified as a minimum
qualification requirement within an Air Force specialty or duty position. These tasks exemplify
the essence of the career field.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication derived from initial/advanced skills course training
standard, identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective standards provided to
achieve a 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to assist in
conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Developing, Managing, and
Conducting Training.

Critical Task. Tasks that have been identified by the work center supervisor as having a
detrimental effect on mission accomplishment if not performed correctly. Critical tasks may or
may not be the same as core tasks but are mandatory if identified as ‘critical’ to the individual’s
position by the supervisor or work center.

Diamond Tasks (♦ ). Diamond tasks are extremely important to the career field. Diamond tasks
are the same as core tasks with one exception--equipment shortfalls at most locations have created
problems with the actual hands-on certification of these tasks. In instances where required
equipment is not available for instruction, completion of the task’s AFQTP and passing the
corresponding CerTest is all that is required for upgrade training. Document the AFQTP documentation
record once the AFQTP/CerTest is completed. Document the STS only if hands-on certification was
accomplished. Hands-on certification shall be accomplished at the first opportunity when equipment
is available.

Distance Learning (DL). Includes Video Teleseminar (VTS), Video Teletraining (VTT), and
Computer-Based Training (CBT). Formal courses that a training wing or a contractor develops for
export to a field location (in place of resident training) for trainees to complete without the on-site
support of the formal school instructor. For instance, courses are offered by Air Force Institute of
Technology, Air University, and Training Detachment.

Duty Position Task. The tasks assigned to an individual for the position currently held. These
include as a minimum all core tasks, critical tasks, and any other tasks assigned by the supervisor.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer-assisted, paper text, interactive video, or
other necessary means to supplement training.

Field Technical Training (Type 4). Special or regular on-site training conducted by a Field
Training Detachment (FTD) or by a Mobile Training Team (MTT).

Initial Skills Training. AFS-specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force
or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. Normally, this training is
conducted by AETC at one of the technical training wings.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly, but flexible, process for
planning, developing, implementing, and managing
                                              6
                                                 instructional systems. It ensures personnel are
taught in a cost-efficient way the knowledge, skills, and attitudes essential for successful job
performance.

Just-In-Time (JIT) Training. Training required just prior to a select deployment that delivers
training necessary for mission accomplishment. It is typically predicated on hard to attain
contingency skills

Occupational Survey Report (OSR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational
survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify
personnel in both upgrade (skill-level award) and job qualification (duty position certification)
training.

Optimal Training. The ideal combination of training settings resulting in the highest levels of
proficiency on specified performance requirements within the minimum time possible.

Proficiency Training. Additional training, either in-residence, exportable advanced training
courses, or on-the-job training provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond
the minimum required for upgrade.

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an
individual in a specific duty position. This portion of the dual channel on-the-job training program
occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the
performance skills required to do the job.

Readiness Training Package (RTP). Establishes standard levels of knowledge and proficiency
for common Disaster Preparedness and Readiness subject areas by providing instructors with
training references, materials, and lesson objectives used in teaching and evaluating the course
subject matter.

Representative Sites. Typical organizational units having similar missions, weapon systems or
equipment, or a set of jobs, used as a basis for estimating average training capacities and costs
within the Training Impact Decision System (TIDES).

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, or
equipment that precludes desired training from being delivered.

Skills Training. A formal course resulting in the award of a skill level.

Specialty Training. A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (on-the-
job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in the award of a skill level.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). Describes skills and knowledge that airmen in a particular
AFS need on the job. It further serves as a contract between the Air Education and Training
Command (AETC) and the user to show the overall training requirements for an AFS taught in the
resident and nonresident courses.

                                                   7
Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, established and defined by
authority, custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring
quantities or qualities, establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results;. a fixed quantity
or quality.

Supplemental Training. Training for a portion of an AFS without a change in AFSC. Formal
training on new equipment, methods, and technology that are not suited for on-the-job training.

Total Force. All collective Air Force components (active duty, Reserve, Guard, and civilian
elements) of the United States Air Force.

Training Capacity. The capability of a training setting to provide training on specified
requirements, based on the availability of resources.

Training Planning Team (TPT). Comprised of the same personnel as a U&TW; however, TPTs
are more intimately involved in training development and the range of issues is greater than is
normal in the U&TW forum.

Training Requirements Analysis. A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFS to be
included in the training decision process.

Upgrade Training (UGT). Identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, and
correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 5-, 7-, and 9-skill levels.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum of the AFCFM, MAJCOM Functional
Managers (MFMs), Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training personnel that determines
career ladder training requirements.




                                                   8
                                               PART I

                           SECTION A - GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Purpose. This CFETP provides information necessary for the Air Force Career Field
Managers (AFCFMs), MAJCOM functional managers (MFMs), commanders, education and
training managers, supervisors/trainer, and certifiers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an
effective career field training program. This plan outlines the training individuals require to
develop and progress throughout their careers. It identifies initial skills, upgrade, qualification,
advanced, and proficiency training.

     1.1. Initial skills training. Is the AFS-specific training an individual receives upon entry
     into the Air Force or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level.
     Normally, this training is conducted by AETC at one of the technical training wings.

     1.2. Upgrade training. Identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements,
     and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 5-, 7-, and 9-skill
     levels.

     1.3. Qualification training. Is actual hands-on task performance training designed to
     qualify an airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and
     after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance
     skills/knowledge required to do the job.

     1.4. Advanced training. Is a formal course that provides individuals who are qualified in
     one or more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to
     enhance their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career airmen at the
     advanced level of the AFS.

     1.5. Proficiency training. Is additional training, either in-residence, exportable advanced
     training courses, or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and
     knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade.

2. The CFETP has several purposes:

     2.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field
     training program. It is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in
     an individual’s career.

     2.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty
     and recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.

     2.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty and identifies sources of training and
     training delivery methods.

     2.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired
     career field training process.

                                                   9
3. Uses. MFMs and supervisors will use the plan at all levels to ensure comprehensive and
cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

     3.1. AETC training personnel will develop/revise formal resident, nonresident, field, and
     exportable training based on requirements established by the users and documented in Part II
     of the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM, Air Force Civil Engineer Support
     Agency Force Development Division (HQ AFCESA/CEOF) to develop acquisition strategies
     for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified training.

     3.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement CFETP mandatory initial,
     upgrade, and proficiency requirements and identify requirements that can be satisfied by
     OJT, resident training, contract training, CerTest, or exportable courses. MAJCOM-
     developed training to support this AFS must be identified for inclusion into the plan.

     3.3. Unit Education and Training managers and supervisors must ensure each individual
     completes the mandatory training requirements (including MAJCOM supplemental
     requirements) for the upgrade training specified in this plan.

     3.4. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this
     plan. The lists of courses in Part II in this CFETP will be used as a reference to support
     training.

4. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority for the CFETP.
MAJCOM representatives and AETC personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field
training requirements. The AETC training manager for this specialty will initiate an annual review
of this document by AETC personnel, Career Field Manager and Major Command Functional
Managers to ensure currency and accuracy. Using the list of courses in Part II, they will eliminate
duplicate training.




                                                10
      SECTION B - CAREER FIELD PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION

5. Specialty Descriptions. Electrical Systems Apprentice, Journeyman, Craftsman, and
Superintendent.

     5.1. Installs, inspects, maintains, troubleshoots, repairs, and modifies high and low voltage
     (above and below 600 volts), electrical distribution systems and components; airfield
     lighting systems; fire alarms and complies with environmental and safety regulations and
      practices. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 172100

    5.2. Duties and Responsibilities for Apprentice, Journeyman, and Craftsman.

          5.2.1. Installs, maintains, and repairs energized and de-energized electrical
          distribution systems and components.

                5.2.1.1. Installs, maintains, and repairs high and low voltage, overhead and
                underground, electrical power distribution systems and components such as
                capacitor banks, vacuum and air break switches, breakers, transformers, fuses,
                lighting fixtures, receptacles, and motors.

                5.2.1.2. Climbs utility poles and operates special purpose vehicles and
                equipment (including line maintenance and high reach trucks) to inspect,
                maintain, and repair overhead distribution systems.

                5.2.1.3. Inspects power line poles for pest damage, deterioration, and loose
                hardware.

                5.2.1.4. Inspects, tests, and services overhead line conductors, direct buried
                cables and those in underground ducts and conduits.

                5.2.1.5. Troubleshoots malfunctions using technical orders, manufacturer’s
                handbooks, local procedures, codes, and directives.

                5.2.1.6. Test air samples in manholes for dangerous concentrations of
                combustible or toxic gases and oxygen deficiency.

                5.2.1.7. Maintains proficiency in first aid, cardiopulmonary resuscitation
                (CPR), pole top, aerial lift, and manhole rescue.

                5.2.1.8. Complies with safety and environmental regulations and
                practices.

          5.2.2. Gives advice on electrical power distribution and special purpose
          electrical systems installation and repair problems




                                                11
           5.2.2.1. Solves complex maintenance problems by studying layout
           drawings, wiring and schematic diagrams, and by analyzing construction
           and operating characteristics.

           5.2.2.2. Uses meters, testing devices, indicators, and recorders to locate
           equipment, distribution, and motor controller malfunctions and faults.

           5.2.2.3. Diagnoses malfunctions and recommends repair procedures
           necessary to correct defective equipment.

           5.2.3.4. Develops and establishes maintenance and operating procedures
           to ensure maximum efficiency.

           5.2.3.5. Supervises and manages people and resources.

      5.2.3. Performs planning activities.

           5.2.3.1. Performs facility surveys.

           5.2.3.2. Surveys proposed work to determine resources requirements.

           5.2.3.3. Prepares cost estimates for in-service work.

           5.2.3.4. Applies engineered performance standards to plan and estimate jobs.

           5.2.3.5. Coordinates plans and other activities with other civil engineer
           sections and base units.

      5.2.4. Performs inspection activities.

           5.2.4.1. Attends site visits.

            5.2.4.2. Performs pre-acceptance inspections of Electrical systems.

5.3. Duties and Responsibilities for Superintendent. Manages resources and activities
devoted to installation, operation, maintenance, and repair of high and low voltage power
distribution systems, electrical power generating and control systems, fire alarms,
airfield lighting systems, and aircraft arresting systems. Related DoD
Occupational Subgroup: 172100

      5.3.1. Plans and organizes electrical activities.

           5.3.1.1. Programs and coordinates electrical power outages, maintenance, and
           repair requirements with users.

           5.3.1.2. Performs planning activities and facility surveys. Determines resources
           requirements by conducting on-site investigations of proposed work.

                                               12
     5.3.1.3. Prepares cost estimates for in-service work requests.

     5.3.1.4. Applies engineered performance standards in planning and estimating
     jobs.

     5.3.1.5. Coordinates plans with civil engineering and other agencies as required.

5.3.2. Manages functions in electrical systems and power production activities.

     5.3.2.1. Directs the installation/removal, operation, maintenance, and repair of
     electrical power distribution systems, above and below 600 volts and electrical
     power generating and control systems activities including overhead and
     underground distribution systems, power plant operations, fire alarms,
     airfield lighting systems, and aircraft arresting systems.

     5.3.2.2. Identifies and controls requisitioning of systems, parts, fuels, lubricants,
     bench stock, and technical publications.

     5.3.2.3. Ensures productivity and work compliance.

     5.3.2.4. Monitors electrical generating unit records and analyzes for organization,
     intermediate, or depot level maintenance, and preparation of maintenance forms,
     reports, and records.

     5.3.2.5. Issues and logs safe clearance procedures for all crafts that maintain
     electrical systems and power production equipment.

     5.3.2.6. Ensures compliance with environmental and safety regulations and
     practices.

5.3.3. Inspects and evaluates electrical systems and power production activities to
ensure compliance with policies and regulations.

     5.3.3.1. Assists in solving maintenance, supply, and personnel problems.

     5.3.3.2. Interprets inspection findings and initiates corrective action.

     5.3.3.3. Ensures certification of personnel as required




                                      13
6. Skill/Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to
the superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force's ability to accomplish its
mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training do his or her part to plan, manage, and
conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will
ensure individuals receive viable training at appropriate points in their careers.

     6.1. Apprentice (3-Level).

           6.1.1. Upon completion of initial skills training, a trainee will work with a trainer to
           enhance their knowledge and skills.

           6.1.2. Utilize the Career Development Course (CDC), CE Common Core 3-level
           Distance Learning (DL) product, Air Force Qualification Training Packages (AFQTPs)
           and other exportable courses for subject and task fundamentals in the career field.
           Successfully complete applicable CerTests.

           6.1.3. Once trained and task certified, a trainee may perform the task unsupervised.

           6.1.4. After all upgrade training requirements are completed, supervisors and Unit
           Education and Training Managers (UETMs) coordinate upgrade procedures.

           6.1.5. NOTE: All trainees are automatically enrolled in the Community College of the
           Air Force (CCAF) when awarded their primary AFSC.

     6.2. Journeyman (5-Level).

           6.2.1. Enter into continuation training to broaden experience base.

           6.2.2. 5-Levels may be assigned job positions such as team leader and shift supervisor.

           6.2.3. Will attend the Airman Leadership School (ALS) after serving 48 months in the
           Air Force (active duty only). Either the in-residence or correspondence course is
           required for Air Reserve Component (ARC) personnel.

           6.2.4. Will use CDCs and other reference material to prepare for Weighted Airman
           Performance Systems (WAPS) testing.

           6.2.5. Should continue pursuing a CCAF degree.

           6.2.6. After all upgrade training requirements are complete, supervisors and UETMs
           coordinate upgrade procedures.




                                                  14
6.3. Craftsman (7-Level).

     6.3.1. Completion of CE Common Core 7-level DL product, 100% core/diamond task
     completion, and graduation from the resident 7-level Craftsman Course (when
     implemented) are basic prerequisites for award of the 7-level.

     6.3.2. A craftsman may expect to fill various supervisory and management positions
     such as shift leader, mobility team chief, production supervisor, or task certifier.

     6.3.3. Seven-levels should take continuation training courses or obtain additional
     knowledge on management of resources and personnel.

     6.3.4. Continued academic education through CCAF and higher degree programs is
     encouraged.

     6.3.5. Will attend the Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA) after promotion to
     TSgt (active duty only). Either the in-residence or correspondence course is required
     for ARC personnel.

     6.3.6. After all upgrade training requirements are complete, supervisors and UETMs
     coordinate upgrade procedures.

6.4. Superintendent (9-Level).

     6.4.1. Must be a SMSgt for award of the 9-skill level.

     6.4.2. A 9-level can be expected to fill positions such as flight chief, zone
     superintendents, and various staff positions.

     6.4.3. Should pursue increased knowledge of budget, manpower, resources, and
     personnel management.

     6.4.4. Recommend the pursuit of additional higher education and completion of
     courses outside of their career AFS.

     6.4.5. Completion of the Civil Engineer Superintendent Course (AFIT WMGT 570) is
     highly recommended.

     6.4.6. Will attend the Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy (SNCOA) after
     selection for promotion to SMSgt (active duty only). A percentage of top nonselect
     (for promotion to E-8) MSgts attend SNCOA each year. Either the in-residence or
     correspondence course is required for Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard
     personnel.

6.5. Civil Engineer Manager.


                                           15
           6.5.1. Must be selected for CMSgt and possess qualifications in a feeder specialty
           (3E090, 3E191, 3E291, 3E391, 3E490, 3E591, or 3E691).

           6.5.2. Will work in a variety of similar jobs and functional areas where general
           managerial and supervisory abilities can be most effectively used and challenged.

           6.5.3. Resident graduation of the USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA) is a
           prerequisite for CMSgt sew-on (active duty only). In residence or correspondence
           course required for ARC personnel.

           6.5.4. Completion of the Chief Leadership Course is mandatory. This course is the
           final level of enlisted PME.


7. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Electrical Systems career field.
The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet the training requirements.
The strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce duplication of training and eliminate a
disjointed approach to training. The following decisions were made at the career field Utilization
& Training Workshop (U&TW) held at Sheppard AFB, TX in Mar 2005.

     7.1. Initial Skills Training. The initial skills course was reviewed for content. Additions,
     deletions, and modifications were made to the course. Wartime training tasks were
     identified. Additional contingency training was also identified.

     7.2. Five-Level Upgrade Training Requirements. Existing CDCs were reviewed and
     scrubbed to ensure only current material remained and new technology information was
     added.

     7.3. Seven-Level Upgrade Training Requirements. Seven-level training requirements
     were reviewed.

     7.4. Proficiency Training.

           7.4.1. Any additional knowledge and skill requirements that were not taught through
           initial skills or upgrade training are assigned as continuation training.

           7.4.2. Purpose of continuation training is to provide training exceeding minimum
           upgrade training requirements with emphasis on present and future duty positions.

           7.4.3. MAJCOMs must develop a continuation-training program that ensures
           individuals in the Electrical Systems career field receive the necessary training at the
           appropriate point in their careers.

           7.4.4. The training program will identify both mandatory and optional training
           requirements.


                                                 16
7.5. Supplemental Training. Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) and the Training Committee
reviewed supplemental training courses for technical accuracy and identified training that was no
longer required. They revalidated the remaining courses as necessary to fully support career
progression in the AFS.

7.6. CerTest. Originally, the CerTest program was developed to support transition training, and
meet DoD certification requirements. Now, it is also the singular platform to launch AFQTP tests
and supplement the evaluation of OJT.

8. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Academic Programs. Airmen are
automatically enrolled in CCAF when awarded their primary AFSC. CCAF provides the
opportunity to obtain an Associates in Applied Sciences Degree. In addition to its associates
degree program, CCAF offers the following:

     8.1. Occupational Instructor Certification. Upon completion of instructor qualification
     training (consisting of the Instructor Methods course and supervised practice teaching),
     CCAF instructors possessing an associates degree or higher may be nominated by their
     school commander/commandant for certification as an occupational instructor.

     8.2. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill
     certification is awarded for the primary occupational specialty. The College uses a
     competency-based assessment process for trade skill certification at one of four proficiency
     levels: Apprentice, Journeyman, Craftsman/Supervisor, or Master Craftsman/Manager. All
     are transcribed on the CCAF transcript.

     8.3. The Mechanical and Electrical Technology Associates Degree (4VGA)
     applies to AFSC 3E0X1.

           8.3.1. Degree Requirements. Prior to completing an Associates Degree, the
           individual must be awarded a 5-level and the following requirements must be met:

                 Course                                                Semester Hours

                 Technical Education                                            24
                 Leadership, Management, and Military Studies                    6
                 Physical Education                                              4
                 General Education                                              15
                 Program Elective                                               15
                 Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and
                 Military Studies; or General Education

                 Total                                                          64

           8.3.2. Technical Education. (24 Semester Hours) A minimum of 12 semester
           hours of Technical Core subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining semester
           hours applied from Technical Core/Technical Elective courses.

                 Technical Core Requirements                           Semester Hours
                                                17
      CCAF Internship                                           18
      Electrical Power Production                               20
      Electrical Systems                                        20
      Heating Systems                                           20
      Refrigeration and Air Conditioning                        20


      Technical Electives                                  Semester Hours

      Air Distribution and Filtering Systems                      3
      Alternate Heating and Cooling                               3
      Blueprint Reading/Schematic Diagrams                        6
      Building Codes and Ordinance                                3
      Computer Science                                            6
      Control Systems/Maintenance                                 6
      Electricity/Electronics                                     9
      Engine Principles                                           3
      Environmental Awareness                                     3
      Environmental Compliance                                    3
      Industrial Management                                       3
      Industrial Safety                                           3
      Motor, Starter, and Control Devices                         6
      Quality Assurance                                           3
      Technical Mathematics (College Algebra or Higher)           3
      Technical Physics                                           4
      Technical Writing                                           3
      Welding and Pipefitting                                     3

8.3.3. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours).
Professional military education and civilian management courses accepted in transfer.
Credit is also earned by testing.

8.3.4. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours). This requirement is satisfied by
completion of PHE 1000- Basic Training.

8.3.5. General Education (15 Semester Hours). Applicable courses must meet the
criteria for application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and
be in agreement with the definitions of applicable general education subjects/courses as
provided in the CCAF General Catalog.

      General Education                                    Semester Hours

      Oral Communication                                              3
      Speech
      Written Communication                                           3
      English Composition

                                     18
                 Mathematics                                                     3
                 An intermediate algebra or a college-level mathematics
                 course that satisfies the delivering institution’s
                 mathematics requirement for graduation. If an
                 acceptable mathematics course is applied as a
                 Technical or Program Elective, a natural science
                 course may be substituted for mathematics.

                 Social Science                                                  3
                 Anthropology, Archaeology, Economics, Geography,
                 Government, History, Political Science, Psychology,
                 Sociology

                 Humanities                                                      3
                 Fine Arts (criticism, appreciation, historical significance),
                 foreign language, literature, philosophy, religion

           8.3.6. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours). Courses applicable to the technical
           education; leadership, management, and military studies; or general education
           requirements. Natural science courses that meet the general education requirement
           (GER) application criteria. Foreign language credit earned at the Defense Language
           Institute or through the Defense Language Proficiency Test. A maximum of six
           semester hours of CCAF degree-applicable technical course credit otherwise not
           applicable to this program of enrollment. See the CCAF General Catalog for details
           regarding the Associates of Applied Science for this specialty.

9. Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is encouraged for all. Individuals
desiring to become an AETC Instructor should actively pursue an Associates Degree. A qualified
faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges and
Schools.




                                                 19
10. Career Field Path. The following chart depicts this specialty’s career path.




                            Electrical Systems Enlisted
                                  Career Pyramid

                                                         22 yrs
                               Chief Enlisted            Average
                                                                              HQ, FOA, & Other
                               Manager
                                                                                      Master Badge
                                                                20 yrs
                                                9               Average
                     Superintendent          LEVEL

                                                                    17 yrs
                                           7-LEVEL                  Average


                                                  Worker                  12 yrs
                                                 Supervisor               Average
     Senior Badge        7-LEVEL

                                         CRAFTSMAN
                                          TECH SCHOOL

                                           5-LEVEL
                                                                                    5 yrs
                                                 Section Worker                     Average
                                                Worker/Supervisor
                                          JOURNEYMAN                                   36 months
                               CDC/OJT/AFQTP          (15 months OJT)

                                           3-LEVEL

    Basic Badge                                                                               16 months
                                                              Section Worker

                                       APPRENTICE
    Initial Skills
      Training                                                     Trainee/Worker                  6 months


                      TECH SCHOOL                                             Student

                     BASIC MILITARY TRAINING                                        Student




                                                20
 10.1. Enlisted Career Path.

Table: Enlisted Career Path

Education and Training                     Rank        Average      Earliest      High Year Of Tenure
Requirements                                           Sew-On       Sew-On              (HYT)
Basic Military Training school
Apprentice Technical School                Amn         6 months
(3-Skill Level)                            A1C         16 months
- Must complete CE Common Core
3-level DL product
Upgrade To Journeyman                       SrA         3 years    28 months            12 Years
(5-Skill Level)
- Complete all core and duty-related
tasks identified in CFETP.
- Minimum 15 months on-the-job
training
(9 months for retrainees)
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when
available.

Airman Leadership School (ALS)                                      Trainer
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time       - Trainer must be qualified and certified on tasks to be
in service or be a SSgt Selectee.         trained.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite   - Must attend formal AF Training Course.
for SSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).

Upgrade To Craftsman                       SSgt         5 years      3 years            20 Years
(7-Skill Level)
- Complete all core and duty-related
tasks identified in CFETP
- Minimum rank of SSgt
- 12 months OJT
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when
available.
- Attend 7-level Craftsman Course
(may attend prior to completion of 12
months UGT when implemented)
- Must complete CE Common Core
7-level DL product
Retrainee                                                            Certifier
- Minimum 9 months for 5-level            - SSgt with 5-skill level or civilian equivalent.
- Minimum 6 months for 7-level UGT        - Attend formal AF Certifier Course.
                                           - Person other than the trainer (for core and critical tasks
                                          only).



                                                  21
Noncommissioned Officer Academy            TSgt        12 years   5 years            24 Years
(NCOA)
- Must be a TSgt or TSgt Selectee
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite   MSgt         17 years   8 years            26 Years
for MSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).
Upgrade To Superintendent                 SMSgt        20 years   11 years           28 Years
(9-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SMSgt

Civil Engineer Manager (CEM)              CMSgt        22 years   14 years           30 years
-USAF Senior NCO Academy
(SNCOA) resident graduation is a
prerequisite for CMSgt sew-on (Active
Duty Only)
- Complete Chief Leadership Course

       10.2. CE Occupational Badge. The Civil Engineer badge reflects a great history and
       tradition. By wearing it, you will be recognized by your fellow airmen as having achieved
       an expected level of competence. The multitude of engineers before you established this
       expectation through excellent service in both peace and war. Eligibility criteria for award
       and wear of AF occupational badges can be found in AFI 36-2923 (Aeronautical, Duty, and
       Occupational Badges), on the AFEPL, Air Force Electronic Publications Library (AFEPL).

            10.2.1. CE Badge Heraldry. The gear wheel and compass have historically been used
            to represent the engineering profession, in both the military and civilian sector. The
            gear represents the essence of engineering: applying scientific principles and
            technology to practical ends. To Air Force engineers, the gear symbolizes an element
            (representing the built environment) that meshes with other environments (weapon
            systems and trained personnel) to enable the Air Force to perform its mission. The
            compass is a precision tool historically used by engineers in designing and constructing
            facilities and equipment. The gear and compass together symbolize all the diverse
            specialties within Air Force civil engineer. Finally, the wings help to portray the
            fundamental linkage between the engineering and aviation components; and that the
            built environment is the foundation supporting Air Force mission and people.

                    10.2.1.1. Basic Badge. The basic badge is awarded upon successful
                    completion of the apprentice course.

                    10.2.1.2. Senior Badge. The senior badge adds a star to the top of the
                    badge. This is awarded after the member successfully completes the 7-
                    level awarding course.

                    10.2.1.3. Master Badge. The master badge adds a wreath around the
                    star. It’s awarded to master sergeant or above with 5 years in the
                    specialty from award of the 7-skill level.




                                                  22
           SECTION C – SKILL-LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

11. Purpose. The various skill levels in the career field are defined in terms of tasks and
knowledge requirements for the Electrical Systems career ladder. They are stated in broad,
general terms and establish the standards of performance. An all-encompassing core task list has
been developed for this specialty because of the diversity of the missions supported and the
equipment installed to meet mission requirements. Core tasks (and diamond tasks as applicable),
knowledge items, and skill requirements for this specialty are identified in the STS. Completion
of the mandatory 3-level awarding course, the mandatory completion of CDCs, the mandatory
completion of applicable AFQTPs and CerTests, and the mandatory 7-level Craftsman course
(when implemented), comprise Air Force requirements.

12. Specialty Qualification Requirements.

     12.1. Apprentice (3-Level) Training Requirements.

           12.1.1. Specialty Qualifications.

                12.1.1.1. Knowledge. Completion of the Apprentice course satisfies this
                mandatory requirement.

                12.1.1.2. Education. Completion of high school or general education
                development (GED) with courses in mathematics, general science,
                physics, shop mechanics, electricity, and computer fundamentals is
                desirable.

                12.1.1.3. Training.

                      12.1.1.3.1. Completion of the Electrical Systems Apprentice
                      Course, J8ABR3E031 00AB, is mandatory for award of this skill
                      level

                      12.1.1.3.2. Completion of CE Common Core 3-level DL product is
                      mandatory for award of this skill level.

                12.1.1.4. Experience. N/A

                12.1.1.5. Other.

                      12.1.1.5.1. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical
                      Examination and Standards

                      12.1.1.5.2. Qualification to operate government vehicles according
                      to AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations.

                      12.1.1.5.3. Freedom from fear of heights.

           12.1.2. Training Sources/Resources.
                                                23
         12.1.2.1. Formal training is accomplished through course, J8ABR3E031
         00AB, at Sheppard AFB, TX

         12.1.2.2. The COL (Part II, Section B of this CFETP) identifies all the
         knowledge and tasks, with their respective standards.

         12.1.2.3. When applicable, AFQTPs and associated CerTests are
         mandatory for use during UGT/QT on all core tasks, critical tasks, and
         diamond (♦) tasks.

         12.1.2.4. CE Common Core 3-level DL product.

    12.1.3. Implementation.

         12.1.3.1. The 3-skill level is awarded upon completion of the CE
         Common Core 3-level DL product and graduating the Apprentice course.

12.2. Journeyman (5-Level) Training Requirements.

    12.2.1. Specialty Qualification. Entry into 5-level upgrade training is initiated after
    the individual has completed the 3-level school. All 3-level qualifications apply to 5-
    level requirements.

         12.2.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge of the following is mandatory:

               12.2.1.1.1. Principles of electronics, including computation and
               measurement of common properties (resistance, inductance, capacitance,
               voltage, and current).

               12.2.1.1.2. Transformer and regulator operations and connections.

               12.2.1.1.3. Grounding and lightning protection systems.

               12.2.1.1.4. Working on high and low voltage energized and de-energized
               lines

               12.2.1.1.5. Applications of safety requirements related to installation and
               maintenance of electrical distribution systems.

               12.2.1.1.6. Principles of fire alarms, cathodic protection
               systems, and airfield lighting systems.

               12.2.1.1.7. Reading electrical schematics and one-line diagrams.

               12.2.1.1.8. Rescue and resuscitation of electrical shock victims.

               12.2.1.1.9. Environmental concerns and safety precautions required when
               using and storing hazardous materials.

         12.2.1.2. Education. N/A
                                         24
     12.2.1.3. Training

          12.2.1.3.1. Completion of CDCs is mandatory.

          12.2.1.3.2. Certification of all 5-level core tasks identified with a single
          asterisk (*) in the core task column of the STS is mandatory.

          12.2.1.3.3. Completion of AFQTPs for assigned core and diamond (♦) tasks
          is mandatory.

          12.2.1.3.4. Completion of CerTests or associated web based tests for all
          diamond (♦) tasks with a minimum of 80% is mandatory.

          12.2.1.3.5. Certification of duty position requirements identified by the
          supervisor is mandatory.

     12.2.1.4.   Experience.

          12.2.1.4.1. Qualification in and possession of 3-skill level.

          12.2.1.4.2. Experience in climbing poles, installing, maintaining, and
          repairing low and high voltage interior and exterior electrical systems and
          components.

          12.2.1.4.3. Minimum 15 months on-the-job training (9 months for re-
          trainees) before award of 5-skill level.

     12.2.1.5. Other. N/A

12.2.2. Training Sources/Resources.

     12.2.2.1. CDC 3E051 C and D, Electrical Systems Journeyman.

     12.2.2.2. The STS (Part II, Section A of the CFETP) identifies all core tasks
     required for qualification in the individual’s duty position.

     12.2.2.3. Qualified trainers provide upgrade and qualification training for duty
     positions, managed programs, and/or equipment to be used.

12.2.3. Implementation.

     12.2.3.1. Entry into formal Journeyman upgrade training is accomplished after
     individuals are assigned to their first duty station.

     12.2.3.2. Qualification training is initiated any time individuals are assigned
     duties they are not certified to perform.

                                     25
         12.2.3.3. AFQTPs are used concurrently to obtain necessary duty position
         qualifications.

12.3. Craftsman (7-Level) Training Requirements.

    12.3.1. Specialty Qualification. All 5-level qualifications apply to 7-level
    requirements.

         12.3.1.1. Knowledge. All 5-level knowledge requirements apply to 7-level
         requirements.

         12.3.1.2. Education.

               12.3.1.2.1. To assume the grade of SSgt, individuals must successfully
               complete Airman Leadership School (active duty only).

               12.3.1.2.2. To assume the grade of MSgt, individuals must successfully
               complete the NCO Academy (active duty only).

               12.3.1.2.3. For ANG/AFRC, completion of Air Force Institute for
               Advanced Distributive Learning (AFIADL) courses 00001 (ALS) and
               00006 D&E (NCO Academy) satisfy the requirements.

         12.3.1.3. Training.

               12.3.1.3.1. Completion of CE Common Core 7-level DL product is
               mandatory.

               12.3.1.3.2. Completion of in-residence 7-level Craftsman Course
               J3ACR3E071 00AA is mandatory (when implemented).

               12.3.1.3.3. Certification of all 5- and 7-skill level core tasks identified with
               a single asterisk (*) and double asterisk (**) in the core column of the STS
               is mandatory.

               12.3.1.3.4. Completion of all AFQTPs for assigned core and diamond (♦)
               tasks is mandatory.

               12.3.1.3.5. Completion of CerTests or associated web based tests for all
               diamond (♦) tasks with a minimum of 80% is mandatory.

               12.3.1.3.6. Certification of duty position requirements identified by the
               supervisor is mandatory.

               12.3.1.3.7. Completion of course J3AZR3E051 02AA, in residence,
               Cathodic Protection Systems is highly desirable.


                                          26
          12.3.1.3.8. Completion of course J3AZR3E051 05AA, in residence,
          Airfield Lighting Systems is highly desirable.

          12.3.1.3.9. Completion of course J3AZR3E051 07AA, in residence, Electrical
          Distribution Systems Maintenance is highly desirable.

          12.3.1.3.10. Course J3AZR3E051 08AA, in residence, Cable Testing &
          Splicing is highly desirable.

          12.3.1.3.11. Completion of course J3AZR3E071 04AA, in residence, CE
          Advanced Electrical Troubleshooting is highly desirable.

          12.3.1.3.12. Completion of course J3AZR3E051 06AA, in residence, Bare
          Base Elect Systems is highly desirable.

     12.3.1.4. Experience.

          12.3.1.4.1. Qualification in and possession of a 5-level.

          12.3.1.4.2. Experience in climbing poles, installing, maintaining, and
          repairing low and high voltage interior and exterior electrical systems and
          components.
          12.3.1.4.3. Minimum 12 months on-the-job training (6 months for re-
          trainees) before award of 7- skill level.

     12.3.1.5. Other. N/A

12.3.2. Training Sources/Resources.

     12.3.2.1. CE Common Core 7-level DL product.

     12.3.2.2. Course J3ACR3E071 00AA, 7-level Craftsman Course.

     12.3.2.3. NCO Academy Course 00006 D&E (paper-based
     correspondence).

     12.3.2.4. Course J3AZR3E051 02AA, in residence, Cathodic Protection Systems.

     12.3.2.5. Course J3AZR3E051 05AA, in residence, Airfield Lighting Systems.

     12.3.2.6. Course J3AZR3E051 07AA, in residence, Electrical Distribution Systems
     Maintenance.

     12.3.2.7. Course J3AZR3E051 08AA, in residence, Cable Testing & Splicing.

     12.3.2.8. Course J3AZR3E071 04AA, in residence, CE Advanced Electrical
     Troubleshooting.

                                    27
          12.3.2.9. Course J3AZR3E051 06AA, in residence, Bare Base Elect Systems.

          12.3.2.10. The STS (Part II, Section A of this CFETP) identifies all core
          tasks required for qualification in the individual’s duty position.

          12.3.2.11. Qualified trainers provide upgrade and qualification training for duty
          positions, managed programs, and/or equipment to be used.

     12.3.3. Implementation.

          12.3.3.1. Entry into 7-level training is initiated when an individual is selected for
          SSgt and has fulfilled all 5-level requirements.

          12.3.3.2. Qualification training is initiated any time an individual is assigned
          duties that they are not qualified to perform.

          12.3.3.3. AFQTPs are used concurrently to obtain necessary duty position
          qualifications.

12.4. Superintendent (9-Level) Training Requirements.

     12.4.1. Specialty Qualification.

          12.4.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge of the following is mandatory:

               12.4.1.1.1. Air Force training programs.

               12.4.1.1.2. CE policies, practices, and procedures of base maintenance and
               operations, crafts, facilities, equipment, and systems.

               12.4.1.1.3. Interpretation and application of maintenance and work force
               management.

               12.4.1.1.4. Principles of electricity and electronics, electrical circuitry and
               distribution; interior and exterior electrical distribution systems.

               12.4.1.1.5. Internal combustion engines and other prime movers for
               electrical generating systems.

               12.4.1.1.6. Principles of fire alarm systems, cathodic
               protection systems, aircraft arresting systems, and airfield lighting systems.

               12.4.1.1.7. Safety and environmental concerns

          12.4.1.2. Education.




                                           28
              12.4.1.2.1. ANG/AFRC must complete AFIADL course 00012 (exportable
              computer-based CD ROM)or 00014 (web based) to satisfy the Senior NCO
              Academy requirement.

              12.4.1.3. Training. Completion of duty position training requirements.

         12.4.1.4. Experience.

              12.4.1.4.1. Qualification in and possession of 7-skill level is mandatory.

             12.4.1.4.2. Managing functions such as inspecting, operating, maintaining,
              and repairing electrical distribution systems, electrical generating systems,
              fire alarm systems, airfield lighting systems, and aircraft
              arresting systems.

         12.4.1.5. Other. N/A

    12.4.2. Training Sources/Resources.

         12.4.2.1. In-residence SNCO Academy located at Maxwell AFB - Gunter Annex
         AL.

         12.4.2.2. SNCO Academy Course 00012 (exportable computer-based CD
         ROM) or 00014 (web based) .

    12.4.3. Implementation.

         12.4.3.1. Entry into 9-level training is initiated when an individual is
         selected for SMSgt and is a fully qualified 7-level.

         12.4.3.2. QT is initiated any time an individual is assigned duties they are
         not qualified to perform.

12.5. Civil Engineer Manager.

    12.5.1. Specialty Qualification.

         12.5.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge of the following is mandatory:

              12.5.1.1.1. Managing and directing personnel resource activities.

              12.5.1.1.2. Interpreting and enforcing policy and applicable
              directives.

              12.5.1.1.3. Establishing control procedures to meet work goals and
              standards.


                                          29
          12.5.1.1.4. Recommending or initiating actions to improve
          operational efficiency.

          12.5.1.1.5. Planning and programming work commitments and
          schedules.

          12.5.1.1.6. Developing plans regarding facilities, supplies, and
          equipment procurement and maintenance.

     12.5.1.2. Education.

          12.5.1.2.1. Must be a resident graduate of SNCOA (active duty
          only).

          12.5.1.2.2. Must complete Chief Leadership Course.

     12.5.1.3. Training. N/A

     12.5.1.4. Experience.

          12.5.1.4.1. Possess qualifications in feeder specialty (3E090) prior
          to award of Civil Engineer Manager code 3E000.

          12.5.1.4.2. Managerial ability to plan, direct, coordinate, implement,
          and control a wide range of work activity.

     12.5.1.5. Other. N/A

12.5.2. Training Sources and Resources. Chief Leadership Course.

12.5.3. Implementation. Entry into Civil Engineer Manager code 3E000 is initiated
when an individual is selected for CMSgt and possesses qualifications in a feeder
specialty (3E090, 3E191, 3E291, 3E391, 3E490, 3E591, and 3E691).




                                    30
                        SECTION D - RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS

13. Purpose. The following paragraphs describe the resource constraints that result from
publication of this CFETP. All constraints are referenced to specific STS line items shown as
back slashed on the STS.

     13.1. Equipment Constraints:

           13.1.1. Constraints. None.

           13.1.2. Time/Manpower/Student Man-years Constraints: None.

     13.2. Apprentice (3-Level) Training. No Constraints.

     13.3. Journeyman (5-Level) Training. No Constraints.

     13.4. Craftsman (7-Level) Training. No Constraints.

     13.5. Superintendent (9-Level) Training. No Constraints.




                                                31
                    SECTION E - TRANSITION TRAINING GUIDE
14. “There are currently no transition training requirements. This area is reserved.”




                                             32
                                               PART II

                     SECTION A - SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

1. Implementation. This STS will be used to identify technical training provided by AETC for
the 3-level Electrical Systems Apprentice course with class beginning 29 Oct 2007 and graduating 28
 March 08 and training to be provided in the pending 7-level Craftsman Course when
implemented.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:

     2.1. Lists in Column 1 (Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common
     tasks, knowledge, and Technical References (TRs) necessary for airmen to perform duties in
     the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level.

     2.2. Column 2 (Core Tasks) identifies core and diamond tasks (specialty-wide training
     requirements) by an asterisk (*). As a minimum, trainees must complete all core and
     critical tasks for skill-level upgrade as indicated for the 5 and 7 skill level.

           2.2.1. All tasks in the 3 level column are considered wartime tasks. In response to a
           wartime scenario, these tasks will be taught in the 3-level course in a streamlined
           training environment.

           2.2.2. Tasks identified as a diamond task in column 2 are extremely important to the
           career field. Equipment shortfalls at most locations however, have created problems
           with the actual hands-on certification of these tasks. In instances where required
           equipment is not available for instruction, completion of the task’s AFQTP and passing
           the corresponding CerTest is all that is required for upgrade training. Document the
           AFQTP documentation record once the AFQTP/CerTest is completed. Document the
           STS only if hands-on certification was accomplished. Hands-on certification shall be
           accomplished at the first opportunity when equipment is available.

      2.3. Provides certification for OJT. Columns 3A, B, C, D, and E are used to record
      completion of tasks and knowledge training requirements. If available, use automated
      training management systems to document technician qualifications. Task certification of
      core and critical tasks requires a training completion date and initials of the trainee, trainer,
      and certifier. All non-core tasks require training completion date and initials of the trainee
      and trainer only.

    2.4. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Columns 4A, B, and C
    show the proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on
    the task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the initial skills training course,
    correspondence course, and computer based training. See CADRE/AFSC/CDC listing
    maintained by the unit training manager for current CDC listings.

    2.5. Identifies qualitative requirements. Attachment 1 contains the Proficiency Code Key
    used to indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career
    development courses
                                                   33
2.6. Becomes a Job Qualification Standard (JQS) for on-the-job training when placed in AF
Form 623, Individual Training Record, and used according to AFI 36-2201. When used as a
JQS, the following requirements apply:

     2.6.1. Documentation. Document and certify completion of training.

          2.6.1.1. Identify current duty position requirements by circling the subparagraph
          number or letter next to the task statement. Additionally, all core and diamond
          tasks should be circled. Document task completion by annotating columns 3A,
          3B, 3C, and 3D. NOTE: All entries shall be made in pencil.

          2.6.1.2. Enter the start date of the AFQTP on the documentation record. Once
          completed enter the completion date. When hands-on training is started and
          completed annotate the STS accordingly.

          2.6.1.3. Transcribing from old document to CFETP. Use the new STS to
          identify and certify all current and past task qualifications.

                2.6.1.3.1. For tasks previously certified and still required in the current duty
                position:

                     2.6.1.3.1.1. For core and critical tasks, the trainer and certifier
                     evaluate the airman's current qualifications and validate airman's
                     ability to complete the task. The certifier and trainee then enter their
                     initials and new certified date.

                     2.6.1.3.1.2. For non-core duty position tasks, the trainer evaluates the
                     airman's current qualifications and validates the airman's ability to
                     complete the task. The trainer and trainee then enter their initials in
                     columns 3D and 3C respectively and the current date is entered in
                     column 3B.

                2.6.1.3.2. To transcribe previous certification for tasks not required in the
                current duty position, carry forward only the previous completion dates (not
                the initials of another person). If and when these tasks become a duty
                position requirement, re-certify with current date and certifier, trainer, and
                trainee's initials.

          2.6.1.4. Documenting Career Knowledge. When a CDC is not available, the
          supervisor identifies STS training references that the trainee requires for career
          knowledge and ensures, as a minimum, that trainees cover all mandatory items
          specified in AFMAN 36-2108, Enlisted Classification. For two-time CDC exam
          failures, supervisors identify all STS items corresponding to the areas covered by
          the CDC. The trainee completes a study of STS references, undergoes evaluation
          by the task certifier, and receives certification on the STS. NOTE: Career
          knowledge must be documented prior to submitting a CDC waiver.


                                           34
                2.6.1.5. De-Certification and Re-Certification. When an airman is found to be
                unqualified on a task, the supervisor shall erase previous certification and enter
                airman into qualification training. Appropriate remarks are entered on the AF
                Form 623a, On-The-Job Training Record Continuation Sheet, as to the reason for
                de-certification. The individual is re-certified using the normal certification
                process.

         2.6.2. Training Standard. Tasks are trained and certified to the “go” level. “Go”
         means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets the local
         requirements for accuracy, timeliness, and correct use of procedures. This equates to a
         “3c” in the proficiency code key. AFQTPs, when available, shall be used to identify Air
         Force standardized procedures. Local requirements for accuracy, timeliness, and use of
         procedures shall be applied accordingly.

     2.7. The STS is used as a guide for development of promotion tests in the Weighted
     Airman Promotion System (WAPS). Senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in
     their career fields develop Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) at the USAF Occupational
     Measurement Squadron. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by
     test development team members as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades.
     Questions are based upon study references listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual
     responsibilities are in Chapter 14 of AFI 36-2606, United States Air Force Reenlistment,
     Retention, and NCO Status Programs. WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard or
     Air Reserve Forces.

3. Recommendations. Comments and recommendations are invited concerning quality of
training AETC graduates receive. Reference this STS regarding changes and address your
correspondence to 782 TRG/TGAV, 620 9th Avenue, Suite 3, Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2368. A
782d customer service information line (CSIL) has been installed for the supervisor’s convenience
to identify graduates who may have received over or under training on tasks/knowledge items
listed in this STS. For a quick response to problems, call the CSIL at DSN 736-2574 any time
(day or night).


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE


OFFICIAL                                        KEVIN J. SULLIVAN, Lt Gen, USAF
                                                DCS/Logistics, Installations and Mission Support




                                                35
This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                       Initials (Written)              SSAN

                                               Printed Name Of Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                    N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I


N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I



                                                 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                               Proficiency Code Key
                                    Scale                                        Definition: The individual
                                    Value
                                       1       Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (Extremely
                                                                                            Limited)
          Task                         2             Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
      Performance                      3             Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
         Levels                        4          Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task.
                                                                                      (Highly Proficient)
                                       a                    Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)
         *Task                         b                     Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)
       Knowledge                       c                 Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                                                                                      (Operating Principles)
          Levels                       d                 Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
                                       A                           Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
       **Subject                       B        Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (Principles)
       Knowledge                       C              Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
        Levels                         D               Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)
                                                                Explanations
   * A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
                                                            (Example: b and 1b)

  ** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
                                                       subject common to several tasks.

              - This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

          X This mark is used alone in the course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.

                         NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war time.




                                                                          36                                                            Attachment 1
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course    DL     Course CDC       Course     DL

1 CE ORGANIZATION AND CAREER
  FIELD STRUCTURE
  TR: AFDD 2-4; AFIs 10-209, 10-210,
  10-211, 32-1022, 32-1001, 36-2101, 38-
  101, AFMAN 36-2108; War
  Mobilization Plan (WMP)-1, Annex S
1.1 Civil Engineer (CE) structure                                                                                               A                B
1.2 Progression in career ladder                                                                                                A                B
1.3 Duties and responsibilities
1.3.1 Peacetime                                                                                                                 A                B
1.3.2 Contingency                                                                                                               A                B
1.4 Functions of:
1.4.1 BCE                                                                                                                       A                B
1.4.2 Prime BEEF                                                                                                                A                B
1.4.3 RED HORSE                                                                                                                 A                B
1.4.4 HQ ANG/AFRC                                                                                                               A                B
1.4.5 HQ AFCESA                                                                                                                                  A                  B
1.4.6 HQ AFCEE                                                                                                                                                      A
1.4.7 AFIT                                                                                                                                                          A
1.4.8 AFRL                                                                                                                                                          A
1.5 Resources
1.5.1 Assess manpower requirements                                                                                                                                  b
1.5.2 Identify budget requirements                                                                                                                                  b
1.5.3 Determine equipment requirements                                                                                                                              b
1.5.4 Use Allowance Standards (AS)                                                                                                                                  b
1.5.5 Research, Development, and
      Acquisition (RD&A) TR: AFI 63-
      118
1.5.5.1 Process                                                                                                                                                     B
1.5.5.2 Unit responsibilities                                                                                                                                       B
1.5.5.3 Major command responsibilities                                                                                                                              B
1.5.6 Assess vehicle requirements                                                                                                                                   b
1.5.7 Requesting contract services                                                                                                                                  b
1.5.8 Requesting Simplified Acquisition                                                                                                                             B
      of Base Engineering Requirements
      (SABER)
1.5.9 Geo Base Technologies                                                                                                                      B                  B
1.5.10 Quality Assurance Personnel
      (QAP) duties.
  TR: Federal Acquisition Regulation Part
      37.6.; AFI 63-124; AFPAM 32-1004
      V2
1.5.10.1 Evaluate contractor's
        performance
1.5.10.2 Document contractor's
        performance
1.5.10.3 Maintain surveillance
        documentation
2 SUPERVISION
  TR: TR: AFIs 36-2201, 36-2406, 36-
  3401; AFMAN 36-2108
2.1 Orient new personnel                                                                                                                                            b
2.2 Assign personnel to work crew                                                                                                                                   b
2.3 Coordinate work assignments                                                                                                                                     b

                                                                37                                                                          Attachment 2
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course    DL     Course CDC       Course     DL

2.4 Schedule work assignments and                                                                                                                                   b
    priorities
2.5 Establish:
2.5.1 Work methods                                                                                                                                                  b
2.5.2 Controls                                                                                                                                                      b
2.5.3 Performance standards                                                                                                                                         b
2.6 Evaluate work performance of                                                                                                                                    b
    subordinate personnel
2.7 Resolve technical problems for                                                                                                                                  b
    subordinate personnel
2.8 Direct projects                                                                                                                                                 b
3 TRAINING
  TR: AFIs 36-2101, 36-2201; AFPD 36-
  22; AFMAN 36-2108
3.1 Evaluate personnel to determine need                                                                                                         a                  b
    for training
3.2 Enlisted specialty training
     supervision
3.2.1 Prepare job qualification standards                                                                                                        a                  b
3.2.2 Conduct training                                                                                                                           a                  b
3.2.3 Counsel trainees on their progress                                                                                                         a                  b
3.2.4 Monitor training effectiveness
3.2.4.1 Career knowledge                                                                                                                         a                  b
3.2.4.2 Job proficiency upgrade                                                                                                                  a                  b
3.2.4.3 Qualification                                                                                                                            a                  b
3.3 Maintain training records                                                                                                                    a                  b
3.4 Evaluate training programs                                                                                                                   a                  b
    effectiveness
3.5 Recommend people for training                                                                                                                a                  b
3.6 AETC training management system                                                                                                              A                  B
    (Training allocation)
3.7 Managing Certification and Testing                                                                                                           A                  B
    (CerTest)
3.8 National/DoD Certification                                                                                                                   A                  B
    requirements
3.9 AFQTP Requirements                                                                                                                           A                  B
4 ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS
  AND COMPLIANCE
  TR: AFI 32-7045; AFPD 32-70; EO
  12856
4.1 Environmental Compliance                                                                                                                     A                  B
4.2 Environmental Protection Agency                                                                                                              A                  B
    (EPA)
5 CE MANAGEMENT
  TR: AFI 32-1001, 32-1022; AFPAM
  32-1098; AFPAM 32-1125 V-1;
  AFMAN 23-110
5.1 Customer relationsips                                                                                                       A                B
5.2 Work identification and authorization                                                                                                        A                  B
5.3 Plan work requirements                                                                                                                       A                  b
5.4 Plan logistics support (CEMAS,                                                                                                               A                  b
    BOM)
5.5 GPC Program                                                                                                                                  A                  B
5.6 Maintain recurring work program                                                                                                              A                  b

                                                                38                                                                          Attachment 2
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course    DL     Course CDC       Course     DL

5.7 Scheduling/time accounting                                                                                                                   A                  b
5.8 Warranty and Guarantee Program                                                                                                               A                  B
5.9 Property Accountability                                                                                                                      A                  B
5.10 Air Force Comprehensive Plan                                                                                                                A                  B
5.11 Legal limits                                                                                                                                A                  B
5.12 Mark "As Built" Drawings                                                                                                                    A                  b
5.13 Reimbursements procedures                                                                                                                   A                  B
5.14 CE Specific Automated Systems
    (Computer) Capability
5.14.1 Perform inputs                                                                                                                            a                  b
5.14.2 Maintain files                                                                                                                            a                  b
5.14.3 Develop automated reports                                                                                                                 a                  b
5.14.4 Extract automated reports                                                                                                                 a                  b
5.14.5 Perform automated data analysis                                                                                                                              b
5.15 Host Tenant and Interservice                                                                                                                                   A
    Agreements
5.16 Civil Engineer Civilian Management                                                                                                                             B
6 AF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY
   AND HEALTH (AFOSH)
   PROGRAM
  TR: AFIs 91-301, 91-302
6.1 Supervisory responsibilities                                                                                                                 B
6.2 Hazardous materials waste handling                                                                                 A                         B
6.3 Lead-based paint (LBP) hazard                                                                                      A                         B
  TR: 29-CFT 1926.62; Working With
    Lead-based Paint: Facts and
    Information Applicable to Air Force
    Facilities
6.4 Asbestos awareness                                                                                                 A                         B
7 PUBLICATIONS
  TR: AFI 33-360 V-1
7.1 Military                                                                                                           A                         B
7.2 Commercial                                                                                                         A                         B
7.3 Engineering Technical Letters (ETL)                                                                                                          A                  B
8 AFSC SPECIFIC SAFETY
  STANDARDS
  TR: AFI 32-1064; AFOSH STD 91-10,
  91-25; American Red Cross Adult CPR
  Handbook, American Heart Association;
  AFOSH 91-501; UFC 3-560-02; NFPA
  70E
8.1 Electrical facilities safe clearance
    forms
8.1.1 Use AF Form 979                                    *                                                             2b                        c       3c
8.1.2 Use AF Form 980                                    *                                                             2b                        c       3c
8.1.3 Use AF Form 269
8.1.3.1 When switching                                           *                                                     2b                        c       3c
8.1.3.2 When blocking and tagging                                *                                                     2b                        c       3c
8.1.4 Plan safe clearance                                        *                                                                               c       3c
8.2 Confined space
8.2.1 Identify                                                                                                         A                         B        C
8.2.2 Safe entry procedures
8.2.2.1 Test                                                                                                           2b                        c       3c
8.2.2.2 Ventilate                                                                                                      2b                        c        c

                                                                39                                                                          Attachment 2
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course    DL     Course CDC       Course     DL

8.3 Perform rescue
8.3.1 Pole top                                                                                                         2b                        c
8.3.2 Manhole                                                                                                          2b                        c
8.3.3 Aerial lift                                                                                                      2b                        c
8.3.4 Electric Shock                                                                                                    b                        b
8.4 Conduct supervisory safety
    assessment of:
8.4.1 Maintenance of de-energized
       distribution system
8.4.1.1 Over 600 volts                                                                                                                           b
8.4.1.2 Under 600 volts                                                                                                                          b
8.4.2 Maintenance of energized
       distribution system
8.4.2.1 Over 600 volts                                                                                                                           b       2b
8.4.2.2 Under 600 volts                                                                                                                          b       2b
8.4.3 Maintenance of equipment status                                                                                                            b        c
       boards or logs
8.5 Conduct safety inspections
8.5.1 Hot line tools                                     *                                                              b                        c       2b
8.5.2 Rubber personal protective                         *                                                              b                        c       3c
       equipment
8.5.3 Protective equipment
8.5.3.1 Rubber                                                                                                         b                         c       2b
8.5.3.2 Polyethylene                                                                                                   b                         c       2b
8.6 Perform cardiopulmonary                                                                                            3c
    resuscitation (CPR)
8.7 Conduct safety meeting/tail gate                     *                                                              b                        c       3c
    briefing
8.8 Determine PPE requirements                           *                                                             2b                        c       3c
9 AFS SPECIFIC PUBLICATIONS
  TR: TO: 00-5-1
9.1 Use indexes to locate numbers and                                                                                                            b
    titles of manuals, instructions,
    technical orders, and forms to
9.2 Locate desired information
9.2.1 Standard publications                                                                                                                      b
9.2.2 Technical orders                                                                                                  a                        b
9.2.3 National Electrical Code                                                                                         2b                        b
       (NFPA 70)
9.2.4 National Electrical Safety Code                                                                                   b                        b
9.2.5 National Fire Alarm Code (NFPA                                                                                                             a
       72)
9.2.6 UFC 3-560-02                                                                                                      a                        b       3c
9.3 Use technical publications
9.3.1 Maintain                                                                                                                                   b
9.3.2 Operate                                                                                                                                    b
9.3.3 Troubleshoot                                                                                                                               b




                                                                40                                                                          Attachment 2
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course    DL     Course CDC       Course     DL

10 PLANNING AND SCHEDULING
 WORK
 TR: AFJMAN 32-1082, AFJMAN 32-
 1083; National Electrical Code,
 National Electrical Safety Code, AFI
 32-1031
10.1 Planning job requirements
10.1.1 Use wiring diagrams, schematics,                                                                                2b                        c       3c
     specification sheets, drawings,
     staking sheets, and one line diagrams
10.1.2 Determine the type and size of
     electrical system and material
     requirements
10.1.2.1 Under 600 volts                                                                                                b                        c       2c
10.1.2.2 Over 600 volts                                                                                                 b                        c       2c
10.2 Plan sequence and production                                                                                                                b
   priorities for work operation
10.3 Inspection and maintenance
10.3.1 Determine maintenance                                                                                                                     c
     requirements
 TR: AFJMAN 32-1082
10.3.2 Use maintenance forms and                                                                                                                 a
     automated products
 TR: AFI 32-1031
10.4 Plan work assignments and priorities                                                                                                        a
 TR: AFI 32-1031
10.5 Coordinate protective devices                                                                                                                       2b
11 ELECTRICAL FUNDAMENTALS
 TR: TO 31-1-141 Series; National
 Electrical Code
11.1 Identify electrical terms and                                                                                     A                         B
   symbols
11.2 Electrical principles
11.2.1 DC circuits                                                                                                     A                         C
11.2.2 AC circuits                                                                                                     B                         C
11.3 Construct basic electric circuits                                                                                 2b                        b
11.4 Compute for voltage, current,                       *                                                             2b                        b
   resistance, and power
11.5 Measure electrical properties in                                                                                  2b                        b
   circuits and components
11.6 Transformer theory                                                                                                 B                        C
11.7 Compute load balance                                                                                                                        b
11.8 Fundamentals of electrical systems                                                                                 B
   from primary generation to load
12 ELECTRONIC FUNDAMENTALS
 TR: T.O. 31-1-141 series
12.1 Basic electronic principles                                                                                       A                         B
12.2 Identify electronic terms and                                                                                     A                         B
   symbols
12.3 Principles of harmonics                                                                                                                     B




                                                                41                                                                          Attachment 2
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course    DL     Course CDC       Course     DL

13 SUBSTATION EQUIPMENT
 TR: AFI 32-1064; AFOSH STD 91-10,
 Lineman's and Cableman's Handbook;
 ANSI C-2; National Electrical Safety
 Code
13.1 Fundamentals
13.1.1 Recloser                                                                                                        A                         B
13.1.2 Circuit breakers                                                                                                A                         B
13.1.3 Potential transformers                                                                                          A                         B
13.1.4 Current transformers                                                                                            A                         B
13.1.5 Protective relays                                                                                               A                         B
13.1.6 Voltage regulators                                                                                              A                         B
13.1.7 Insulating mediums
13.1.7.1 Air                                                                                                           A                         B
13.1.7.2 Oil                                                                                                           A                         B
13.1.7.3 Vacuum                                                                                                        A                         B
13.1.7.4 Gas                                                                                                           A                         B
13.1.8 Capacitor banks                                                                                                 A                         B
13.1.9 Battery banks                                                                                                   A                         B
13.2 Install
13.2.1 Potential transformers                                                                                                                    b
13.2.2 Current transformers                                                                                                                      b
13.3 Perform recurring maintenance
13.3.1 Recloser                                                                                                                                  b
13.3.2 Circuit breakers                                                                                                                          b
13.3.3 Power transformers                                                                                                                        b
13.3.4 Protective relays                                                                                                                         b
13.3.5 Voltage regulators                                                                                                                        b
13.4 Troubleshoot substation equipment                                                                                                           b
14 OVERHEAD DISTRIBUTION
    SYSTEMS
 TR: AFMs 88-9; AFJMAN 32-1082;
 AFIs 32-1031, 32-1064, 32-1063;
 AFOSH STD 91-10, 91-501;
  Lineman's and Cableman's
  Handbook; ANSI C-2; National
 Electrical Code; Hot Stick Manual
  (AB Chance)
14.1 Climb poles
14.1.1 Using gaffs                                       *                                                             2b                        b
14.1.2 Working on pole components                        *                                                             2b                        b
14.1.3 Traversing obstacles                                                                                            2b                        b
14.2 Handle poles
14.2.1 Load/Unload poles                                                                                               2b                        b
14.2.2 Transport poles                                                                                                  a                        b
14.2.3 Frame poles                                                                                                                               b
14.2.4 Set utility poles                                                                                               2b                        c
14.3 Install
14.3.1 Guys                                                                                                            1b                        c
14.3.2 Overhead line conductors                          *                                                             2b                        c
14.3.3 Anchors                                                                                                          b                        c




                                                                42                                                                          Attachment 2
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course    DL     Course CDC       Course     DL
14.3.4 Pole equipment
14.3.4.1 Conductor support devices                       *                                                             2b                        c
14.3.4.2 Transformers                                    *                                                             2b                        c
14.3.4.3 Protective devices                              *                                                             2b                        c
14.3.5 High Voltage Switches                                                                                            a                        b
14.3.6 Armor rod                                                                                                        a                        b
14.3.7 Grounding set                                     *                                                             2b                        c       2b
14.3.8 Services
14.3.8.1 Drop                                                                                                          1b                        c
14.3.8.2 Laterals                                                                                                       b                        b
14.4 Inspect poles                                       *                                                             2b                        c
14.5 Perform di-electric test of oil                                                                                                             b
14.6 Perform recurring maintenance on                                                                                   a                        b
   overhead distribution equipment
14.7 Isolate system faults                                                                                              b                        c
14.8 Splice de-energized overhead                                                                                      1b                        c
   conductor
14.9 Splice energized overhead conductor                                                                                                         b
14.10 Replace conductor support on                                                                                                               b
   energized conductors
14.11 Replace conductor support on de-                                                                                 1b                        b
   energized conductors
14.12 Transfer de-energized conductors                                                                                  b                        b
   from old pole to new pole
14.13 Transfer energized conductors                                                                                                              b
   from old pole to new pole
14.14 Perform transformer connections                    *                                                             2b                        c
14.15 Troubleshoot pole mount                                                                                          1b                        c
   transformer
15 UNDERGROUND DISTRIBUTION
 SYSTEMS
 TR: AFMs 88-9; AFJAM 32-1082; AFI
 32-1064; AFOSH STD 91-10, 91-25;
 Lineman's and Cableman's
 Handbook; ANSI C-2; National
 Electrical Safety Code
15.1 Install
15.1.1 Direct burial cable                                                                                              b                        c
15.1.2 Underground duct systems                                                                                         a                        b
15.1.3 Underground cable in duct                                                                                       1b                        c
15.1.4 Transformers
15.1.4.1 On pads                                         *                                                              b                        c
15.1.4.2 In vaults                                                                                                      b                        c
15.1.5 Grounding set                                     *                                                             2b                        c       2b
15.2 Splice high voltage underground
   cable
15.2.1 Using tape                                        *                                                             2b                        b       2b
15.2.2 Using pre-form kits                                                                                              a                        b
15.3 Terminate high voltage underground                  *                                                             b                         b
   cable
15.4 Inspect
15.4.1 Terminations                                                                                                     b                        c
15.4.2 Underground splices                                                                                              b                        b


                                                                43                                                                          Attachment 2
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course    DL     Course CDC       Course     DL

15.5 Perform high potential DC test on                                                                                 1b                        c
   underground cable
15.6 Troubleshoot underground cables                                                                                   2b                        c
   for faults
15.7 Trace underground cables with cable                 *                                                             2b                        c
   test set
15.8 Isolate system faults                                                                                             2b                        c
15.9 Fabricate load break elbow                          *                                                             2b                        c       3c
15.10 Troubleshoot pad mount                                                                                           1b                        c
   transformer
15.11 Construct distribution systems                                                                                                             b
16 DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS, 600
 VOLTS AND LESS
 TR: AFI 32-1063; AFJMAN 32-1083;
 AFOSH STD 91-10; National Electrical
 Code
16.1 Install
16.1.1 Service entrance                                                                                                1b                        b
16.1.2 Service equipment
16.1.2.1 Meter base                                                                                                    1b                        b
16.1.2.2 Disconnect                                                                                                    2b                        c
16.1.3 Grounding
16.1.3.1 System                                          *                                                             2b                        c        c
16.1.3.2 Equipment                                       *                                                             2b                        c        c
16.1.3.3 Bonding                                         *                                                             2b                        c        c
16.1.4 Feeders                                           *                                                             2b                        c
16.1.5 Distribution panels                                                                                             2b                        c
16.1.6 Branch circuits                                   *                                                             2b                        c
16.1.7 Devices
16.1.7.1 Switches                                                                                                      2b                        b
16.1.7.2 Receptacles                                                                                                   2b                        b
16.1.8 Fault protection
16.1.8.1 Ground fault circuit interrupter
       (GFCI)
16.1.8.1.1 Receptacle                                                                                                  2b                        c
16.1.8.1.2 Breaker                                                                                                     2b                        c
16.1.8.2 Arc fault circuit interrupter                                                                                 b                         c
       (AFCI)
16.1.9 Wiring Methods
16.1.9.1 Nonmetallic sheathed cable                                                                                     b                        b
16.1.9.2 Surface raceway
16.1.9.3 Conduit
16.1.9.3.1 Rigid Metal                                                                                                 2b                        b
16.1.9.3.2 Electrical metallic tubing                                                                                  2b                        b
         (EMT)
16.1.9.3.3 Flexible metal                                                                                              2b                        b
16.1.10 Electrical systems in hazardous                                                                                b                         c
     locations
16.1.11 Dry Transformers                                                                                                a                        b
16.1.12 Overcurrent protection devices                   *                                                             2b                        c
16.1.13 Luminaires
16.1.13.1 Incandescent                                                                                                 2b                        b
16.1.13.2 Fluorescent                                                                                                  2b                        b


                                                                44                                                                          Attachment 2
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course    DL     Course CDC       Course     DL

16.2 Distribution systems
16.2.1 Maintain                                                                                                         b                        c
16.2.2 Troubleshoot                                      *                                                             2b                        c
16.3 Read service meters                                                                                                                         b
16.4 Maintain transformers                                                                                                                       b
16.5 Electrical systems in hazardous
   locations
16.5.1 Maintain                                                                                                         b                        b
16.5.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                                     b                        c
16.6 Electrical appliances
16.6.1 Principles                                                                                                      A                         B
16.6.2 Install                                                                                                         a                         b
16.6.3 Maintain                                                                                                                                  b
16.6.4 Toubleshoot                                                                                                                               b
16.7 Principles of Power conditioners
16.8 Cathodic Protection
16.8.1 Principles                                                                                                                                B
16.8.2 Maintain                                                                                                                                  b
16.8.3 Troubleshoot                                                                                                                              b
17 AIRFIELD LIGHTING SYSTEMS
 TR: AFI 32-1044; AFP 91-28;
TOs 35F5-3-12-1, 35F5-4-2-1
17.1 Airfield lighting system                                                                                           B                        C
   configuration
17.2 Replace
17.2.1 Airfield lighting systems                                                                                       2b                        c
     components
17.2.2 Condenser discharge components                                                                                                            b
17.2.3 Rotating beacon components                                                                                       a                        b
17.2.4 Airfield fixture lamps                                                                                          2b
17.2.5 Isolating (IL) transformers                       *                                                             3c                        c
17.3 Maintain airfield lighting systems
17.3.1 Constant current regulator                        *                                                             2b                        b
17.3.2 Control components                                *                                                             b                         c
17.3.3 Counterpoise components                                                                                          b                        b
17.3.4 Fixtures                                                                                                        2b                        c
17.3.5 Airport beacon                                                                                                   b                        b
17.3.6 Obstruction lights                                                                                               b                        b
17.3.7 Condenser discharge light unit                                                                                   b                        b
17.3.8 Master sequence control timer unit                                                                               a                        b
17.3.9 Approach path indicators                          *                                                             2b                        c
17.4 Isolate airfield lighting circuits or               *                                                             2b                        c
   equipment
17.5 Test airfield lighting cable                                                                                      2b                        c
17.6 Inspect
17.6.1 Airfield beacon                                                                                                  b                        b
17.6.2 Obstruction lights                                                                                               b                        b
17.7 Connect airfield lighting constant                  *                                                              b                        c       2b
   current regulator for emergency
   operation
17.8 Troubleshoot
17.8.1 Airfield lighting circuits                        *                                                             2b                        b
17.8.2 Airfield lighting control circuits                                                                              1b                        b

                                                                45                                                                          Attachment 2
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course    DL     Course CDC       Course     DL

17.8.3 Condenser discharge light unit                                                                                  1b                        b
17.9 Repair airfield lighting cable
17.9.1 Use connector splice kit                                                                                        2b                        c
17.9.2 Use resin splice kit                                                                                            b                         c
17.10 Identify airdrome signals                                                                                        b
17.11 Use radios                                                                                                        b
18 LIGHTING SYSTEMS (STREET,
 TRAFFIC, FACILITY, SECURITY,
 RECREATIONAL)
 TR: AFJAM 32-1082; Lineman's and
 Cableman's Handbook; National
 Electrical Code
18.1 Install
18.1.1 High intensity discharge (HID)                                                                                  1b                        b
     light fixtures
18.1.2 Quartz fixtures                                                                                                 1b                        b
18.1.3 Lighting control components                                                                                     1b                        b
18.2 Adjust
18.2.1 Controls                                                                                                        1b                        b
18.2.2 Fixtures
18.3 Relamp lighting system                                                                                            1b                        b
18.4 Troubleshoot lighting systems                                                                                     1b                        b
18.5 Traffic control systems
18.5.1 Principles                                                                                                      A                         B
18.5.2 Maintain                                                                                                                                  b
18.5.3 Troubleshoot                                                                                                                              b
19 MOTORS AND MOTOR CONTROL
 CIRCUITS
 TR: AFJMAN 32-1083; AFI 32-1063;
 National Electrical Code
19.1 Install
19.1.1 Motors                                                                                                          1b                        b
19.1.2 Motor control circuits                            *                                                             2b                        b
19.2 Maintain
19.2.1 Motors                                                                                                           b                        b
19.2.2 Motor control circuits                                                                                           b                        b
19.3 Troubleshoot
19.3.1 Motors                                                                                                          1b                        c
19.3.2 Motor control circuits
19.3.2.1 Across-the-line starters                                                                                      1b                        b
19.3.2.2 Reduced voltage starters
19.3.2.2.1 STAR DELTA
19.3.2.2.2 Auto transformer                                                                                             a                        b
19.3.2.2.3 Resistor                                                                                                     a                        b
19.3.2.3 Solid state                                                                                                    a                        b
19.3.2.4 Reversing starters                                                                                             a                        b
19.3.2.5 Frequency drive                                                                                                                         a




                                                                46                                                                          Attachment 2
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course    DL     Course CDC       Course     DL

20 ELECTRICAL GROUND
    SYSTEMS
 TR: AFI 32-1065; NFPA 77, NFPA
 780, IEEE Standard 142 -
 Recommended Practice for
  Grounding of Industrial and
 Commercial Power Systems; National
 Electrical Code
20.1 Principles
20.1.1 Primary distribution system                                                                                      B                        C
     grounds
20.1.2 Facility subsystem grounds                                                                                      B                         C
20.1.3 Lightning protection systems                                                                                    B                         C        C
20.1.4 Static grounds                                                                                                  B                         C
20.1.5 Computer grounds                                                                                                A                         B
20.1.6 Bonding                                                                                                         B                         C
20.2 Install
20.2.1 Primary distribution system                                                                                      b                        c
     grounds
20.2.2 Facility subsystem grounds                                                                                       b                        c
20.2.3 Lightning protection system                                                                                      b                        c
20.2.4 Computer grounds                                                                                                                          b
20.2.5 Bonding                                                                                                          b                        c
20.2.6 Static grounds                                                                                                                            b
20.3 Maintain
20.3.1 Lightning protection system                                                                                      b                        c
20.3.2 Primary distribution system                                                                                      b                        c
     grounds
20.3.3 Facility subsystem grounds                                                                                       b                        c
20.4 Test
20.4.1 Lightning protection systems                                                                                     b                        c
20.4.2 Primary distribution system                                                                                      b                        c
     grounds
20.4.3 Facility subsystem grounds                                                                                      1b                        c
20.4.4 Computer grounds                                                                                                                          b
20.4.5 Static grounds                                                                                                                            b
20.5 Troubleshoot
20.5.1 Primary distribution system                                                                                                               b
     grounds
20.5.2 Facility subsystem grounds                                                                                                                b
20.5.3 Computer grounds                                                                                                                          b
20.5.4 Lightning protection                                                                                                                      b
21 LIFE SAFETY SYSTEMS
 TR: AFMs NFPA 101, NFPA 72; AFI
 32-2001; AFJMAN 32-1083; TO 31S9
 series; National Electrical Code
21.1 Principles
21.1.1 Fire alarm systems                                                                                              A                         B
21.1.2 Emergency lighting systems                                                                                      A                         B
21.1.3 Base warning systems                                                                                            A                         B
21.2 Install
21.2.1 Fire alarm systems                                                                                               a                        b
21.2.2 Emergency lighting systems                                                                                       a                        b


                                                                47                                                                          Attachment 2
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course    DL     Course CDC       Course     DL

21.3 Maintain
21.3.1 Fire alarm systems                                                                                               a                        b
21.3.2 Emergency lighting systems                                                                                       a                        b
21.3.3 Base warning systems                                                                                                                      b
21.4 Troubleshoot
21.4.1 Fire alarm systems                                                                                               a                        b
21.4.2 Emergency lighting systems                                                                                       a                        b
21.4.3 Base warning systems                                                                                                                      b
22 TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT
 TR: AFI 32-1064; NFPA 70E; TO's 31-
 10-3, 32-1-2, 32-1-101; 32-1-151;
 AFOSH STD 91-10; Hot Sticks Manual
 (AB Chance); ANSI C-2; National
 Electrical Safety Code
22.1 Maintain
22.1.1 Hot line tools                                    *                                                              b                        c        c
22.1.2 Rubber personal protective                        *                                                              b                        c        c
     equipment
22.1.3 Protective equipment
22.1.3.1 Rubber                                                                                                         b                        c
22.1.3.2 Polyethylene                                                                                                   b                        c
22.1.4 Pole trailer                                                                                                                              b
22.1.5 Reel jacks                                                                                                                                b
22.1.6 Cable pulling guide                                                                                                                       b
22.1.7 Handline                                                                                                         a                        b
22.1.8 Block and tackle                                                                                                 a                        b
22.1.9 Chain hoist                                                                                                      a                        b
22.1.10 Climbing equipment                               *                                                             2b                        c
22.2 Use electrician s handtools                                                                                       2b                        b
22.3 Use portable power tools                                                                                          2b                        b
22.4 Test hot line tools                                                                                                                         c
22.5 Use test equipment
22.5.1 Multimeter                                        *                                                             3c                        c
22.5.2 Clamp-on ammeter                                  *                                                             3c                        c
22.5.3 Phase rotation meter                              *                                                             1b                        c
22.5.4 Megohmmeter                                       *                                                             3c                        c
22.5.5 Circuit breaker tester                                                                                                                    b
22.5.6 Tachometer                                                                                                                                b
22.5.7 Frequency meter                                                                                                                           b
22.5.8 Cathodic protection set                                                                                                                   b
22.5.9 Recording meters                                                                                                                          b
22.5.10 Circuit tracer                                                                                                 1b                        c
22.5.11 Infrared scanner                                                                                                                         b
22.5.12 Gas detector                                                                                                   2b                        b
22.5.13 Hot stick tester                                                                                                a                        b
22.5.14 High voltage phase tester                        *                                                             1b                        c
22.5.15 Relay tester                                                                                                                             b
22.5.16 Earth resistance tester                                                                                        1b                        b
22.5.17 Cable fault locator, low voltage                                                                               1b                        b
22.5.18 Cable locator                                                                                                  1b                        b
22.5.19 High potential DC tester                                                                                       1b                        c
22.5.20 High voltage audible indicator                                                                                                           c



                                                                48                                                                          Attachment 2
                                                2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                      Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course    DL     Course CDC       Course     DL

22.6 Perform operator's maintenance on                    *                                                             1b                        b
   aerial lift truck with insulated bucket
 TR: AFI 24-301; TOs 36A12-5-1-181
   and 182
22.7 Perform operator's maintenance on                    *                                                             1b                        b
   line maintenance truck
22.8 Operate aerial lift truck controls                   *                                                             1b                        b
22.9 Operate line maintenance truck                                                                                     1b                        b
   controls
22.10 Use hand signals to direct line                     *                                                             1b                        b
   maintenance truck operation
22.11 Di-electrically test aerial lift trucks                                                                            a                        b       1c
22.12 Di-electrically test line                                                                                                                   b       c
   maintenance trucks
22.13 Operate other aerial lift equipment
22.14 Use conduit benders
22.14.1 Manual                                                                                                          2b                        b
22.14.2 Hydraulic                                                                                                       1b                        b
22.14.3 Electric                                                                                                        1b                        b
22.15 Use manual conduit threaders                                                                                      1b                        b
22.16 Use power conduit threaders                                                                                       1b                        b
22.17 Use soldering equipment                                                                                           1b
22.18 Use hydraulic knockout                                                                                            1b                        b
23 FOREIGN ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS
23.1 Electrical terms and systems                                                                                                                 A
23.2 Electrical distribution systems
23.2.1 Voltages                                                                                                                                   A
23.2.2 Wiring color code                                                                                                                          A
23.2.3 Wire sizes                                                                                                                                 A
23.2.4 Installation                                                                                                                               A
23.2.5 Wire or cable types                                                                                                                        A
23.3 Distribution panels                                                                                                                          A
23.4 Protective devices                                                                                                                           A
24 AFSC SPECIFIC CONTINGENCY
 RESPONSIBILITIES
 TR: AFIs 10-210; 10- 211; 32-1026;
 TOs 35E-5-6-1, 35E4-132-1, 35E4-94-
 1; Army TMs
10-8340-207-14, 10-450-200-12; WMP-1,
 Annex S; (2004); AFPAM 10-219, Vol
 2, 3, 4, 5 , & 10
24.1 Airfield support systems
24.1.1 Mobile Aircraft Arresting System
     (MAAS)
 TR: TO's 35E8-2-10-3; 35E8-2-5-4;
     35E8-2-10-1S-1, 35E8-2-11-1,
     35E8-2-11-2; AFPAM 10-219, Vol
     3, 4 & 5; AFI 13-217
24.1.1.1 Install                                                                                                         a                        b
24.1.1.2 Maintain                                                                                                                                 b




                                                                 49                                                                          Attachment 2
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course    DL     Course CDC       Course     DL

24.1.2 Emergency Airfield Lighting
     System (EALS)
  TR: AFPAM 10-219, Vol 3, 4 & 5
24.1.2.1 Install
24.1.2.1.1 Approach / Strobes                    ♦                                                                     2b                        b
24.1.2.1.2 Runway                                ♦                                                                     2b                        b
24.1.2.1.3 PAPI                                  ♦                                                                     2b                        b
24.1.2.1.4 Taxiway                               ♦                                                                     1b                        b
24.1.2.1.5 Distance to go (DTG)                  ♦                                                                     1b                        b
24.1.2.1.6 Regulator                             ♦                                                                     2b                        b
24.1.2.1.7 Generator                             ♦                                                                     1b                        b
24.1.2.1.8 Obstruction lights                    ♦                                                                     1b                        b
24.1.2.2 Operate
24.1.2.2.1 Regulator                             ♦                                                                     1b                        b
24.1.2.2.2 Generator                             ♦                                                                     1b                        b
24.1.2.2.3 Obstruction lights                                                                                          1b                        b
24.1.2.3 Maintain
24.1.2.3.1 Approach / Strobes                                                                                           b                        b
24.1.2.3.2 Runway                                                                                                       b                        b
24.1.2.3.3 PAPI                                                                                                         b                        b
24.1.2.3.4 Taxiway                                                                                                      b                        b
24.1.2.3.5 Distance to go (DTG)                                                                                         b                        b
24.1.2.3.6 Regulator                                                                                                    b                        b
24.1.2.3.7 Generator                                                                                                    b                        b
24.1.2.3.8 Obstruction lights                                                                                           b                        b
24.1.2.4 Troubleshoot
24.1.2.4.1 Approach / Strobes                    ♦
24.1.2.4.2 PAPI                                  ♦
24.1.2.4.3 Regulator                             ♦
24.1.2.4.4 Generator
24.2 Expedient beddown methods
24.2.1 BEAR Assets
24.2.1.1 Shelter lighting
  TR: Ref: AFPAM 10-219, Vol 5; TO
       35E5-3-6-1; AFH 10-222, Vol 1
24.2.1.1.1 Install                                                                                                      b                        b
24.2.1.1.2 Remove                                                                                                       b                        b
24.2.1.2 Remote Area Lighting
(RAL) Set
  TR: AFPAM 10-219, Vol 5; TO 00-
       105-12
24.2.1.2.1 Install                               ♦                                                                     2b                        b
24.2.1.2.2 Operate                               ♦                                                                     b                         b
24.2.1.2.3 Maintain                              ♦                                                                     b                         c
24.2.1.3 Telescopic floodlight set
  TR: TO 35F5-5-6-1; AFPAM 10-219,
       Vol 5
24.2.1.3.1 Install                                                                                                      a                        b
24.2.1.3.2 Operate                                                                                                      a                        b
24.2.1.3.3 Maintain                                                                                                                              a




                                                                50                                                                          Attachment 2
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course    DL     Course CDC       Course     DL

24.2.1.4 BEAR Kitchen Equipment
 TR: TO 35E4-169-1; AFPAM 10-219,
       Vol 5
24.2.1.4.1 Install power supply                  ♦                                                                      b                        b
24.2.1.4.2 Maintain electrical systems                                                                                  b                        b
24.2.1.5 Reverse osmosis water
       purification unit (ROWPU)
       electrical system
 TR: TO's 40W4-13-2, 40W4-13-41;
       30W4-9-1; TM 5-4610-215-24;
       AFPAM 10-219, Vol 2 & 5
24.2.1.5.1 Install                                                                                                      b                        b
24.2.1.5.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 a                        b
24.2.1.6 Electrical distribution system
 TR: TO 35C6-9-1; 00-105A-12; 00-
       105K-2; 40W4-9-1C; 40W4-13-1;
       50D1-3-1; 35E4-169-1; 35E5-6-
       11; 5E5-6-21; 35CA2-2-10-1;
       AFPAM 10-219, 10-210, Vol 5;
       TO 35F14-1-1
24.2.1.6.1 Primary distribution system
24.2.1.6.1.1 Install
24.2.1.6.1.1.1 Power source                                                                                             a                        b
24.2.1.6.1.1.2 Primary Distribution              ♦                                                                     2b                        c
             Center (PDC)
24.2.1.6.1.1.3 Secondary Distribution            ♦                                                                     2b                        c
             Center (SDC-HV section)
24.2.1.6.1.1.4 High voltage cable                ♦                                                                     2b                        c
24.2.1.6.1.1.5 Deployable Power                  ♦                                                                     b                         b
             Generation and Distribution
             system (DPGDS) Primary
             Switching Center (PSC)
24.2.1.6.1.2 Operate
24.2.1.6.1.2.1 Power source                                                                                             a                        b
24.2.1.6.1.2.2 PDC                               ♦                                                                     2b                        c
24.2.1.6.1.2.3 SDC-HV section                    ♦                                                                     2b                        c
24.2.1.6.1.2.4 PSC                               ♦                                                                     b                         b
24.2.1.6.1.3 Maintain
24.2.1.6.1.3.1 PDC                               ♦                                                                      b                        c
24.2.1.6.1.3.2 SDC-HV section                    ♦                                                                      b                        c
24.2.1.6.1.3.3 PSC                               ♦                                                                      a                        a
24.2.1.6.1.4 Troubleshoot
24.2.1.6.1.4.1 PDC                               ♦                                                                     1b                        c
24.2.1.6.1.4.2 SDC-HV section                    ♦                                                                     1b                        c
24.2.1.6.1.4.3 PSC
24.2.1.6.1.4.4 Isolate, block and tag                                                                                                                    3c
             equipment
24.2.1.6.2 Secondary distribution
            system
24.2.1.6.2.1 Install
24.2.1.6.2.1.1 Power source                                                                                             a                        b
24.2.1.6.2.1.2 SDC-LV section                    ♦                                                                     2b                        b
24.2.1.6.2.1.3 Power distribution panel          ♦                                                                     2b                        b
             (PDP)

                                                                51                                                                          Attachment 2
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course    DL     Course CDC       Course     DL

24.2.1.6.2.1.4 LV cables                         ♦                                                                     2b                        b
24.2.1.6.2.2 Operate
24.2.1.6.2.2.1 Power source                                                                                             a                        b
24.2.1.6.2.2.2 SDC-LV section                    ♦                                                                     2b                        b
24.2.1.6.2.2.3 PDP                               ♦                                                                     2b                        b
24.2.1.6.2.3 Maintain
24.2.1.6.2.3.1 SDC-LV section                    ♦                                                                      b                        b
24.2.1.6.2.3.2 PDP                               ♦                                                                      b                        b
24.2.1.6.2.4 Troubleshoot
24.2.1.6.2.4.1 SDC-LV section                    ♦                                                                     1b                        b
24.2.1.6.2.4.2 PDP                               ♦                                                                     1b                        b
24.2.1.6.2.4.3 LV cables                         ♦                                                                     1b                        b
24.2.1.6.3 Install Grounds                       ♦                                                                     b                         b
24.2.1.6.4 Plan distribution system                                                                                                                       c
24.2.2 Electrical support
 TR: AFPAM 10-219, Vol 5
24.2.2.1 Facility repair
 TR: AFPAM 10-219, Vol 3
24.2.2.1.1 Electrical systems expedient                                                                                 b                        b
         repair
24.2.2.1.2 Expedient generator                                                                                          b                        b
         installation
24.2.2.2 Medical facilities                                                                                                                      b
24.2.2.3 Chemically hardened Air                                                                                                                 a
       Management Plant (CHAMP)




                                                                52                                                                          Attachment 2
                           AFQTP Documentation Record
                                For AFSC 3E0X1
- Download applicable AFQTPs at : https://www.my.af.mil/3E0X1 AFTR QTP
-Trainers/Certifiers enter their name and initials in the identification block at beginning of the STS
- Upon administering AFQTPs, enter start date in column 4 of this record
- Upon completion of each unit, document columns 5, 6, and 7
- Upon completion of applicable CerTests, trainer will place the completion date in column 8
- Transcribe by entering current date in columns 5 and 8, Trainees & Trainers Initials in columns 6 & 7
    1                            2                                              3             4               5          6          7
  TASK            TASKS, KNOWLEDGE, AND TECHNICAL




                                                                                * 5 LEVEL


                                                                                              START DATE

                                                                                                           DATE
                                                                                                           COMPLETE

                                                                                                                      INITIALS
                                                                                                                      TRAINEE'S

                                                                                                                                  INITIALS
                                                                                                                                  TRAINER’S
                                                                 ♦ SEE NOTE 1
                                                                                * * 7 LEVEL
 NUMBER                     REFERENCES




     8.       AFS SPECIFIC SAFETY STANDARDS
              Ref: AFQTP Module 8 - AFS SPECIFIC SAFETY STANDARDS

   8.1.1.     Use AF Form 979                                                    *

   8.1.2.     Use AF Form 980                                                    *

  8.1.3.1.    Use AF Form 269 when performing switching                         **


  8.1.3.2.    Use AF Form 269 when blocking and tagging                         **

   8.1.4.     Plan safe clearance                                               **


   8.5.1.     Hotline tools (Conduct safety inspections of)                      *


   8.5.2.     Rubber personal protective equipment                               *
              (Conduct safety inspections of)

    8.7.      Conduct safety meeting/tail gate briefing                          *

    8.8.      Determine PPE requirements                                         *


    11.       ELECTRICAL FUNDAMENTALS
              Ref: AFQTP Module 11 - ELECTRICAL FUNDAMENTALS
   1                           2                                      3              4            5          6           7




                                                                * * 7 LEVEL
 TASK           TASKS, KNOWLEDGE, AND TECHNICAL




                                                                  * 5 LEVEL


                                                                                  START DATE


                                                                                               DATE
                                                                                               COMPLETE


                                                                                                          INITIALS
                                                                                                          TRAINEE'S


                                                                                                                      INITIALS
                                                                                                                      TRAINER’S
NUMBER                    REFERENCES




                                                                     SEE NOTE 1
 11.4.    Compute for voltage, current, resistance, and power
                                                                       *

  14.     OVERHEAD DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS
          Ref: AFQTP Module 14 - OVERHEAD DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS

14.1.1.   Using gaffs (Climb poles)
                                                                       *

14.1.2.   Working on pole components (Climb poles)
                                                                       *

14.3.2.   Overhead line conductors (Install)
                                                                       *

14.3.4.1. Conductor support devices (Install, Pole equipment)
                                                                       *

14.3.4.2. Transformers (Install, Pole equipment)
                                                                       *

14.3.4.3. Protective devices (Install, Pole equipment)
                                                                       *

14.3.7.   Grounding set (Install)
                                                                       *

 14.4.    Inspect poles
                                                                       *

 14.14.   Perform transformer connections
                                                                       *

  15.     UNDERGROUND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS
          Ref: AFQTP Module 15 - UNDERGROUND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS

15.1.4.1. On pads (Install, Transformers)
                                                                       *

15.1.5.   Grounding set (Install)
                                                                       *




                                                     54                                                   Attachment 3
   1                            2                                        3              4            5          6           7




                                                                   * * 7 LEVEL
 TASK            TASKS, KNOWLEDGE, AND TECHNICAL




                                                                     * 5 LEVEL


                                                                                     START DATE


                                                                                                  DATE
                                                                                                  COMPLETE


                                                                                                             INITIALS
                                                                                                             TRAINEE'S


                                                                                                                         INITIALS
                                                                                                                         TRAINER’S
NUMBER                     REFERENCES




                                                                        SEE NOTE 1
15.2.1.   Using Tape (Splice high voltage underground cable)
                                                                          *

 15.3.    Terminate high voltage underground cable
                                                                          *

 15.7.    Trace underground cables with cable test set
                                                                          *

 15.9.    Fabricate load break elbow
                                                                          *

  16.     DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS, 600 VOLTS AND LESS
          Ref: AFQTP Module 16 - DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS, 600 VOLTS AND LESS

16.1.3.1. System (Install, Grounding)
                                                                          *

16.1.3.2. Equipment (Install, Grounding)
                                                                          *

16.1.3.3. Bonding (Install, Grounding)
                                                                          *

16.1.4.   Feeders (Install)
                                                                          *

16.1.6.   Branch circuits (Install)
                                                                          *

16.1.12. Over current protection devices (Install)
                                                                          *

16.2.2.   Troubleshoot (Distribution systems)
                                                                          *

  17.     AIFIELD LIGHTING SYSTEMS
          Ref: AFQTP Module 17 - AIRFIELD LIGHTING SYSTEMS
17.2.5.   Isolating (IL) transformers (Replace)
                                                                          *

17.3.1.   Constant Current Regulator (Maintain airfield lighting
          systems)                                                        *




                                                      55                                                     Attachment 3
   1                            2                                      3              4            5          6           7




                                                                 * * 7 LEVEL
 TASK            TASKS, KNOWLEDGE, AND TECHNICAL




                                                                   * 5 LEVEL


                                                                                   START DATE


                                                                                                DATE
                                                                                                COMPLETE


                                                                                                           INITIALS
                                                                                                           TRAINEE'S


                                                                                                                       INITIALS
                                                                                                                       TRAINER’S
NUMBER                     REFERENCES




                                                                      SEE NOTE 1
17.3.2    Control components (Maintain airfield lighting
          systems)                                                      *

17.3.10. Approach path indicators (Maintain airfield lighting
         systems)                                                       *

 17.4.    Isolate airfield lighting circuits or equipment
                                                                        *

 17.7.    Connect airfield lighting constant current regulator
          for emergency operation                                       *

17.8.1.   Airfield lighting circuits (Troubleshoot)
                                                                        *

  19.     MOTORS AND MOTOR CONTROL CIRCUITS
          Ref: AFQTP Module 19 - MOTORS AND MOTOR CONTROL CIRCUITS

19.1.2.   Motor control circuits (Install)
                                                                        *

  22.     TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT
          Ref: AFQTP Module 22 - TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT

22.1.1.   Hotline tools (Maintain)
                                                                        *

22.1.2.   Rubber personal protective equipment (Maintain)
                                                                        *

22.1.10 Climbing equipment (Maintain)
                                                                        *

22.5.1    Multimeter (Use test equipment)
                                                                        *

22.5.2.   Clamp-on ammeter (Use test equipment)
                                                                        *

22.5.3.   Phase rotation meter (Use test equipment)
                                                                        *

22.5.4.   Megohmmeter (Use test equipment)
                                                                        *




                                                        56                                                 Attachment 3
   1                           2                                    3              4            5          6           7




                                                              * * 7 LEVEL
 TASK           TASKS, KNOWLEDGE, AND TECHNICAL




                                                                * 5 LEVEL


                                                                                START DATE


                                                                                             DATE
                                                                                             COMPLETE


                                                                                                        INITIALS
                                                                                                        TRAINEE'S


                                                                                                                    INITIALS
                                                                                                                    TRAINER’S
NUMBER                    REFERENCES




                                                                   SEE NOTE 1
22.5.14. High voltage phase tester (Use test equipment)
                                                                     *

 22.6.   Perform operator's maintenance on high reach truck
         with insulated bucket                                       *
         REF: AFI 24-30; TOs 36A12-5-1-181and182
 22.7.   Perform operator's maintenance on line
         maintenance truck                                           *

 22.8.   Operate aerial lift truck controls
                                                                     *

 22.9.   Operate line maintenance truck controls
                                                                     *




                                                   57                                                   Attachment 3
NOTE 1: ♦ Diamond tasks are extremely important to the career field. Diamond tasks are the same as core tasks with
one exception--equipment shortfalls at most locations have created problems with the actual hands-on certification of these
tasks. In instances where required equipment is not available for instruction, completion of the task’s AFQTP and passing
the corresponding CerTest is all that is required for upgrade training. Document the AFQTP documentation record once
the AFQTP/CerTest is completed. Document the STS only if hands-on certification was accomplished. Hands-on
certification shall be accomplished at the first opportunity when equipment is available.

       1                              2                                 3          4                5                   6            7              8




                                                                   ♦ SEE NOTTE 1
                                                                   * * 7 LEVEL




                                                                                                                                                 COMP DATE
                                                                                                                                                 CerTest
                                                                     * 5 EVEL



                                                                                       START DATE



                                                                                                        COMPLETE DATE


                                                                                                                        INITIALS
                                                                                                                        TRAINEE'S


                                                                                                                                     INITIALS
                                                                                                                                     TRAINER’S
   TASK          TASKS, KNOWLEDGE, AND TECHNICAL
  NUMBER                   REFERENCES




24.             AFSC SPECIFIC CONTINGENCY RESPONSIBILITIES
                Ref: AFQTP Module 24 - AFSC SPECIFIC CONTINGENCY RESPONSIBILITIES

24.1.2.1.1.     Approach/ Strobes (Emergency Airfield
                Lighting, Install)                                      ♦

24.1.2.1.2.     Runway (Emergency Airfield Lighting, Install)
                                                                        ♦

24.1.2.1.3.     PAPI (Emergency Airfield Lighting, Install)
                                                                        ♦

24.1.2.1.4.     Taxiway (Emergency Airfield Lighting, Install)          ♦


24.1.2.1.5.     Distance To Go (DTG) (Emergency Airfield                ♦
                Lighting, Install)

24.1.2.1.6.     Regulator (Emergency Airfield Lighting,                 ♦
                Install)

24.1.2.1.7.     Generator (Emergency Airfield Lighting,                 ♦
                Install)

24.1.2.1.8.     Obstruction lights (Emergency Airfield                  ♦
                Lighting, Install)

24.1.2.2.1.     Regulator (Emergency Airfield Lighting,                 ♦
                Operate)

24.1.2.2.2.     Generator (Emergency Airfield Lighting,                 ♦
                Operate)




                                                              58                                                                Attachment 3
       1                                2                               3          4                5                   6            7              8




                                                                   ♦ SEE NOTTE 1
                                                                   * * 7 LEVEL




                                                                                                                                                 COMP DATE
                                                                                                                                                 CerTest
                                                                     * 5 EVEL



                                                                                       START DATE



                                                                                                        COMPLETE DATE


                                                                                                                        INITIALS
                                                                                                                        TRAINEE'S


                                                                                                                                     INITIALS
                                                                                                                                     TRAINER’S
   TASK            TASKS, KNOWLEDGE, AND TECHNICAL
  NUMBER                     REFERENCES




24.1.2.4.1.      Approach/Strobes (Emergency Airfield Lighting,         ♦
                 Troubleshoot)

24.1.2.4.2.      PAPI (Emergency Airfield Lighting,                     ♦
                 Troubleshoot)

24.1.2.4.3.      Regulator (Emergency Airfield Lighting,                ♦
                 Troubleshoot)

24.2.1.2.1.      Install (Remote Area Lighting Set (RALS)               ♦


24.2.1.2.2.      Operate (Remote Area Lighting Set (RALS)               ♦


24.2.1.2.3.      Maintain (Remote Area Lighting Set (RALS)              ♦


24.2.1.6.1.1.2  Primary Distribution Center (PDC) (BEAR                 ♦
                Assets, Electrical Distribution System, Primary,
                Install)
24.2.1.6.1.1.3 Secondary Distribution System (SDC-HV)                   ♦
                (BEAR Assets, Electrical Distribution System,
                Primary, Install)
24.2.1.6.1.1.4. High voltage cable (BEAR Assets, Electrical             ♦
                Distribution System, Primary, Install)

24.2.1.6.1.1.5. DPGDS Primary Switching Center (PSC)                    ♦
                (BEAR Assets, Electrical Distribution System,
                Primary, Install)




                                                              59                                                                Attachment 3
     1                        2                                      3              4            5          6            7           8




                                                               * * 7 LEVEL
   TASK        TASKS, KNOWLEDGE, AND TECHNICAL




                                                                 * 5 LEVEL


                                                                                 START DATE


                                                                                              DATE
                                                                                              COMPLETE

                                                                                                         INITIALS
                                                                                                         TRAINEE'S


                                                                                                                      INITIALS
                                                                                                                      TRAINER’S


                                                                                                                                  COMP DATE
                                                                                                                                  CerTest
  NUMBER                 REFERENCES




                                                                    SEE NOTE 1
24.2.1.6.1.2.2 PDC (BEAR Assets, Electrical
               Distribution System, Primary, Operate)

24.2.1.6.1.2.3 SDC-HV (BEAR Assets, Electrical
               Distribution System, Primary, Operate)

24.2.1.6.1.2.4 PSC (BEAR Assets, Electrical
               Distribution System, Primary, Operate)

24.2.1.6.1.3.1 PDC (BEAR Assets, Electrical
               Distribution System, Primary, Maintain)

24.2.1.6.1.3.2 SDC-HV ((BEAR Assets Electrical
               Distribution System, Primary, Maintain)

24.2.1.6.1.3.3 PSC (BEAR Assets, Electrical
               Distribution System, Primary, Maintain)

24.2.1.6.1.4.1 PDC (BEAR Assets, Electrical
               Distribution System, Primary,
               Troubleshoot)

24.2.1.6.1.4.2 SDC-HV section (BEAR Assets, Electrical
               Distribution System, Primary,
               Troubleshoot)

24.2.1.6.2.1.2 SDC-LV section (BEAR Assets, Electrical
               Distribution System, Secondary, Install)

24.2.1.6.2.1.3 Power Distribution Pedestal (PDP)
               (BEAR Assets, Electrical Distribution
               System, Secondary, Install)

24.2.1.6.2.1.4 LV cables (BEAR Assets, Electrical
               Distribution System, Secondary, Install)




                                                          60                                                         Attachment 3
     1                         2                                3              4            5          6            7           8




                                                          * * 7 LEVEL
   TASK         TASKS, KNOWLEDGE, AND TECHNICAL




                                                            * 5 LEVEL


                                                                            START DATE


                                                                                         DATE
                                                                                         COMPLETE

                                                                                                    INITIALS
                                                                                                    TRAINEE'S


                                                                                                                 INITIALS
                                                                                                                 TRAINER’S


                                                                                                                             COMP DATE
                                                                                                                             CerTest
  NUMBER                  REFERENCES




                                                               SEE NOTE 1
24.2.1.6.2.2.2 SDC-LV section (BEAR Assets, Electrical
               Distribution System, Secondary, Operate)

24.2.1.6.2.2.3 PDP (BEAR Assets, Electrical
               Distribution System, Secondary, Operate)

24.2.1.6.2.3.1 SDC-LV section (BEAR Assets, Electrical
               Distribution System, Secondary,
               Maintain)

24.2.1.6.2.3.2 PDP (BEAR Assets, Electrical
               Distribution System, Secondary,
               Maintain)

24.2.1.6.2.4.1 SDC-LV section (BEAR Assets, Electrical
               Distribution System, Secondary,
               Troubleshoot)

24.2.1.6.2.4.2 PDP (BEAR Assets, Electrical
               Distribution System, Secondary,
               Troubleshoot)

24.2.1.6.2.4.3 LV cables (BEAR Assets, Electrical
               Distribution System, Secondary,
               Troubleshoot)

 24.2.1.6.3.   Install Grounds (BEAR Assets, Electrical
               Distribution System)




                                                     61                                                         Attachment 3
Section B – Course Objective List

4. Measurement. Measurement of each objective is indicated as follows: Written Test
(W) used to sample each knowledge objective and the knowledge components of
performance objectives. Progress checks (PC) administered by the instructor during
classroom or laboratory instruction time to assess the student’s accomplishment of
knowledge or performance objectives. Performance Test (P) used under specified
conditions in a formal testing mode to measure student accomplishment of performance
objectives after the teaching-learning activity has been completed.

 5. Standard. The standard is 70% on written examinations. Standards for performance
measurement are indicated in the objectives and delineated on the individual progress
checklist. Instructor assistance is provided as needed during the progress check, and
students may be required to repeat all or parts of the behavior until satisfactory
performance is attained.

6. Proficiency Level. Most task performance is taught to the “2b” proficiency level
which means the student can do most parts of the task, but does need assistance on the
hardest parts of the task (partially proficient). The student can also determine step-by-
step procedures for doing the task.

7. Course Objective.

       7.1. Initial Skills Course. A detailed listing of the initial skills course objectives
       may be obtained by written request to 366 TRS/DO, 727 Missile Road, Sheppard
       AFB TX 76311-2254.

       7.2. Advanced Skills Course. A detailed listing of the Electrical Systems
       Craftsman Course objectives may be obtained by written request to 366 TRS/DO,
       727 Missile Road, Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2254.




                                             62
Section C – Support Materials

8. CerTest

8.1. Purpose. CerTest is a program that uses computer-based evaluation to ensure skilled
craftsmen are available to meet the Air Force's changing needs. It enhances upgrade and
qualification training by testing and evaluating an individual's knowledge of the
principles and procedures in each specialty.

       8.1.1. The program contains tests used evaluate task knowledge received through
       different media such as paper products (text), videotapes, and computer–based
       programs.

       8.1.2. The CerTest program contains mandatory tests, required for upgrade. All
       diamond coded tasks on the STS have either a corresponding CerTest or an
       associated test within the web based QTP itself.

       8.1.3. CerTest is also a powerful training management tool. It can be used to find
       the strengths and weaknesses in an individual's training and experience. CerTest
       automatically records and updates all test results. The training manager can copy
       records to a disk so that an individual can bring current, accurate training
       information to a new unit; thereby helping the gaining supervisor evaluate the
       trainee's knowledge and experience.

8.2. CerTest also enables unit personnel to develop site-specific tests. These custom made
tests standardize testing on tasks unique to a specific duty station and/or assignment. The
program contains a graphics library that may be used along with a menu-driven test editor
to develop these site-specific tests.

8.3. CerTest may also contains optional CDC pre-evaluation tools. Volume review
exercises are available for progress checks after each volume is completed. After all
volumes are completed in a set, the trainee may take the course review exercise before
taking the final End of Course exam at the base training office. Commanders are
encouraged to integrate these tools in their units' OJT program.

8.4. CerTest has been adopted as the Air Force platform for future electronic CDC
testing. The Air Force Institute for Distributive Learning (AFIADL) began using CerTest
on 1 June 2000. Currently, all CE AFSs are allowed to use AFIADL’s CerTest on
installations where Base Test Control Facilities (TCFs) are equipped. See your UETM for
further information.

8.5. The mandatory CerTests for each AFSC are identified, by number, with the
corresponding AFQTP on the 3E0X1 AFQTP Documentation Record.

8.6. For a complete list of up-to-date AFQTPs applicable to the 3E0X1 AFS see our web
page at     https://www.my.af.mil/3E0X1 AFTR QTP



                                            63
Section D – Training Course Index

9. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies the training course available for the
specialty and shows how the course are used by each MAJCOM in their career field
training programs. Refer to the Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA)
web site https://etca.randolph.af.mil/ for up-to-date information on all AETC courses
listed in this index.

10. Air Force In-Residence Courses.

Course Number               Title                                       Developer

J8ABR3E031 00AB             Electrical Systems Apprentice               366TRS

J3ACR3E071 00AA             Electrical Systems Craftsman                366TRS

J3AZR3E051 02AA             Cathodic Protection Maintenance             366TRS

J3AZR3E051 05AA             Airfield Lighting Systems                   366TRS

J3AZR3E051 07AA               Electrical Distribution Systems Maint      366TRS

J3AZR3E051 06AA               Bare Base Electrical Systems               366TRS

J3AZR3E051 08AA             Cable Testing and Splicing                  366TRS

J3AZR3E071 04AA             CE Advanced Electrical Troubleshooting      366TRS

11. Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning (AFIADL).

Course Number               Title                                       Developer

CDC 3E0X1 A/B               Electrical Systems Journeyman               366TRS

12. Courses Under Development/Revision

Course Number               Title                                       Developer

J3AZR3E051 07AB             Electrical Distribution Systems Maint        366TRS

J3AZR3E051 06AB             Bare Base Electrical Systems                 366TRS

CDC 3E0X1 C/D               Electrical Systems Journeyman                 366TRS




                                          64
Section E – MAJCOM Unique Requirements.

There are currently no MAJCOM unique requirements. This area is reserved.




                                         65
                         SECTION F - HOME STATION TRAINING

15. Purpose. The purpose of this section is to identify the tasks, training references, and training
sources available in support of contingency/wartime training. Prime BEEF forces will train to
meet the full range of tasks expected in the contingency environment. Training ranges from
knowledge-type training conducted in a classroom (CAT 1), to task-oriented hands-on (CAT II)
training conducted in the field. These training requirements, frequencies, and sources are listed in
AFI 10-210, Prime Base Emergency Engineer Force (BEEF) Program.

    15.1. Home Station Training (HST). HST is training that is conducted at the individual’s
    home station for contingency operations. The Civil Engineer Commander ensures training is
    provided and documented and arranges for subject matter experts to conduct training as
    required. Home Station training requirements fall into two categories, CAT I and CAT II.

           15.1.1. Category I (CAT-I) Training. Personnel assigned to base level Civil Engineer
           units will receive initial and refresher training in all CAT I (knowledge-based) topics as
           shown in AFI 10-210, Chapter 4, Attachment 2. Units will use Readiness Training
           Packages (RTPs), Qualification Training Packages (QTPs), other multimedia training
           packages, videos, and AF CE standardized lesson plans to present the material.
           MAJCOMs may develop and require other training materials to accomplish knowledge-
           based training.

                   15.1.1.1. Prime BEEF Orientation/General Contingency. Upon assignment
                   to the unit, all military and emergency-essential civilian employees will be
                   trained on the unit’s Prime BEEF and Emergency Management missions. The
                   training will emphasize the individual’s role and how he or she fits into the
                   program. It will also include an overview of Civil Engineer Doctrine and
                   explain the organization, training, equipment, operating concepts, and
                   contingency missions pertaining to the unit.

                   15.1.1.2. General Contingency Responsibilities Web-based CBT(GCR).
                   Personnel may receive annual credit for the applicable CAT I training through
                   completion of GCR/CBT. Use of this product has become critical in light of
                   recent reductions in technical Prime BEEF training and education. All airmen
                   should complete this course within 90 days upon arrival at their first duty
                   station (6 months for ARC members) and for annual recurring CAT I training
                   requirements.
                   https://afcesa.csd.disa.mil/kc/login/login.asp?kc_ident=kc0005




                                                 66
15.1.2. Category II (CAT-II) Training. CAT II training is primarily hands-on
training as outlined in AFI 10-210, Chapter 4, Attachment 3. Units must make every
effort to incorporate realism into their respective CAT II training programs. Field gear
(to include primary weapons) will be used during training requirements such as,
personal/work party security, convoy operations, defensive fighting positions, etc.

       15.1.2.1. Combat Skills Training (CST). CST must be institutionalized as an
       integral part of any CAT II HST program. Lessons learned from operations
       such as IRAQI FREEDOM have taught us the importance of maintaining a
       higher level of combat readiness. Although the inclusion of combat skills-
       focused training into HST does not fully prepare CE personnel to work in a
       high threat combat environment, the steps taken to enhance CAT II training
       will help elevate units to a readiness level capable of supporting safe and
       effective operations in low to medium risk combat environments.

       15.1.2.2. Mission Essential Equipment Training (MEET). Wartime or
       contingency environments often involve the use of specialized and unique
       mission-essential equipment the Civil Engineers do not use in their day-to-day
       operations. Due to the cost and complexity, mission essential contingency
       equipment and trainer expertise are not commonly found at CONUS
       installations. Personnel must be hands-on certified and the certification
       documented in their CFEPT. AFI 10-210, Tables 4.1- 4.6 identifies minimum
       personnel to be trained, positions by specialty, frequencies and locations of
       training sites. Inadequate training on these key equipment items can
       negatively impact Air Force contingency operations.

15.1.3. Category III (CAT III) Training. Team Training Venues

       15.1.3.1. Silver Flag Exercise Sites (CAT III). Silver Flag Exercise Sites are
       located at Tyndall AFB, FL; Ramstein AB, Germany; and Kadena AB, Japan
       and conduct CAT III training with their major focus on students being able to
       perform critical contingency task in a team environment. The training focuses
       on bare base beddown and sustainment operations using hands-on training
       with BEAR equipment in a realistic beddown environment. Where possible,
       combat skills training has been added to the curriculum to ensure realism and
       help fortify combat skills mentality amongst teams. All CE personnel who fill
       Unit Type Code (UTC) positions will receive team training at Silver Flag
       Exercise Sites with the exception of members on headquarters staff
       augmentation UTCs, pavement evaluation UTCs, and generator repair and
       maintenance UTCs.




                                     67
15.2. Training References.

      15.2.1. AFI 10-210, Prime Base Engineer Emergency Force (BEEF) Program.
      Chapter four of AFI 10-210 identifies the Prime BEEF recurring training requirements.
      You can review this document by going to the Air Force publications web site.
      Attachment 2 is a list of HST CAT-I training requirements and Attachment 3 lists
      CAT-II training requirements.

      15.2.2. Air Force Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA).
      Superseded AFCAT 36-2223. It is located at the following URL:
      https://etca.randolph.af.mil lists additional training/educational opportunities available
      for civil engineer personnel. This catalog contains information on formal education
      and training courses. The catalog is updated quarterly.

      15.2.3. Readiness Training Package (RTP). RTPs are lesson plans for HST lessons.
      The RTPs are intended for those personnel who teach any area of HST. The index and
      RTPs are located on the AFCESA/CEX web page. The URL for this information is
      https://www.my.af.mil.Contingency Training.

      15.2.4. AFCESA/CEX. Maintains a comprehensive listing of audiovisual products that
      support the contingency training program. To view this listing as well as gain
      information on how to order specific audiovisual products, please consult the AFCESA
      Contingency Support page, see URL above.




                                             68
