DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                        CFETP 3S2X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                           Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                          1 October 2010




                                AFSC 3S2X1


                          Education and Training




                CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
                  AND TRAINING PLAN

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing
website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                 CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                    EDUCATION AND TRAINING SPECIALTY
                                 AFSC 3S2X1
                               Table of Contents


PART I


Preface                                                       1

Abbreviations/Terms Explained                                 2

Section A - General Information                               6
Purpose
Uses
Coordination and Approval

Section B - Career Progression and Information                7
Specialty Description
Skill and Career Progression
        Apprentice      (3) Level
        Journeyman      (5) Level
        Craftsman       (7) Level
        Superintendent (9) Level
Training Decisions
Community College of the Air Force (CCAF)
Career Field Path

Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements                 13
Purpose
Specialty Qualification
        Apprentice Level Training
        Journeyman Level Training
        Craftsman Level Training
        Superintendent Level Training

Section D - Resource Constraints                              16

Section E - Transitional Training Guide                       17

OPR: 335TRS/TRR
Certified by: CMSgt Saint J. Carter Jr AFCFM (HQ USAF/A1DL)
Supersedes: CFETP 3S2X1 October 2007
Pages: 45




                                                 i
PART II


Section A - Specialty Training Standard        18


Section B - Course Objective List              41


Section C - Support Materials                  41


Section D - Training Course Index              41


Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements         42




                                          ii
                 EDUCATION AND TRAINING SPECIALTY
                             AFSC 3S2X1
              CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN


Part I


Preface

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education
and training document that identifies life-cycle education and training requirements,
training support resources, and minimum core task requirements for this specialty. The
CFETP will provide personnel a clear career path to success and will instill rigor in all
aspects of career field training. NOTE: Civilians and additional duty training managers
occupying associated positions may use Part II to support duty position qualification
training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts. Supervisors plan, manage, and control training
within the specialty using both parts of the plan.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty.
Section A explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field
progression information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field
path. Section C associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge,
education, experience, training, and other). Section D indicates resource constraints (i.e.
funds, manpower, equipment, facilities). Section E identifies transition training plans for
the 3S2X1 career field.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard
(STS) and includes duties, tasks, technical references to support training. Air Education
and Training Command (AETC) conducted training, core task and correspondence course
requirements. Section B. This area is reserved. Section C identifies available support
materials. Section D identifies a training course index supervisors can use to determine
resources available to support training. Included here are both mandatory and optional
courses. Section E identifies Major Command (MAJCOM) unique training requirements
supervisors can use to determine additional training required for the associated
qualification needs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify,
plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty
receive effective and efficient training at the appropriate points in their career. This plan
will enable us to train today's work force for tomorrow's jobs.




                                              1
                       ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Distributed Learning (ADL) − ADL is an evolution of distributive learning
(distance learning) that emphasizes collaboration on standards-based versions of reusable
objects, networks, and learning management systems, yet may include some legacy
methods and media.

Advanced Training (AT) - Formal course that provides individuals who are qualified in
one or more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills and
knowledge to enhance their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career
airmen at the advanced level of the AFS.

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) − The Air Force focal point for the
designated career field within a functional community. Serves as the primary advocate
for the career field, addressing issues and coordinating functional concerns across various
staffs. Responsible for the career field policy and guidance.

Air Force Automated Education Management System (AFAEMS) - The official
system of record for Air Force Voluntary Education data. Each Education Center uses
AFAEMS to manage military members’ complete education record.

Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD) - The official directory for all
military enlisted classification descriptions, codes, and identifiers. The specialty
descriptions and codes will be used to identify each Air Force job (valid requirements)
and describes the minimum mandatory qualifications of personnel to fill these jobs. The
updated AFECD is available at AF Personnel Center’s web site located at
http://ask.afpc.randolph.af.mil/ under the military classification menu.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS) − A comprehensive task list common
to all persons serving in the duty position, which describes a particular job type or duty
position.

Air Force Specialty (AFS) − A group of positions (with the same title and code) that
require common qualifications.

Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) − A five digit alphanumeric code with potential
prefixes and suffixes added to identify each career field within the Air Force.

Air Reserve Component (ARC) - This term is used as an overarching term when
referring to both the Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Component together.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) - A comprehensive core training
document that identifies: life-cycle education and training requirements; training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for a specialty. The CFETP aims to give
personnel a clear path and instill a sense of industry in career field training. It is the
formal training contract between the AFCFM and AETC for formal accession and life-
cycle skills training.

                                             2
Computer Based Training (CBT) − The use of computers to aid in the delivery and
management of instruction.

Core Task - Tasks the AFCFM identify as minimum qualification requirements for
everyone within an AFSC.

Course Objective List (COL) − A publication derived from initial and advanced skills
course training standard, identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements, and
respective standards provided to achieve a 3- or 7-skill level in this career field.
Supervisors use the COL to assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Programs.

Critical Task - A task that requires specific training and certification above and beyond
other tasks. Tasks may be defined as critical either through AFI, Technical Orders,
higher headquarters, or at any level in the unit.

Deployment Task— Deployment tasks are any tasks identified by higher headquarters
for personnel to perform during deployments, contingencies, or wartime. Deployment
tasks may be specified for a particular skill level or in general across the AFSC. Guidance
for using core tasks can be found in the applicable CFETP narrative.

Distance Learning (DL) − Includes video tele-seminar (VTS), interactive video tele-
training (IVT), video tele-training (VTT), Career Development Courses (CDCs), internet-
based instruction (IBI), and computer based training (CBT). Also includes formal
courses that a training wing or a contractor develops for export to a field location (in
place of resident training) for trainees to complete without on-site support of the formal
school instructor.

Distributed Training – Formal courses that a training wing or a contractor develops for
export to a field location (in place of resident training for trainees to complete without the
on-site support of the formal school instructor).

Duty Position Tasks—Tasks assigned to an individual to be considered qualified for the
position currently held. These include as a minimum all core tasks that correspond to the
duty position as directed by the AFCFM, and tasks assigned by the supervisor.

Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA) - Contains specific
MAJCOM procedures, fund citations, reporting instructions, and listings for those formal
courses conducted or managed by the MAJCOMs or field operating agencies.
https://etca.randolph.af.mil

Functional Manager (FM) − Senior leaders, designated by the appropriate functional
authority (FA) who provide day-to-day management responsibility over specific
functional communities at the MAJCOM, FOA, DRU, or ARC level. While they should
maintain an institutional focus in regards to resource development and distribution, FMs
are responsible for ensuring their specialties are equipped, developed, and sustained to


                                              3
meet the functional community’s mission as well as encourage force development
opportunities in order to meet future needs of the total Air Force mission.

Initial Skills Training—A formal school course that results in an AFSC 3-skill level
award for enlisted or mandatory training for upgrade to qualify officers.

Master Task List (MTL)—A comprehensive list (100%) of all tasks performed within a
work center and consisting of the current CFETP or AFJQS and locally developed AF
Forms 797 (as a minimum). Should include tasks required for deployment and/or Unit
Type Code (UTC) requirements.

Master Training Plan (MTP)—Employs a strategy for ensuring the completion of all
work center job requirements by using a Master task Listing and provides milestones for
task, CDC completion, and prioritizes deployment/UTC, home station training tasks,
upgrade, and qualification tasks.

Occupational Survey Report (OSR) − A detailed report showing the results of an
occupational survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-The-Job Training (OJT) − Hands-on, “over-the-shoulder” training conducted to
certify personnel in both upgrade (skill level award and job qualification) position
certification training.

Qualification Training (QT) − Hands-on performance training designed to qualify
personnel in a specific position. This training occurs both during and after upgrade
training to maintain up-to-date qualifications.

Representative Sites − Typical organizational units having similar missions, weapon
systems or equipment, or a set of jobs, used as a basis for estimating average training
capacities and costs.

Resource Constraints − Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time,
manpower, and equipment that preclude desired training from being delivered.

Specialty Training − The total training process used to qualify airmen in their assigned
specialty.

Specialty Training Requirements Team (STRT) – Forum to determine Education and
Training requirements, by bringing together the expertise to establish the most effective
mix of formal and on-the-job training for each AFS skill level.

Specialty Training Standard (STS) - An Air Force publication (typically inserted as
Part 2 of the CFETP) that describes an Air Force specialty in terms of tasks and
knowledge that an airman in that specialty may be expected to perform or to know on the
job. Also identifies the training provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, or 7-skill level within an
enlisted AFS. It further serves as a contract between AETC and the functional user to
show which of the overall training requirements for an Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC)
are taught in formal schools and correspondence courses.
                                             4
Standard – A predetermined quality or quantity, against which performance skills and
knowledge is measured. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, the
appropriate authority, custom, or common consent sets up and defines to serve as a
reference, model, or rule in measuring quantities or qualities, developing practices or
procedures, or evaluating results. A fixed quantity or quality.

Total Force − All collective Air Force components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian
elements) of the United States Air Force.

Training Capability − The ability of a unit or base to provide training. Authorities
consider the availability of equipment, qualified trainers, and study reference materials in
determining a unit’s training capability.

Training Capacity − The capability of a training setting to provide training on specified
requirements, based on the availability of resources.

Training Planning Team (TPT) − Comprised of subject matter experts (SMEs) who are
intimately involved in training development. The range of issues surpasses those covered
during the Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW).

Training Requirements Analysis − A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFS to
be included in the training decision process.

Type-6 Training − Job Site Training (JST) is formal training developed by a training
wing (TRW) or a TRW contractor to be exported to a field location and designed to be
learned without the on-site support of the formal school instructor. JST can use any
media and must be scheduled, tracked, evaluated, and completion verified before credit is
given to graduates.

Type-7 Training − Special or regular onsite training that Training Detachments (TDs) or
Field Training Teams (FTTs) conduct. These TDs and FTTs consist of AETC instructors
that authorities have temporarily assigned to conduct onsite training at operational units.

Upgrade Training (UGT)—Mandatory training which leads to attainment of a higher
level of proficiency.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) − A forum of the AFCFM, FMs, SMEs
and AETC training personnel to determines career ladder training requirements.

Wartime Course - Comprised of those tasks that must be taught when courses are
accelerated in a wartime environment.

Wartime tasks - Tasks to be taught in the 3-level course when the wartime courses have
been activated. In response to a wartime scenario, these tasks will be taught in the 3-level
course in a streamlined training environment. These tasks are only for those career fields
that still need them applied to their schoolhouse tasks.

                                             5
Section A - General Information

1. Purpose. This CFETP provides the information necessary for Air Force Career Field
Managers (AFCFM), MAJCOM FM, commanders, training managers, supervisors and
trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective and efficient career field
training program. The plan outlines the training that individuals in this AFS should
receive in order to develop and progress throughout their career. This plan identifies
initial skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced and proficiency training. Initial skills
training is the AFS specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force
or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. Normally, this
training is conducted by AETC at one of the technical training centers. Upgrade training
identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, and correspondence
course completion requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, 9-skill level. Qualification
training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an airman in a
specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade
training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills and knowledge required
to do the job. Advanced training is formal specialty training used for selected airmen.
Proficiency training is additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced
training courses, or on-the-job training provided to personnel to increase their skills and
knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP has several
purposes--some are:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field
training program. Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate
point in an individual’s career.

1.2. Identifies task and knowledge requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education and training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.

1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and
the training delivery method.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired
career field training process.

2. Usage. The plan will be used by MAJCOM FMs and supervisors at all levels to
ensure comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in
the specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop or revise formal resident, nonresident, field
and exportable training based upon requirements established by the users and
documented in Part II of the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop
acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified training.



                                              6
2.2. MAJCOM FMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP
mandatory initial, upgrade, and proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training,
contract training, or exportable courses can satisfy identified requirements. MAJCOM-
developed training to support this AFSC must be identified for inclusion into the plan.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this
plan. The lists of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority. Also, the
AFCFM will initiate an annual review of this document to ensure currency and accuracy.
MAJCOM representatives and AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on
the career field training requirements. Using the list of courses in Part II, they will
eliminate duplicate training.


Section B - Career Progression and Information

4. Specialty Description.

4.1. Specialty Summary. Conducts education and training (E&T) tasks for
maintenance, operations, and support training; education services, curriculum
development, and instructor activities. Develops, delivers, and evaluates E&T programs
and oversees E&T activities. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 157000.

4.2. Duties and Responsibilities.

4.2.1. Develops, delivers, and evaluates E&T programs. Applies instructional system
development (ISD) process. Collects and analyzes job performance data, and conducts
occupational analysis surveys. Compares individual knowledge and skills with job
standards, and identifies E&T requirements. Develops and validates standards.
Determines adequacy of existing courses and programs. Screens and validates formal
E&T requirements. Develops objectives to meet Air Force academic, vocational, and
technical standards. Determines most cost-effective method to deliver E&T. Sequences
objectives; selects instructional design, method, and media; and identifies resource needs.
Creates materials to support objectives. Develops test and standards to measure
individual abilities. Evaluates E&T programs, recommends actions to correct
deficiencies, and oversees evaluations and surveys. Conducts, validates, and revises
programs and instruction. Coordinates user feedback with career field managers and
E&T providers, and monitors corrective actions.

4.2.2. Administers E&T programs. Serves as E&T program manager. Consults on ISD
process and career field E&T plans (CFETP). Advises on E&T materials and services.
Conducts work center visits, and organizes programs to develop and conduct job site
training. Advises on unit and individual E&T progress. Identifies E&T providers,
capabilities, and resources, and ensures availability of materials. Recommends revisions
to E&T programs and CFETPs. Helps obtain and analyze history of E&T achievements,
establish goals, and enroll in classes, courses, and programs. Prepares and maintains
records, files, and materials. Maintains liaison with activities conducting, scheduling, or

                                             7
supporting E&T requirements. Coordinates and schedules events and facility use.
Requests course quotas; monitors formal E&T process; and maintains records of course
attendance, withdrawals, completions, and costs. Manages automated systems and
products, measurement tools, multimedia and maintenance qualification training
programs, and the extension course program. Coordinates contingency task training.

4.2.3. Oversees E&T activities. Organizes E&T programs to achieve educational goals
and mission requirements. Prepares directives to manage and control E&T programs.
Implements policies and coordinates changes. Develops and manages reporting
procedures. Maintains E&T data, and provides statistical reports on programs and
operations. Monitors progress, identifies problem areas, determines causes, recommends
corrective action, and provides counsel. Organizes and controls facilities, supplies, and
equipment to support E&T needs. Forecasts E&T requirements, determines validity, and
assesses cost. Participates in Specialty Training Requirements Teams (STRT), utilization
and training workshops, training planning teams, and training planning groups.

5. Skill and Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the
apprentice to the superintendent level play an important role in the Air Force’s ability to
accomplish its mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training must do their
part to plan, manage, and conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided
in this part of the CFETP will ensure each individual receives viable training at
appropriate points in their career.

5.1. Apprentice (3) Level. The initial skills course, E3ALR3S231 0A1A Education and
Training Apprentice, must be completed for the award of AFSC 3S231. Initial skills
training requirements were identified during the 3S2X1 STRT, held 30 November - 4
December 2009.

5.2. Journeyman (5) Level. UGT consists of (1) completing CDC 3S251: (2) all core
tasks identified with a single asterisk “*”; (3) meet time in training requirements as
identified in AFI 36-2201, (4) recommended by supervisor and approval of their
commander for the award of AFSC 3S251. Core tasks identified with “*/R” are optional
for ANG and AFRC.

5.3. Craftsman (7) Level. Begin UGT to the 7-skill level upon selection to SSgt. UGT
consists of completing: (1) all core tasks identified with a number “7”; (2) completion of
the online Force Support Squadron (FSS) Familiarization Course, (3) meet time in
training requirements as identified in AFI 36-2201 (4) recommended by supervisor and
approval of their commander for the award of AFSC 3S271. Core tasks identified with
“7/R” are optional for ANG and AFRC.

5.4. Superintendent (9) Level. Award AFSC 3S291 to SMSgt upon completion of the
FSS Superintendent Course; recommended by supervisor and approval of their
commander.

6. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex)
to encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the 3S2X1 career field.
The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet the training
                                             8
requirements. The strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce duplication of
training and eliminate a disjointed approach to training. The training decisions were
made during the STRT held 30 November - 4 December 2009 and utilizing the ISD
process as implemented by 335TRS/UOB during training planning and course
development.

6.1. 3-Skill Level Training. The initial skills course, E3ALR3S231 0A1A, has been
revised by 335 TRS/UOB at Keesler AFB to provide training needed to prepare graduates
for education and training related positions.

6.2. 5-Skill Level Upgrade Training. The 5-level CDC 3S251 is currently under
revision in an effort to incorporate changes agreed upon during the 3S2X1 STRT in Dec
2009. The revised CDC is scheduled to be released in Dec 2010.

6.3. 7-Skill Level Advanced Training. There is no advanced 7-level course at this
time.

7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). Enrollment in CCAF occurs
automatically upon completion of basic military training and assignment to an Air Force
career field. CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate of Applied Sciences
Degree. Exception: AFSC 3S2X1 personnel must request enrollment into the new
degree program through their Education Service Office. In addition to its associate’s
degree program, CCAF offers the following:

7.1 Certifications

7.1.1. Occupational Instructor Certification. Upon completion of instructor
qualification training, consisting of the instructor methods course and supervised practice
teaching, CCAF instructors who possess an associate’s degree or higher may be
nominated by their school commander and commandant for certification as an
occupational instructor.

7.1.2. CCAF Instructional Systems Design Certification. CCAF offers the
Instructional Systems Development (ISD) Certification for qualified individuals who
develop CCAF courses/curriculum at CCAF affiliated schools. The purpose of the
certification is to recognize the training and education required for individuals to be
qualified to develop and manage CCAF collegiate courses. The certification also
recognizes the individual’s ISD qualification and experience in planning, developing,
implementing, and managing instructional systems. Qualified officer, enlisted, civilian,
and other service curriculum writers/developers are eligible for this certification.

7.2. Degree Requirements. Prior to completing an associate degree, the 5 skill level
must be awarded and the following requirements must be met:




                                             9
                                                                       Semester Hours

Technical Education                                                              24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies                                      6
Physical Education                                                                4
General Education                                                                15
       Oral Communication, Written Communication, Mathematics
       Social Science and Humanities
Program Elective                                                                 15
       Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and Military
        Studies; or General Education
Total                                                                            64

7.2.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of
technical core subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied
from Technical Core or Technical Elective subjects and courses. Specific requirements
can be found in the latest CCAF catalog located at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/.

7.2.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours):
Professional military education and/or civilian management courses.

7.2.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by
completion of Basic Military Training.

7.2.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the
criteria for application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be
in agreement with the definitions of applicable General Education subjects/courses as
provided in the CCAF General Catalog.

7.2.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical
Education; Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects
and courses, including natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Nine
semester hours of CCAF degree applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to
this program may be applied. See the CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the
Associate of Applied Science degree for this specialty.

7.3. Off-duty Education. While additional off-duty education is a personal choice that
is encouraged for all, the 3S2X1 AFCFM strongly advocates it for all Education &
Training Managers. Promotion statistics bear out the weight of college degrees when
competing for promotion to SMSgt and CMSgt. Individuals desiring to become an
AETC Instructor must possess, as a minimum, an associate degree or should be actively
pursuing an associate degree. Special Duty Assignment (SDA) requires an AETC
instructor candidate to have a CCAF degree or be within one year of completion (45
semester hours [SH]). A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through
the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.




                                           10
8. Career Field Path.

8.1. Sample Training Career




                              11
8.2. 3S2X1 Enlisted Career Path.
                                                          GRADE REQUIREMENTS
Education and Training                               Average Earliest High Year of Tenure
Requirements                               Rank      Sew-On  Sew-On   (HYT)
Basic Military Training School
Apprentice Technical School               Amn        6 months
(3-Skill Level)                           A1C        16 months
Upgrade to Journeyman
(5-Skill Level)
- Complete core / duty position           Amn
requirements.                             A1C        16 months     28 months     10 years
- Complete appropriate CDC.               SrA        3 years
- Time in training IAW AFI 36-2201

                                          Trainer
Airman Leadership School                  - Must attend the AF Training Course
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time       - Must be qualified and certified to perform the task to be trained.
in service or be a SSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite   Certifier
for SSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).       Certifiers must be at least a SSgt (E-5) with a 5-skill level or
                                          civilian equivalent, capable
                                          of evaluating the task being certified, and have completed the
                                          AFTC.

Upgrade to Craftsman
(7-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SSgt.
- Complete core / duty position           SSgt       7.5 years     3 years                  20 Years
requirements.
- Complete online FSS Familiarization
Course.
- Time in training IAW AFI 36-2201

Non Commissioned Officer Academy          TSgt       12.5 years    5 years                  22 years
- Must be a MSgt, MSgt Selectee or
TSgt.                                     MSgt       16 years      8 years                  24 years
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite
for MSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).

Upgrade to Superintendent
(9-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SMSgt.                  SMSgt      19.2 years    11 years                 26 years
- Complete FSS Superintendent Course
- Mandatory requirements in
AFECD.
USAF Senior NCO Academy
- Must be a SMSgt or SMSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite
for SMSgt sew-on (Active Duty-Only).
- A percentage of top non-selectee (for
promotion to E-8) MSgts attend the
SNCOA each year.

Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM)              CMSgt      21.5 years      14 years               30 years




                                                     12
Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements

9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this specialty are defined in terms of
tasks and knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification
requirements for each skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory
requirements for entry, award and retention of each skill level. The specific task and
knowledge training requirements are identified in Part II of this CFETP.

10. Specialty Qualification:

10.1. Apprentice Level Training:

10.1.1. Specialty Qualification.

10.1.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: principles, policies, and procedures
of Air Force E&T programs; interviewing and counseling techniques; training techniques
and instruction methods; task analysis procedures, learning process, curriculum
development, training evaluations, and E&T systems and products; effective writing
skills; editing practices; instructional media application, training reporting, program and
curriculum validation, and implementation procedures; training program management;
scheduling training events and facilities; conducting assistance visits and training
meetings; work center and individual job qualification standard development; education
institution registration requirements; military personnel classification system and
policies; application of communicative interpersonal skills; and distance learning
concepts.

10.1.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school is
mandatory. Academic courses in English grammar and composition, speech, psychology,
guidance, and sociology are desirable.

10.1.1.3. Training. Completion of course E3ALR3S231 0A1A, Education and Training
Apprentice, is mandatory for award of the 3-skill level AFSC. Completion of the
following courses is desirable: instructor-training course, technical writing course,
curriculum development course, academic counseling course, instructional system
designer course, and principles of instruction course. Completion of the Instructional
System Designer course is mandatory for personnel performing curriculum designer
functions. Completion of an accredited instructor-training course is mandatory for
individuals assigned to instructor positions.

10.1.1.4. Experience. N/A

10.1.1.5. Other. Prior qualifications in any AFSC at the 5-skill level or higher (3-skill
level, if no 5-skill level exists), (SrA or higher) and the ability to speak clearly and
distinctly, are mandatory for entry into and retention of this specialty. Ability to use
word processing software is desirable. Must have a mandatory General AQE score of 59.
Retraining interviews are mandatory for entry into this career field. The base AFSC
3S2X1 functional manager conducts the interview. (Not applicable to ARC)


                                            13
10.1.2. Training Sources and Resources. Successful completion of course
E3ALR3S231 0A1A, Education and Training Apprentice (PDS Code 472), satisfies the
knowledge and training requirements specified in the specialty qualification section
(above) for award of the 3-skill level.

10.2. Journeyman Level Training:

10.2.1. Specialty Qualification. Enter 5-skill level UGT after completion of the three-
skill level course.

10.2.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: principles, policies, and procedures
of Air Force E&T programs; interviewing and counseling techniques; training techniques
and instruction methods; task analysis procedures, learning process, curriculum
development, training evaluations, and E&T systems and products; effective writing
skills; editing practices; instructional media application, training reporting, program and
curriculum validation, and implementation procedures; training program management;
scheduling training events and facilities; conducting assistance visits and training
meetings; work center and individual job qualification standard development; education
institution registration requirements; military personnel classification system and
policies; application of communicative interpersonal skills; and distance learning
concepts.

10.2.1.2. Education. N/A

10.2.1.3. Training. UGT consists of completing all duty position related core tasks
identified with a single asterisk “*” in the STS located in part II of this CFETP, meet time
in training requirements as identified in AFI 36-2201, recommendation by supervisor and
approval of their commander for the award of AFSC 3S251. Core tasks identified with
“*/R” are optional for ANG and AFRC.

10.2.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3S231. Also,
experience conducting or developing education or training programs, and qualification in
assigned tasks in education services or unit, base, or maintenance training duty positions.

10.2.1.5. Other. N/A

10.2.2. Training Sources and Resources. N/A

10.3. Craftsman Level Training:

10.3.1. Specialty Qualification. All 3S231 and 3S251 qualifications apply to 3S271
requirements.

10.3.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: principles, policies, and procedures
of Air Force E&T programs; interviewing and counseling techniques; training techniques
and instruction methods; task analysis procedures, learning process, curriculum
development, training evaluations, and E&T systems and products; effective writing
skills; editing practices; instructional media application, training reporting, program and
                                            14
curriculum validation, and implementation procedures; training program management;
scheduling training events and facilities; conducting assistance visits and training
meetings; work center and individual job qualification standard development; education
institution registration requirements; military personnel classification system and
policies; application of communicative interpersonal skills; and distance learning
concepts.

10.3.1.2. Education. To assume the grade of SSgt and MSgt individuals must be
graduates of the Airman Leadership School and NCO Academy, respectively (for ARC,
completion of AFIADL Courses 00001 and 00009 satisfy the ALS & NCO Academy
requirement).

10.3.1.3. Training. Completion of the following requirements is mandatory for the
award of the seven-skill level: all duty position related core tasks (identified with a
number “7”),completion of the online Force Support Squadron (FSS) Familiarization
Course , meet time in training requirements as identified in AFI 36-2201, and
recommended by supervisor and approval of their commander for the award of AFSC
3S271. Core tasks identified with “7/R” are optional for ANG and AFRC.

10.3.1.4. Experience. Prior qualification as an Education and Training journeyman is
mandatory.

10.3.1.5. Other. N/A

10.3.2. Training Sources and Resources. Completion of training references listed in
the CFETP Part II satisfies the knowledge requirements specified in the specialty
qualification section for award of the 7-skill level. The CFETP Part II identifies all the
core tasks required for qualification.

10.4. Superintendent Level Training:

10.4.1 Specialty Qualification.

10.4.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge of the following areas is mandatory: education,
maintenance and support training management, functions, and policies; related military
personnel classification policies; instructional system development, management,
operation, and evaluation; wartime and contingency training planning; and test
development, administration, and management.

10.4.1.2. Education. N/A

10.4.1.3. Training. Qualification as an Education and Training craftsman, completion
of the FSS Superintendent Course, and recommended by supervisor and approval of their
commander is mandatory for the award of AFSC 3S291. Also, experience in directing
functions such as education and training programs is mandatory.

10.4.1.4. Experience. Promotion to SMSgt and recommendation by supervisor.


                                             15
10.4.1.5. Other. N/A

10.4.2. Training Sources/Resources. N/A


Section D - Resource Constraints

11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints that preclude optimal
and desired training from being developed or conducted, including information such as
cost and manpower. Resource constraints will be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated
annually.

12. Apprentice Level Training: E3ALR3S231 0A1A, Education and Training
Apprentice Course.

12.1. Constraints. Required lead-time for development of resident training to meet
added and changed training requirements specified in this CFETP.

12.1.1. Impact. Required training will be ready for implementation upon publication of
this CFETP.

12.1.2. Resources Required. Manpower resources are available to complete required
course revisions by the specified target completion date. Command assistance may be
necessary to supplement job experience and subject matter expertise of the assigned
instructor staff.

12.1.3. Action Required. Complete a revision of the 3-level course to meet all training
requirements and proficiency codes identified in this CFETP.

12.2. OPR/Target Completion Date. 335TRS/UOB will implement revised training
with the class beginning 20101004.

13. Journeyman Training: CDC 3S251, Education and Training Manager
Journeyman.

13.1. Constraints. Required lead-time for development of non-resident training to meet
added and changed training requirements specified in this CFETP.

13.1.1. Impact. Required training will not be ready for implementation upon
publication of this CFETP.

13.1.2. Resources Required. Manpower resources are available to complete required
course revisions by the specified target completion date. Command assistance may be
necessary to supplement job experience and subject matter expertise of the assigned
instructor staff.

13.1.3. Action Required. Complete the revision of CDC 3S251 to meet all training
requirements identified in this CFETP.
                                          16
13.2. OPR/Target Completion Date. 335TRS/UOB will revise and publish CDC
3S251, Education and Training Manager Journeyman. The CDC will be available for
order from AU/A4L after 20101201.

14. Craftsman Training: N/A

Section E – Transitional Training Guide The AFCFM’s will meet, discuss and
determine transitional training plans to support merger with the 3S0XX, 3M0XX and
3S3XX career fields. The merger is only at the CEM level.




                                         17
Part II

Section A – Specialty Training Standard (STS)

1. Implementation. The STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC for
the three-skill level Education and Training Apprentice course with the class beginning
20101004 and graduating 20101121. The revised 5-level CDC using the proficiency
codes listed in column 4B is scheduled to be released 1 Dec 2010. Therefore, the 3S2X1
CFETP dated Oct 07 will be used to track duty tasks and their corresponding proficiency
codes covered by the Nov 2008 5-level CDC until the revised CDC is released.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:

2.1. Lists in column 1 the most common tasks, knowledge, and Technical References
(TR) necessary for airman to perform their duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level.

2.2. Identifies, in column 2, core tasks by asterisk, (*) and deployment tasks by a
diamond, (♦), seven skill level identified with a number “7”, and core tasks identified
with “*/R” or “7/R” are optional for ANG and AFRC. Base level 3S2 functional manger
will schedule training for personnel tasked to fill a deployed training position with the
base education office IAW 3S2X1 posturing guidance.

2.3. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and
knowledge training requirements. Use automated training management systems to
document technician qualifications, if available.

2.4. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows
the proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the
task and the career knowledge provided by the corresponding course.

2.5. Attachment 1. Qualitative Requirements. Contains the proficiency code key used to
indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career
development courses.

2.6. Is used to document task completion when placed in the AF Form 623, Individual
Training Record, and used according to AFI 36-2201. CFETP documentation shall be
IAW AFI 36-2201 or any subsequent messages.

2.7. Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman
Promotion System (WAPS). Senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their
career fields develop the Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) at the USAF Occupational
Measurement Squadron. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged
by test development team members as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades.
Questions are based upon study references listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual
responsibilities are in AFI 36-2605, AIR FORCE MILITARY PERSONNEL TESTING
SYSTEM.



                                            18
3. Third Party Certification. Core tasks identified in this CFETP do not require third-
party certification.

4. Recommendations. Comments and recommendations are invited concerning the
quality of AETC training. A Customer Service Information Line (CSIL) has been
installed for the supervisors’ convenience. For a quick response to concerns, call our
CSIL at DSN 597-4566, or fax us at DSN 597-3790, or e-mail us at
81trg-tget@keesler.af.mil. Reference this STS and identify the specific area of concern
(paragraph, training standard element, etc.).


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE



OFFICIAL                                    RICHARD Y. NEWTON III
                                            Lieutenant General, USAF
                                            DCS, Manpower and Personnel



1 Atch
Qualitative Requirements




                                           19
ATTACHMENT 1

                                          THIS BLOCK IS FOR IDENTIFICATION PURPOSES ONLY
                                                                    NAME OF TRAINEE
PRINTED NAME (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                            INITIALS (Written)                          SSAN (last four)


                       PRINTED NAME OF TRAINER, CERTIFYING OFFICIAL AND WRITTEN INITIALS

N/I                                                                                   N/I

N/I                                                                                   N/I

N/I                                                                                   N/I

N/I                                                                                   N/I

N/I                                                                                   N/I

N/I                                                                                   N/I


                                           QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   PROFICIENCY CODE KEY

                                   SCALE             DEFINITION: The individual
                                   VALUE
       TASK                           1              Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (EXTREMELY
   PERFORMANCE                                       LIMITED)
      LEVELS
                                      2              Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (PARTIALLY PROFICIENT)

                                      3              Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (COMPETENT)

                                      4              Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task. (HIGHLY
                                                     PROFICIENT)
      *TASK                           a              Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (NOMENCLATURE)
    KNOWLEDGE
      LEVELS
                                      b              Can determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task. (PROCEDURES)

                                      c              Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed. (OPERATING
                                                     PRINCIPLES)

                                      d              Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (ADVANCED THEORY)
     **SUBJECT                        A              Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (FACTS)
    KNOWLEDGE
       LEVELS
                                      B              Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (PRINCIPLES)

                                      C              Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (ANALYSIS)

                                      D              Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (EVALUATION)

                                                                         EXPLANATIONS

 * A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task. (Examples: b and
1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a subject common to
several tasks.

 - This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

 X This mark is used alone in course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.


 NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code in column 4A are trained during war time.

                                                                         20
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        2.                3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   Tasks                                                                      Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                              Training/Information
                                                                                                                              Provided




                                                Core *

                                                         Deployment
                                                                        A           B         C           D          E          A         B          C

                                                                                                                              3-Skill   5-Skill   7-Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Trg      Trg        Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     I         C          O




                                                         ♦
                                                                       Start   Comp.       Initials    Initials    Initials     S         D          J
                                                                       Date     Date                                            C         C          T
1. EDUCATION AND TRAINING
CAREER FIELD
TR: AFI 36-2101, CFETP 3S2X1, AFECD
1.1. Career Field Structure                                                                                                     B         -          -
1.2. Duties of AFSC 3S2XX                                                                                                       B         -          -
1.3. Progression in Career ladder 3S2XX                                                                                         B         -          -
2. SUPERVISION AND TRAINING
2.1. Supervision
TR: AFPAM 36-2627
2.1.1. Orient newly assigned personnel           7                                                                              -         -          -
2.1.2. Analyze work requirements                 7                                                                              -         -          -
2.1.3. Prioritize work requirements              7                                                                              -         -          -
2.1.4. Establish performance standards           7                                                                              -         -          -
2.1.5. Establish work methods                    7                                                                              -         -          -
2.1.6. Schedule work assignments                 7                                                                              -         -          -
2.1.7. Supervise work activities of personnel    7                                                                              -         -          -
2.1.8. Evaluate individual duty performance      7                                                                              -         -          -
2.1.9. Conduct feedback                          7                                                                              -         -          -
2.1.10. Complete rating forms                    7/
                                                 *                                                                              -         -          -
                                                 R
2.1.11. Analyze manning requirements (i.e.
OCR, ACR, UMD, etc.)                             7                                                                              -         -          -
2.2. 3S2X1 Training
TR: AFI 36-2201, CFETP 3S2X1, AFH 36-
2235 Vol 11
2.2.1. Reviewing mission statements                                                                                             -         A          -
2.2.2. Identifying training requirements                                                                                        -         A          -
2.2.3. Individual Training Needs
2.2.3.1. Evaluate skills/qualifications                                                                                         -         b          -
2.2.3.2. Plan training                                                                                                          -         b          -
2.2.3.3. Recommend personnel for training                                                                                       -         -          -
2.2.4. Develop training objectives                                                                                              -         -          -
2.2.5. Develop evaluation tools                                                                                                 -         -          -
2.2.6. Develop training plans                                                                                                   -         -          -
2.2.7. Select qualified trainers                                                                                                -         -          -
2.2.8. Advise trainees on training programs                                                                                     -         -          -
2.2.9. Monitor effectiveness of
upgrade/qualification training                                                                                                  -         -          -


                                                                               21
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       2.                3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  Tasks                                                                      Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                             Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided




                                               Core *

                                                        Deployment
                                                                       A           B         C           D          E          A         B          C

                                                                                                                             3-Skill   5-Skill   7-Skill
                                                                                                                             Level     Level     Level
                                                                      Trg      Trg        Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     I         C          O




                                                        ♦
                                                                      Start   Comp.       Initials    Initials    Initials     S         D          J
                                                                      Date     Date                                            C         C          T
2.2.10. Maintain training records                                                                                              -         -          -
2.2.11. Participate in graduate evaluation                                                                                     -         -          -
3. TRAINING MANAGEMENT
FUNCTIONS
3.1. Training Feedback System
TR: AFI 36-2201, 3S2X1 CFETP Part I,
AFI 36-2623, AF Occupational Survey
Control Monitor Handbook

3.1.1. Information/guidance                                                                                                    A         B          -
3.1.2. Providing assistance in report
preparation
                                                                                                                               A         B          -
3.1.3. Coordinating external evaluation team
visits
                                                                                                                               A         B          -
3.1.4. Surveys
3.1.4.1. Determine suspense                     *                                                                              b         -          -
3.1.4.2. Notify appropriate personnel           *                                                                              b         -          -
3.1.4.3. Administer surveys                     *                                                                              b         -          -
3.1.4.4. Provide detailed instructions          *                                                                              b         -          -
3.1.4.5. Provide assistance as needed           *                                                                              b         -          -
3.1.4.6. Verify completion of surveys           *                                                                              b         -          -
3.1.4.7. Return surveys                         *                                                                              b         -          -
3.2. Office Automation
TR: Applicable Software Booklets
3.2.1. Perform word processing                  *          ♦                                                                   2b        -          -
3.2.2. Manage data using a spreadsheet          *          ♦                                                                   2b        -          -
3.2.3. Manage Data Using Database
Management Software
3.2.3.1. Training Business Area (TBA)           *                                                                               b        -          -
3.2.3.2. Air Force Training Record (AFTR)       *                                                                               b        -          -
3.2.3.3. MilPDS                                 *                                                                              2b        -          -
3.2.3.4. ADLS                                   *                                                                               b        -          -
3.2.3.5. Other Electronic Databases                                                                                             -        -          -
3.2.4. Use electronic forms software            *          ♦                                                                   2b        -          -
3.2.5. Use graphics presentation software       *          ♦                                                                   2b        -          -
3.3. Education and Training
Documentation Using Automated Sources,
TR: AFI 33-360, AFI 36-2201, AFH 33-337,
AFMAN 33-326
3.3.1. Prepare Memorandums                      *          ♦                                                                   2b        -          -


                                                                              22
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References             2.                3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                        Tasks                                                                      Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                                   Training/Information
                                                                                                                                   Provided




                                                     Core *

                                                              Deployment
                                                                             A           B         C           D          E          A         B          C

                                                                                                                                   3-Skill   5-Skill   7-Skill
                                                                                                                                   Level     Level     Level
                                                                            Trg      Trg        Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     I         C          O




                                                              ♦
                                                                            Start   Comp.       Initials    Initials    Initials     S         D          J
                                                                            Date     Date                                            C         C          T
3.3.2. E-mail                                                                                                                        A         -          -
3.3.3. Prepare staff reports (i.e. talking papers,
staff summary sheets, etc)                            *                                                                              2b        -          -
3.3.4. Prepare checklists                                                                                                            a         -          -
3.3.5. Review education and training forms
for accuracy.                                         *          ♦                                                                   2b        -          -

3.4. Directives
TR: AFH 33-337, AFMAN 33-326
3.4.1. Develop local training directives              7                                                                              b         -          -
3.4.2. Develop supplements                            7                                                                              -         -          -
3.4.3. Manage suspenses                               *                                                                              b         -          -
3.4.4. Providing recommendations to
appropriate OPR for USAF/MAJCOM                       7                                                                              -         B          -
publications
3.4.5. Coordinating on base level publications
and supplements                                       7                                                                              -         B          -
3.5. Education and Training Information,
Libraries and Files
TR: AFI 36-2201, AFI 36-2306, AFI 33-
360, Extension Course Program (A4L)
Catalog, AFSC/CDC Listing, ETCA,
AFRDS On Line
3.5.1. Education/Training Publications via
Electronic/Network Capability
3.5.1.1. Retrieve Air Force, MAJCOM, and
subordinate publications                              *                                                                              a         b          -
3.5.1.2. Retrieve education/training catalogs,
bulletins, publications                               *                                                                              a         b          -
3.5.1.3. Request audio visual materials                          ♦                                                                   a         b          -
3.5.2. Maintaining documentation files                *                                                                              B         -          -
3.5.3. Career Field Education and Training
Plans and Air Force Job Qualification
Standards
3.5.3.1. Retrieve                                     *                                                                              b         -          -
3.5.3.2. Issue                                        *                                                                              b         -          -
3.5.3.3. Maintain                                     *                                                                              b         -          -
3.6. Education and Training Meeting
TR: AFI 36-2201, AFI 33-360
3.6.1. Schedule meeting                               *                                                                               b        b          -
3.6.2. Prepare agenda                                 *                                                                              2b        b          -
3.6.3. Distribute agenda                              *                                                                               b        b          -
3.6.4. Conduct meeting                                *                                                                              2b        b          -


                                                                                    23
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          2.                3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                     Tasks                                                                      Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information
                                                                                                                                Provided




                                                  Core *

                                                           Deployment
                                                                          A           B         C           D          E          A         B          C

                                                                                                                                3-Skill   5-Skill   7-Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                         Trg      Trg        Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     I         C          O




                                                           ♦
                                                                         Start   Comp.       Initials    Initials    Initials     S         D          J
                                                                         Date     Date                                            C         C          T
3.6.5. Prepare minutes                             *                                                                              2b        b          -
3.6.6. Distribute minutes                          *                                                                               b        b          -
3.6.7. Maintaining minutes on file                 *                                                                              B         B          -
3.7. Special, Resident, Maintenance and
Other Training Courses
TR: AFI 36-2201, ETCA, AFI 36-2232,
MAJCOM Mandatory Course Listing
(MMCL)
3.7.1. Reviewing                                   *                                                                              B         -          -
3.7.2. Validating                                  *                                                                              B         -          -
3.7.3. Coordinating                                *                                                                              B         -          -
3.7.4. Data Call
3.7.4.1. Identify training for unit/work center
personnel                                          *                                                                              b         b          -
3.7.4.2. Review applicable publications            *                                                                              b         b          -
3.7.4.3. Reviewing mission statements              *                                                                              B         B          -
3.7.4.4. Identifying training resources            *                                                                              B         B          -
3.7.4.5. Identify training requirements            *                                                                              b         b          -
3.7.4.6. Consolidating requirements                *                                                                              B         B          -
3.7.4.7. Prioritize requirements                   *                                                                              b         b          -
3.7.4.8. Forward to Base Training and
MAJCOM OPRs, per program guidance                  *                                                                              b         -          -
3.7.5. Training Quotas
3.7.5.1. Verify course prerequisite
requirements                                       *                                                                              b         b          -
3.7.5.2. Request Out-of-cycle                      *                                                                              2b        b          -
3.7.5.3. En-route training                                                                                                        A         B          -
3.7.5.4. Special training                                                                                                         B         B          -
3.7.6. Training Allocations
3.7.6.1. Managing training allocation RIPS         *                                                                              B         B          -
3.7.6.2. Confirm                                                                                                                  -         -          -
3.7.6.3. Substitute                                                                                                               -         -          -
3.7.6.4. Cancel                                                                                                                   -         -          -
3.7.6.5. Publish class schedules                                                                                                  b         b          -
3.7.6.6. Manage no-shows                                                                                                          -         -          -
3.7.7. Ancillary Training Program
TR: AFI 36-2201, ADLS
3.7.7.1. Assisting training agencies in
developing ancillary training programs
                                                                                                                                  A         -          -


                                                                                 24
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       2.                3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  Tasks                                                                      Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                             Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided




                                               Core *

                                                        Deployment
                                                                       A           B         C           D          E          A         B          C

                                                                                                                             3-Skill   5-Skill   7-Skill
                                                                                                                             Level     Level     Level
                                                                      Trg      Trg        Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     I         C          O




                                                        ♦
                                                                      Start   Comp.       Initials    Initials    Initials     S         D          J
                                                                      Date     Date                                            C         C          T


3.7.7.2. Reviewing unit ancillary training
procedures, upon request
                                                                                                                               A         -          -
3.7.7.3. Utilize applicable databases                                                                                          b         -          -
3.8. Airmen’s Qualification and Training
Status Actions
TR: AFI 36-2101, AFI 36-2201
3.8.1. Screen newly assigned personnel          *                                                                              2b        -          -
3.8.2. Review personnel training record         *                                                                              2b        -          -
3.8.3. Determine individual training status
code                                            *                                                                              2b        b          -
3.9. Airman AFSC Training Status Actions
TR: AFI 36-2101, AFI 36-2201, AF
Contact Center, MPFMs
3.9.1. Verify upgrade eligibility               *                                                                              2c        -          -
3.9.2. Manage OJT Roster                        *                                                                              2c        -          -
3.9.3. Process AF Form 2096                     *                                                                              2c        -          -
3.9.4. Forwarding IMA upgrade requests to
Base Training Office/BIMAA/HQ RMG                          ♦                                                                   B         -          -
3.9.5. Process waiver package for mandatory
training requirements
                                                                                                                               b         b          -
3.10. Classification Actions for Trainees
Demonstrating Unsatisfactory Progress in
Upgrade/Qualification Training
TR: AFI 36-2101, AFI 36-2201, PSD
Guide-Enlisted AFSC Disqualification
3.10.1. Identifying personnel                   *                                                                              B         -          -
3.10.2. Evaluating adequacy of training         *                                                                              B         B          -
3.10.3. Determining deficiency                  *                                                                              B         B          -
3.10.4. Process source document
        (AF Form 2096)                          *                                                                              2c        c          -
3.10.5. Advising individuals                    *                                                                              B         B          -
3.10.6. Recommending action                     *                                                                              B         B          -
3.10.7. Downgrade skill level                   *                                                                              2b        b          -
3.10.8. Withdraw AFSC                           *                                                                              2b        b          -
3.10.9. Follow-up action                        *                                                                              B         B          -
3.11. Lack of Training Capability/Capacity
TR: AFI 36-2201
3.11.1. Determine                               *                                                                              b         b          -
3.11.2. Validating problem                      *                                                                              B         B          -
3.11.3. Recommend alternate training            *                                                                              b         b          -

                                                                              25
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       2.                3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  Tasks                                                                      Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                             Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided




                                               Core *

                                                        Deployment
                                                                       A           B         C           D          E          A         B          C

                                                                                                                             3-Skill   5-Skill   7-Skill
                                                                                                                             Level     Level     Level
                                                                      Trg      Trg        Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     I         C          O




                                                        ♦
                                                                      Start   Comp.       Initials    Initials    Initials     S         D          J
                                                                      Date     Date                                            C         C          T
methods/resources
3.11.4. Preparing documents                     *                                                                              B         B          -
3.11.5. Forward documents through base and
MAJCOM channels                                  *                                                                             B         B          -
3.12. Career Development Course (CDC)
Program
TR: AFI 36-2101, AFI 36-2201, Extension
Course Program (A4L) Catalog,
AFSC/CDC Listing

3.12.1. Order appropriate CDC                   *          ♦                                                                   2b        b          -
3.12.2. Transaction Registers                                                                                                  B         -          -
3.12.3. Verify CDC enrollment data using
CDSAR                                           *          ♦                                                                   2c        -          -
3.12.4. Conduct CDC Briefing                    *          ♦                                                                   2c        c          -
3.12.5. Issue CDC materials                     *          ♦                                                                   2c        c
3.12.6. Provide guidance on CDC procedures      *          ♦                                                                   b         -          -
3.12.7. Verifying trainee has all materials
before departing (PCA, PCS, TDY)                *                                                                              B         B          -
3.12.8. Analyzing CDC trends                    *                                                                              B         B          -
3.12.9. CDC Management
3.12.9.1. Monitor progression                   *          ♦                                                                    b        b          -
3.12.9.2. Process extension requests            *          ♦                                                                   2b        b          -
3.12.9.3. Process reactivation packages         *          ♦                                                                    b        b          -
3.12.9.4. Process re-enrollment packages        *          ♦                                                                    b        b          -
3.12.9.5. Process cancellation                  *          ♦                                                                   2b        b          -
3.12.9.6. Process enrollment data change        *          ♦                                                                   2b        b          -
3.12.9.7. Request course examination            *          ♦                                                                   2b        b          -
3.12.9.8. Schedule trainee for course exam      *          ♦                                                                    b        b          -
3.12.10. Course Examination Failures

3.12.10.1. Advise appropriate personnel         *          ♦                                                                    b        -          -
3.12.10.2. Identify causes of CDC failure       *          ♦                                                                    b        -          -
3.12.10.3. Process CDC examination failures     *          ♦                                                                   2b        -          -
3.12.10.4. Conduct Interview                    *          ♦                                                                   2b        -          -
3.12.10.5. Recommend corrective actions to
commanders and supervisors                      *          ♦                                                                   b         -          -
3.12.10.6. Analyzing Failure Trends             *                                                                              B         -          -
3.12.10.7. Process CDC Waiver                   *                                                                              2b        b          -


                                                                              26
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          2.                3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                     Tasks                                                                      Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information
                                                                                                                                Provided




                                                  Core *

                                                           Deployment
                                                                          A           B         C           D          E          A         B          C

                                                                                                                                3-Skill   5-Skill   7-Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                         Trg      Trg        Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     I         C          O




                                                           ♦
                                                                         Start   Comp.       Initials    Initials    Initials     S         D          J
                                                                         Date     Date                                            C         C          T
3.12.10.8. Coordinate on separation versus
retention package                                  *                                                                              b         b          -
3.13. Retraining Interviews
TR: AFI 36-2201
                                                   7/
3.13.1. Prepare for interview                      *                                                                              -         a          -
                                                   R
                                                   7/
3.13.2. Conduct the interview                      *                                                                              -         a          -
                                                   R
                                                   7/
3.13.3. Prepare written comments and
recommendations
                                                   *                                                                              -         a          -
                                                   R
3.14. UTM Trainee Orientation
TR: AFI 36-2201 ATCH 10
3.14.1. Conduct                                    *                                                                              2b        -          -
3.14.2. Document                                   *                                                                              2b        -          -
3.15. Education and Training Equipment
TR: AFMAN 23-110, Manufacturer’s
Manual
3.15.1. Obtain                                                                                                                    -         -          -
3.15.2. Set up                                                                                                                    -         -          -
3.15.3. Operate                                                                                                                   -         -          -
3.15.4. Coordinate use of instructional
equipment and aids
                                                                                                                                  -         -          -
3.16. Schedule classrooms                                                                                                         -         -          -
3.17. Testing Programs
TR: AFI 36-2605, DANTES Catalog,
Extension Course Program (A4L) Catalog
3.17.1. Order test material                                   ♦                                                                   b         -          -
3.17.2. Receive test material                                 ♦                                                                   b         -          -
3.17.3. Secure test material                                  ♦                                                                   b         -          -
3.17.4. Schedule tests                                        ♦                                                                   b         -          -
3.17.5. Maintain test facility                                ♦                                                                   b         -          -
3.17.6. Administer test                                       ♦                                                                   b         -          -
3.17.7. Destroy test material                                 ♦                                                                   b         -          -
3.17.8. Return test material                                  ♦                                                                   b         -          -
3.17.9. Maintain test inventory                               ♦                                                                   b         -          -
3.18. CDC Exam Test Control Facility
TR: AFI 36-2201, Extension Course
Program (A4L) Catalog and Price Listing

3.18.1. Establish test control office ZIP shred                                                                                   a         -          -


                                                                                 27
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       2.                3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  Tasks                                                                      Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                             Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided




                                               Core *

                                                        Deployment
                                                                       A           B         C           D          E          A         B          C

                                                                                                                             3-Skill   5-Skill   7-Skill
                                                                                                                             Level     Level     Level
                                                                      Trg      Trg        Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     I         C          O




                                                        ♦
                                                                      Start   Comp.       Initials    Initials    Initials     S         D          J
                                                                      Date     Date                                            C         C          T
3.18.2. Maintain test control log                          ♦                                                                   b         -          -
3.18.3. Log receipt of CDC examinations                    ♦                                                                   b         -          -
3.18.4. Secure CDC examinations                            ♦                                                                   b         -          -
3.18.5. Schedule course examinations                       ♦                                                                   b         -          -
3.18.6. Maintain test facility                             ♦                                                                   b         -          -
3.18.7. Administer Course Examinations
3.18.7.1. Paper Based                                      ♦                                                                   b         -          -
3.18.7.2. Electronic                                       ♦                                                                   b         -          -
3.18.8. Process answer sheets                              ♦                                                                   b         -          -
3.18.9. Receive test results                               ♦                                                                   b         -          -
3.18.10. Forward test results                              ♦                                                                   b         -          -
3.18.11. Forward CDC exams to gaining test
office                                                     ♦                                                                   b         -          -
3.18.12. Report CDC exam compromises                       ♦                                                                   c         -          -
3.19. DANTES Test Administration
TR: AFI 36-2306, DANTES Examination
Program Handbook (DEPH) Vol I & II
3.19.1. Complying with testing guidelines                  ♦                                                                   A         -          -
3.19.2. Maintaining test administration
documentation                                              ♦                                                                   A         -          -
3.19.3. Testing Programs (CLEP, DSSTS,
etc.)
TR: DANTES Examination Program
Handbook (DEPH) Vol I & II
3.19.3.1. Annual DANTES facility inspection                ♦                                                                   A         -          -
3.19.3.2. Test compromise                                  ♦                                                                   A         -          -
3.20. Resource Management
TR: AFI 36-2306, AFI 65-601 VOL II,
AFI 36-2201
3.20.1. Review manpower and personnel
requirements                                    7                                                                              -         B          -
3.20.2. Budget Resources (Equipment,
supplies, facilities, requirements)
                                                */
3.20.2.1. Forecasting                           *                                                                              B         B          -
                                                R
                                                */
3.20.2.2. Executing                             *                                                                              B         B          -
                                                R
3.21. Training Events
TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2201, ETCA,
AFCSM 21-570 Vol II, AFI 36-2232
3.21.1. Create training schedule                                                                                               2b        -          -


                                                                              28
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       2.                3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  Tasks                                                                      Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                             Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided




                                               Core *

                                                        Deployment
                                                                       A           B         C           D          E          A         B          C

                                                                                                                             3-Skill   5-Skill   7-Skill
                                                                                                                             Level     Level     Level
                                                                      Trg      Trg        Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     I         C          O




                                                        ♦
                                                                      Start   Comp.       Initials    Initials    Initials     S         D          J
                                                                      Date     Date                                            C         C          T
3.21.2. Load training events                                                                                                   2b        -          -
3.21.3. Schedule personnel                                                                                                     2b        -          -
3.21.4. Publish schedules                                                                                                      2b        -          -
3.21.5. Deviations
3.21.5.1. Identifying                                                                                                          A         -          -
3.21.5.2. Tracking                                                                                                             A         -          -
3.21.6. Completions
3.21.6.1. Delete no shows                                                                                                      2b        -          -
3.21.6.2. Delete event                                                                                                         2b        -          -
3.22. Status of Training Briefing
TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2201, AFCSM 21-
570 Vol II, AFI 36-2232
3.22.1. Compile statistical data                *                                                                              2b        b          -
3.22.2. Prepare statistical data summary        *                                                                              2b        b          -
3.22.3. Developing visual aids                  *                                                                              B         B          -
3.22.4. Brief appropriate officials             *                                                                              2b        -          -
3.22.5. Providing to appropriate officials      *                                                                              B         -          -
3.23. Training Evaluation Program
TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2201, AFH 36-
2235 Vol 11
3.23.1. Materials                                                                                                              A         B          -
3.23.2. Administer                                                                                                             b         b          -
3.23.3. Reviewing results                                                                                                      B         B          -
3.23.4. Disposal of materials                                                                                                  A         B          -
3.23.5. Instructional system reviews (ISR)                                                                                     A         B          -
4. WORKCENTER ISD
4.1. Assist in Development of Unit/
Individual Training Programs
TR: AFI 36-2201, AFM 36-2234, AFMAN
36-2236, AFH 36-2235 Vol 11, CFETP
AFECD, AFOCD
4.1.1. Work Center/Duty Position
Requirements
4.1.1.1. Consulting with subject matter
experts
                                                                                                                               B         B          -
4.1.1.2. Identify day-to-day work
requirements                                    *          ♦                                                                   2b        b          -
4.1.1.3. Researching applicable directives                                                                                     B         B          -
4.1.1.4. Relating mission statements to
training requirements
                                                                                                                               B         B          -


                                                                              29
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References         2.                3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                    Tasks                                                                      Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information
                                                                                                                               Provided




                                                 Core *

                                                          Deployment
                                                                         A           B         C           D          E          A         B          C

                                                                                                                               3-Skill   5-Skill   7-Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Trg      Trg        Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     I         C          O




                                                          ♦
                                                                        Start   Comp.       Initials    Initials    Initials     S         D          J
                                                                        Date     Date                                            C         C          T
4.1.1.5. Developing questionnaires to assess
requirements
                                                                                                                                 A         B          -
4.1.1.6. Reviewing past production records                                                                                       B         B          -
4.1.1.7. Review applicable training standards
(i.e. CFETP, AFJQS, etc)                          *                                                                              2b        b          -
4.1.1.8. Identify mandatory AFSC
requirements (i.e. core tasks)                    *                                                                              b         b          -
4.1.1.9. Determine training capability            *                                                                              2b        b          -
4.1.1.10. Identify recurring training
requirements                                      *          ♦                                                                   2b        b          -
4.1.1.11. Reviewing manning documents             *                                                                              B         B          -
4.1.1.12. Reviewing evaluation and
inspection reports
                                                                                                                                 B         B          -
4.1.1.13. Identifying deployment tasks                                                                                           A         B          -
4.1.2. Work Center/Individual
Requirements
TR: AFI 36-2201, CFETP, AFH 36-2235
Vol 11
4.1.2.1. Review training standards to support
the mission (MTL, MTP, AF Form797 etc)            *                                                                              2b        b          -
4.1.2.2. Compare skills/qualifications to duty
position requirements                             *                                                                              2b        b          -
4.1.2.3. Review CFETP/AFJQS to identify
training needs                                    *                                                                              2b        b          -
4.1.2.4. Identifying personnel gains/losses       *                                                                              B         B          -
4.1.2.5. Identifying the need for job rotation                                                                                   A         B          -
4.1.2.6. Training Record
4.1.2.6.1. Determine applicable documents         *                                                                              2b        b          -
4.1.2.6.2. Provide documentation guidance         *          ♦                                                                   2b        -          -
4.1.2.7. Training Capacity
4.1.2.7.1. Assisting supervisors in selecting
trainers                                          *          ♦                                                                   B         -          -
4.1.2.7.2. Assisting in selecting task
certifiers                                        *          ♦                                                                   B         -          -
4.1.3. Training Objectives and
Measurement Devices
4.1.3.1. Identify job and task performance
requirements                                      *                                                                              b         b          -
4.1.3.2. Develop objectives                       *                                                                              2b        b          -
4.1.3.3. Develop Measurement Devices
4.1.3.3.1. Written/oral examinations                                                                                             2b        b          -
4.1.3.3.2. Checklist                                                                                                             2b        b          -


                                                                                30
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          2.                3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                     Tasks                                                                      Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information
                                                                                                                                Provided




                                                  Core *

                                                           Deployment
                                                                          A           B         C           D          E          A         B          C

                                                                                                                                3-Skill   5-Skill   7-Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                         Trg      Trg        Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     I         C          O




                                                           ♦
                                                                         Start   Comp.       Initials    Initials    Initials     S         D          J
                                                                         Date     Date                                            C         C          T
4.1.4. Work Center Training Priorities
4.1.4.1. Prioritizing training
                                                                                                                                  B         -          -
4.1.4.2. Planning concurrent knowledge
training
                                                                                                                                  B         -          -
4.1.4.3. Training Methods
4.1.4.3.1. Lecture                                                                                                                A         -          -
4.1.4.3.2. Coach/pupil                                                                                                            A         -          -
4.1.4.3.3. Demonstration/performance                                                                                              A         -          -
4.1.4.3.4. Computer assisted                                                                                                      A         -          -
4.1.4.3.5. Qualification training package
(QTP)
                                                                                                                                  A         -          -
4.1.4.4. Training Media
4.1.4.4.1. Develop lesson plans (LPs)                                                                                             2b        b          -
4.1.4.4.2. Develop task breakdowns                                                                                                2b        b          -
4.1.4.4.3. Determine equipment needs                                                                                               b        b          -
4.1.4.4.4. Develop teaching aids                                                                                                  2b        b          -
4.1.4.5. Scheduling training                                                                                                      B         B          -
4.1.4.6. Validate Instruction
4.1.4.6.1. Determining whether training
materials meet needs
                                                                                                                                  A         B          -
4.1.4.6.2. Revising plans and materials as
needed
                                                                                                                                  A         B          -
4.1.5. Conduct Training Session
4.1.5.1. Demonstration/Performance                                                                                                2b        -          -
4.1.5.2. Lecture                                                                                                                  2b        -          -
4.1.6. Work Center Training
4.1.6.1. Assess task evaluation process            *                                                                              b         b          -
4.1.6.2. Review work center training program       *                                                                              -         -          -
4.1.7. Training Plans
4.1.7.1. Develop a master task listing             *                                                                              2b        -          -
4.1.7.2. Develop a master training plan            *                                                                              2b        -          -
4.1.7.3. Develop training devices (i.e. charts,
forms, etc. as required)                           *                                                                              b         -          -
4.2. Training Sources
TR: AFI 36-2201, AFI 36-2232, AFI 36-
2306, ETCA, Distance Learning Catalog,
Distance Learning Guide, Extension Course
Program (A4L) Catalog, AFI 36-2230 If,
CAFMMCL, MAFMMCL


                                                                                 31
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        2.                3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   Tasks                                                                      Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                              Training/Information
                                                                                                                              Provided




                                                Core *

                                                         Deployment
                                                                        A           B         C           D          E          A         B          C

                                                                                                                              3-Skill   5-Skill   7-Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Trg      Trg        Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     I         C          O




                                                         ♦
                                                                       Start   Comp.       Initials    Initials    Initials     S         D          J
                                                                       Date     Date                                            C         C          T
4.2.1. Identify ETCA resident/nonresident
courses
                                                                                                                                2b        -          -
4.2.2. AU courses                                                                                                               B         -          -
4.2.3. DOD courses                                                                                                              B         -          -
4.2.4. MAJCOM/Locally developed courses                                                                                         B         -          -
4.2.5. Civilian contracted courses                                                                                              B         -          -
4.2.6. High school, university, trade school                                                                                    B         -          -
4.3. Education/Training Trend Data
TR: AFI 36-2201, OMS Data Report
4.3.1. Statistics
4.3.1.1. Reviewing                               *                                                                              B         B          -
4.3.1.2. Compiling                               *                                                                              B         B          -
4.3.2. Cross-tell Reports
4.3.2.1. Reviewing                               *                                                                              B         B          -
4.3.2.2. Compiling                               *                                                                              B         B          -
4.3.3. Advising key personnel of training
program status                                   *                                                                              B         B          -
4.3.4. Recommending corrective actions           *                                                                              B         B          -
5. UNIT/WORK CENTER ASSISTANCE
VISITS
TR: AFI 36-2201, AFI 36-2306
5.1. Schedule                                    *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2. Pre-visit Preparation
5.2.1. Reviewing Publications                    *                                                                              B         B          -
5.2.2. Reviewing mission statements              *                                                                              B         B          -
5.2.3. Reviewing policy letters                  *                                                                              B         B          -
5.2.4. Reviewing wartime requirements            *                                                                              B         B          -
5.2.5. Reviewing statistics                      *                                                                              B         B          -
5.3. In-briefing
5.3.1. Interviewing personnel associated with
training                                         *                                                                              B         B          -
5.3.2. Determining training capacity             *                                                                              B         B          -
5.3.3. Assessing quality of work center
training methods and techniques                  *                                                                              B         B          -
5.3.4. Reviewing management procedures           *                                                                              B         B          -
5.3.5. Reviewing experience levels               *                                                                              B         B          -
5.3.6. Reviewing planning procedures             *                                                                              B         B          -
5.3.7. Reviewing projected training needs.       *                                                                              B         B          -


                                                                               32
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       2.                3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  Tasks                                                                      Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                             Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided




                                               Core *

                                                        Deployment
                                                                       A           B         C           D          E          A         B          C

                                                                                                                             3-Skill   5-Skill   7-Skill
                                                                                                                             Level     Level     Level
                                                                      Trg      Trg        Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     I         C          O




                                                        ♦
                                                                      Start   Comp.       Initials    Initials    Initials     S         D          J
                                                                      Date     Date                                            C         C          T
5.3.8. Reviewing evaluation procedures          *                                                                              B         B          -
5.3.9. Reviewing work standards versus
requirements                                    *                                                                              B         B          -
5.3.10. Reviewing communication channels        *                                                                              B         B          -
5.3.11. Reviewing compliance work center
rules                                           *                                                                              B         B          -
5.3.12. Reviewing safety discipline             *                                                                              B         B          -
5.4. Conduct Staff Assistance Visit (SAV)       *                                                                              2b        b
5.5. Conduct Out Brief                          *                                                                              2b        b          -
5.6. Prepare report                             *                                                                              2b        b          -
5.7. Distributing report                        *                                                                              B         B          -
5.8. Follow-up visit                            *                                                                              B         B          -
6. CONDUCT INFORMAL WORK
CENTER VISIT                                    *                                                                              b         -          -
TR: AFI 36-2201
7. INSTRUCT AIR FORCE TRAINING                                                                                                                      -
COURSE                                          *                                                                              2b       B
TR: AFI 36-2201, AFMAN 36-2236
8. BASE TRAINING FUNCTIONS
TR: AFI 36-2201
8.1. Base 3S2 Functional Manager
TR: AFPD 10-4, AFI 10-416, AFI 10-401
                                                7/
8.1.1. AEF Concepts                             *                                                                              -         -          -
                                                R
                                                7/
8.1.2. UTC Posturing                            *                                                                              -         -          -
                                                R
                                                7/
8.1.3. UTC Coding                               *                                                                              -         -          -
                                                R
                                                7/
8.1.4. Update AEF Association                   *                                                                              -         -          -
                                                R
                                                7/
8.1.5 Readiness Terminology                     *                                                                              -         -          -
                                                R
                                                7/
8.1.6. Local CONOPS                             *                                                                              -         -          -
                                                R
8.1.7. Managing 3S2 Manpower
                                                7/
8.1.7.1. Developing Rotational Plans            *                                                                              -         -          -
                                                R
                                                7/
8.1.7.2. Develop OCR/ACR Submissions            *                                                                              -         -          -
                                                R


                                                                              33
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References         2.                3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                    Tasks                                                                      Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information
                                                                                                                               Provided




                                                 Core *

                                                          Deployment
                                                                         A           B         C           D          E          A         B          C

                                                                                                                               3-Skill   5-Skill   7-Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Trg      Trg        Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     I         C          O




                                                          ♦
                                                                        Start   Comp.       Initials    Initials    Initials     S         D          J
                                                                        Date     Date                                            C         C          T
8.1.8. Manage 3S2/Additional Duty UTM
Training                                          7                                                                              -         -          -
8.2. Base Training Manager
8.2.1. Base OJT Policy and Procedures                                                                                            A         -          -
8.2.2. Coordinating training support across
the base and with higher headquarters (MOA,                                                                                      B         B          -
MOU)
8.2.3. Coordinating qualified trainer and
certifier requirements between units
                                                                                                                                 B         B          -
8.2.4. Elevating unresolved issues to
installation commander or MAJCOM                                                                                                 B         B          -
Education and Training manager
8.2.5. Coordinating policy and program
changes
                                                                                                                                 B         B          -
8.2.6. Developing training policy                                                                                                B         B          -
8.2.7. Assisting UTMs in establishing training
programs
                                                                                                                                 B         B          -
8.2.8. Providing feedback to MAJCOM
Education and Training manager
                                                                                                                                 B         B          -
9. EDUCATION SERVICES FUNCTIONS
TR: AFI 36-2107, AFI 36-2306, AFI 36-
2608, AFAEMS
9.1. Customer Service                                        ♦                                                                   -         -          -
9.2. Individual Educational Services Record
9.2.1. Initiate Educational Record                           ♦                                                                   a         a          -
9.2.2. Process incoming and outgoing
personnel
                                                                                                                                 a         a          -
9.3. Resource Management
9.3.1. Tuition Assistance                                                                                                        -         A          -
9.3.2. Invoice for payment                                                                                                       -         A          -
9.3.3. TA Resolution
9.3.3.1. Reimbursement                                                                                                           -         A          -
9.3.3.2. Recoupment                                                                                                              -         A          -
9.3.3.3. Waivers                                                                                                                 -         A          -
9.3.4. Instructional and non-instructional
programs/non-personal service contracts                                                                                          -         A          -
(NPSC)
9.4. Education Services Program
TR: AFI 36-2306

9.4.1. Educational Needs Assessment
Survey



                                                                                34
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          2.                3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                     Tasks                                                                      Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information
                                                                                                                                Provided




                                                  Core *

                                                           Deployment
                                                                          A           B         C           D          E          A         B          C

                                                                                                                                3-Skill   5-Skill   7-Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                         Trg      Trg        Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     I         C          O




                                                           ♦
                                                                         Start   Comp.       Initials    Initials    Initials     S         D          J
                                                                         Date     Date                                            C         C          T
9.4.1.1. Develop                                                                                                                  -         -          -
9.4.1.2. Conduct                                                                                                                  -         -          -
9.4.1.3. Interpret data                                                                                                           -         -          -
9.4.2. Develop Education Services Program
and Publicity
                                                                                                                                  -         -          -
9.5. Assisting and Advising Personnel on
Education Services Program
TR: AFI 36-2302, AFI 36-2305, AFI 36-
2306, American Council on Education
Guide to the Evaluation of Educational
Experience in the Armed Services (ACE
Guide), Handbook to the ACE Guide,
CCAF General Catalog, CCAF Counselors
Handbook, Service Members Opportunity
Colleges (SOC) Guide, DANTES,
Independent Study Catalog, DANTES
External Degree Program
9.5.1. Educational leave of absence                           ♦                                                                   -         B          -
9.5.2. Education deferments                                   ♦                                                                   -         B          -
9.5.3. Service Members Opportunity Colleges
(SOC)                                                         ♦                                                                   -         B          -
9.5.4. On and off base degree programs                        ♦                                                                   -         -          -
9.5.5. Correspondence, independent study,
external programs                                             ♦                                                                   -         B          -
9.5.6. Financial aid                                          ♦                                                                   -         B          -
9.5.7. CCAF
TR: AFI 36-2304, CCAF General Catalog,
CCAF Advisors Handbook, CCAF Update,
CCAF Addendum
9.5.7.1. Using CCAF Catalog                                   ♦                                                                   A         B          -
9.5.7.2. Using CCAF Update (quarterly
bulletin)                                                     ♦                                                                   A         -          -
9.5.7.3. Using CCAF Advisors Handbook                         ♦                                                                   A         B          -
9.5.7.4. Interpreting CCAF progress reports                   ♦                                                                   A         B          -
9.5.7.5. Interpreting Transcripts                             ♦                                                                   A         -          -
9.5.7.6. Updating academic education levels                                                                                       A         -          -
9.5.7.7. Obtaining credit for military schools/
experience/training
                                                                                                                                  A         -          -
9.5.7.8. Evaluate individual background                                                                                           -         -          -
9.5.7.9. Record interviews and results                        ♦                                                                   -         -          -
(AFAEMS)
9.5.7.10. Initiate CCAF Action Request                        ♦                                                                   -         -          -


                                                                                 35
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       2.                3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  Tasks                                                                      Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                             Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided




                                               Core *

                                                        Deployment
                                                                       A           B         C           D          E          A         B          C

                                                                                                                             3-Skill   5-Skill   7-Skill
                                                                                                                             Level     Level     Level
                                                                      Trg      Trg        Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     I         C          O




                                                        ♦
                                                                      Start   Comp.       Initials    Initials    Initials     S         D          J
                                                                      Date     Date                                            C         C          T
9.5.8. Air Force Institute of Technology                   ♦
(AFIT) Programs
TR: ETCA, AFAEMS, AFI 36-2005, AFI 36-
                                                                                                                               A         B          -
2013
9.5.9. Voluntary Programs
TR: AFI 36-2201, AFI 36-2301, Extension
Course Program (A4L) Catalog, Air
University Catalog, AFAEMS
9.5.9.1. Career Development Courses (CDC)
and Specialized Courses (SC)                               ♦                                                                   B         -          -
9.5.9.2. PME courses                                       ♦                                                                   B         -          -
9.5.9.3. Commissioning Programs (AECP,
AFROTC, AFA, OTS, LEAD, SOAR, etc.)                        ♦                                                                   B         -          -
9.5.10. Department of Veterans Affairs
Programs
TR: AFI 36-2306, Certification of Students
Under Veterans’ Laws, VA Circulars
9.5.10.1. VA educational programs                          ♦                                                                   A         -          -
9.5.10.2. Preparation of certification forms                                                                                   B         -          -
9.6. Manage the Distance Learning/
Instructional Program
TR: AFI 36-2201 Vol 4, AFH 36-2235 V5,
AETCI 36-2208, AETCI 36-2209
9.6.1. Notify all units to forecast required
courses
                                                                                                                               a         a          -
9.6.2. Announce upcoming courses or
broadcasts
                                                                                                                               a         a          -
9.6.3. Maintain site schedule                                                                                                  a         a          -
9.6.4. Coordinate with Technical Site
Coordinator
                                                                                                                               a         a
9.6.5. Ensure confirmation of course
registration
                                                                                                                               a         a          -
9.6.6. Process course materials                                                                                                a         a          -
9.6.7. Prepare classroom                                                                                                       a         a          -
9.6.8. Provide system orientation                                                                                              a         a          -
9.6.9. Manage broadcast                                                                                                        a         a          -
9.6.10. Submit applicable documentation                                                                                        a         a          -
9.6.11. Administer course measurements                                                                                         a         a          -
9.6.12. Satellite Broadcasts
9.6.12.1. Establish Downlink (JST POC)                                                                                         a         a          -
9.6.12.2. Establish Uplink (Broadcast site)                                                                                    a         a          -
9.6.12.3. Obtain course materials/equipment                                                                                    -         a          -
9.6.12.4. Ensure material currency                                                                                             -         a          -

                                                                              36
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        2.                3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   Tasks                                                                      Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                              Training/Information
                                                                                                                              Provided




                                                Core *

                                                         Deployment
                                                                        A           B         C           D          E          A         B          C

                                                                                                                              3-Skill   5-Skill   7-Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Trg      Trg        Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     I         C          O




                                                         ♦
                                                                       Start   Comp.       Initials    Initials    Initials     S         D          J
                                                                       Date     Date                                            C         C          T
9.6.12.5. Ensure serviceability of training
aids/equipment
                                                                                                                                -         a          -
9.6.12.6. Inform units of available programs                                                                                    -         a          -
9.6.12.7. Schedule training sessions                                                                                            -         a          -
9.6.12.8. Distribute certificates                                                                                               a         a          -
9.6.12.9. Provide ADL updates via training
program
                                                                                                                                -         a          -
10. INSTRUCTIONAL SYSTEM
DEVELOPMENT (ISD)
TR: AFMAN 36-2234, AFH 36-2235 Series,
AFPD 36-22
10.1. ISD Process
10.1.1. Total instructional system                                                                                              B         -          -
10.1.2. Quality improvement                                                                                                     B         -          -
10.2. Learning Theory
10.2.1. Theoretical approaches                                                                                                  B         -          -
10.2.2. Applying theory to the learning
situation
                                                                                                                                B         -          -
10.3. Instructional Planning
10.3.1. Conduct needs assessment                                                                                                -         -          -
10.3.2. Develop instructional system concepts                                                                                   -         -          -
10.3.3. Develop ISD management plan                                                                                             -         -          -
10.3.4. Develop ISD evaluation plan                                                                                             -         -          -
10.4. Analysis Phase
10.4.1. Conduct occupational/
educational/mission analysis
                                                                                                                                -         -          -
10.4.2. Conduct task analysis                                                                                                   -         -          -
10.4.3. Conduct learning analysis                                                                                               -         -          -
10.4.4. Perform resource analysis                                                                                               -         -          -
10.4.5. Conduct target audience analysis                                                                                        -         -          -
10.5. Design Phase
10.5.1. Develop objectives                                                                                                      -         -          -
10.5.2. Prioritize, cluster, and sequence
objectives
                                                                                                                                -         -          -
10.5.3. Develop tests                                                                                                           -         -          -
10.5.4. Review existing materials                                                                                               -         -          -
10.5.5. Design Instructional Plan
10.5.5.1. Select instructional method                                                                                           -         -          -
10.5.5.2. Select media                                                                                                          -         -          -

                                                                               37
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           2.                3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                      Tasks                                                                      Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information
                                                                                                                                 Provided




                                                   Core *

                                                            Deployment
                                                                           A           B         C           D          E          A         B          C

                                                                                                                                 3-Skill   5-Skill   7-Skill
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level     Level
                                                                          Trg      Trg        Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     I         C          O




                                                            ♦
                                                                          Start   Comp.       Initials    Initials    Initials     S         D          J
                                                                          Date     Date                                            C         C          T
10.5.5.3. Select media for integrated activities                                                                                   -         -          -
10.5.5.4. Determine instructional strategies                                                                                       -         -          -
10.5.5.5. Design instructional activities                                                                                          -         -          -
10.5.6. Develop implementation plan                                                                                                -         -          -
10.6. Development Phase
10.6.1. Prepare plan of instruction                                                                                                -         -          -
10.6.2. Produce instructional materials                                                                                            -         -          -
10.6.3. Validate Instruction
10.6.3.1. Develop validation plan                                                                                                  -         -          -
10.6.3.2. Conduct internal reviews                                                                                                 -         -          -
10.6.3.3. Conduct tryouts                                                                                                          -         -          -
10.6.4. Finalize instructional materials                                                                                           -         -          -
10.7. Implementation Phase
10.7.1. Implement system functions                                                                                                 -         -          -
10.7.2. Conduct instruction                                                                                                        -         -          -
10.8. Evaluation
10.8.1. Perform formative evaluation                                                                                               -         -          -
10.8.2. Perform summative evaluation                                                                                               -         -          -
10.8.3. Perform operational evaluation                                                                                             -         -          -
11. MAJOR COMMAND (MAJCOM)
EDUCATION AND TRAINING
TR: AFI 36-2201, AFI 36-2306, PSD
Guide, AFMAN 36-2234, AFH 36-2235 Vol
11, AFI 90-201, AFPD 10-4, AFI 10-401
11.1. Coordinating on MAJCOM formal
training requirements
                                                                                                                                   A         -          -
11.2. MAJCOM Education and Training
policy
                                                                                                                                   -         -          -
11.3. MAJCOM focal point for training issues                                                                                       A         -          -
11.4. Advise base and MAJCOM Functional
Managers
                                                                                                                                   -         -          -
11.5. Identifying resources                                                                                                        A         -          -
11.6. Coordinating training for supported
MAJCOM functional managers and providers
                                                                                                                                   -         -          -
11.7. MAJCOM Training Manager
11.7.1. Coordinate Base Training Feedback                                                                                          -         -          -
11.7.1.1. Notifying MAJCOM Functional
Managers
                                                                                                                                   A         -          -
11.7.1.2. Notifying training providers
                                                                                                                                   A         A          -

                                                                                  38
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        2.                3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   Tasks                                                                      Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                              Training/Information
                                                                                                                              Provided




                                                Core *

                                                         Deployment
                                                                        A           B         C           D          E          A         B          C

                                                                                                                              3-Skill   5-Skill   7-Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Trg      Trg        Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     I         C          O




                                                         ♦
                                                                       Start   Comp.       Initials    Initials    Initials     S         D          J
                                                                       Date     Date                                            C         C          T
11.7.1.3. Monitoring corrective actions
                                                                                                                                A         A          -
11.7.2. Manage the MAJCOM OJT program                                                                                           -         -          -
11.7.3. Establishing quality control measures
for base training programs
                                                                                                                                -         A          -
11..7.4. Serve as the MAJCOM focal point
for external training evaluations
                                                                                                                                -         -          -
11.7.5. Assisting MAJCOM inspection and
evaluation activities
                                                                                                                                -         A          -
11.7.6. AEF Concepts                                                                                                            -         -          -
11.7.7. UTC Posturing                                                                                                           -         -          -
11.7.8. UTC Coding                                                                                                              -         -          -
11.7.9. Update AEF Association                                                                                                  -         -          -
11.7.10. Readiness Terminology                                                                                                  -         -          -
11.7.11. CONOPS                                                                                                                 -         -          -
11.8. Coordinating Education and Training
Policy and Program Changes
11.8.1. Supported bases                                                                                                         A         A          -
11.8.2. MAJCOM Functional Managers                                                                                              A         A          -
11.8.3. Training providers                                                                                                      A         -          -
11.9. Coordinating on Education and
Training Publications
11.9.1. AF/MAJCOM                                                                                                               -         -          -
11.9.2. Supplements                                                                                                             -         -          -
11.9.3. Provide recommendations                                                                                                 -         -          -
11.9.4. CFETP, AFJQS                                                                                                            A         A          -
11.9.5. Providing recommendations to
MAJCOM functional managers
                                                                                                                                -         A          -
11.10. Serve as MAJCOM ancillary training
program (ATP) advisor                                                                                                           -         -          -

11.11. Review expenditure of funds for
education and training programs
                                                                                                                                -         -          -
11.12. Air Force Education and Training
Recognition Programs
                                                                                                                                A         -          -

11.13. Participating in Air Force training
development activities
                                                                                                                                A         -          -

11.14. Advising inspection and evaluation
agencies
                                                                                                                                B         B          -
12. FSS FAMILIARIZATION
STRUCTURE
TR: PSD GUIDE- BLSDM CONOPS


                                                                               39
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       2.                3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                    Tasks                                                                      Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information
                                                                                                                               Provided




                                                 Core *

                                                          Deployment
                                                                         A           B         C           D          E          A         B          C

                                                                                                                               3-Skill   5-Skill   7-Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Trg      Trg        Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     I         C          O




                                                          ♦
                                                                        Start   Comp.       Initials    Initials    Initials     S         D          J
                                                                        Date     Date                                            C         C          T
  12.1. Complete online FSS Familiarization
  course                                          7                                                                              -         -          -
  12.2. Base Level Service Delivery Model                                                                                        -         -          -




Section B –Course Objective List
This area is reserved.

                                                                                40
Section C - Support Material
There are currently no support material requirements. This area is reserved.


Section D - Training Course Index


1. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the specialty and
shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field training programs.


2. Air Force In-Residence Courses.

COURSE NUMBER                                         TITLE                            LOCATION

E3ALR3S231 0A1A                Education and Training Apprentice                       Keesler AFB

(*)3AIRTXXXX 0B1A              Basic Instructor Course                                 Each TTW

J3AZRTXXXX 0P1A                Principles of Instruction                               Sheppard AFB

J3AZRTXXXX 0D1A                Instructional Systems Designer                          Sheppard AFB

X3AIRXXXXX 0C1A                Computer Based Instruction (CBI) Designer               Goodfellow AFB

                               FSS Superintendent Course                               Maxwell AFB


3. Air Force Distant Learning / Mobile Training

COURSE NUMBER                                        TITLE                     Method of Delivery

E6AZF3S251-0A1A                       AFTC Instructor Seminar                  Interactive Video Teletraining
                                                                               (IVT) Broadcast
X7AITTXXXX 0B1A                       Basic Instructor Course                  Mobile Training Team

E6AILTXXXX 0I1A                       Principles of Instructional System       Computer Based Training (CBT)
                                      Development

                                     * FSS Online Familiarization Course       Blackboard (CBT)



4. Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning (AFIADL) Courses


                                                         41
COURSE NUMBER                               TITLE                                    LOCATION

MECI 100                             Course for Authors                              Maxwell AFB



5. Other Training

CCAF Advisor’s Workshop                             Visit https://ccaf.maxwell.af.mil for current class schedule.

DANTES Online Test Control Officer (TCO) Academic Testing Course Visit http://www.dantes.doded.mil for current
enrollment procedures

Defense Imagery                                     Visit http://www.defenseimagery.mil/index.html for current
media

FAM Web-based Training V3                       Visit
https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/CoP/EntryCoP.asp?Filter=AF-LG-00-05


Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements

1. The following list of MAJCOM unique requirements is not all-inclusive; however, it covers the
most frequently referenced areas.


COURSE NUMBER                        TITLE                                  LOCATION

Y120010 ACC           Instructional Systems Development                     Dyess AFB
                      Principles Course

Y140020 ACC           Maintenance Training Management Course                Hill AFB, UT

Y140021 ACC           Instructional Systems Designer Course                 Hill AFB, UT

YTEC TMC              ANG Training Managers Course                          McGhee Tyson, TN




                                                      42
