DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                              CFETP 3D1X2
Headquarters US Air Force                                                  Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                             1 September 2014



                                     AFSC 3D1X2

                          CYBER TRANSPORT SYSTEMS




                            CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
                              AND TRAINING PLAN


ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                                   CYBER TRANSPORT SYSTEMS
                                          AFSC 3D1X2
                           CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

                                                      TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART I
Preface..............................................................................................................................................4
Abbreviations/Terms Explained ......................................................................................................6
Section A - General Information....................................................................................................16
Purpose of the CFETP
Use of the CFETP
Coordination and Approval of the CFETP
Section B - Career Field Progression and Information ..................................................................18
Specialty Description
      Cyber Transport Systems Apprentice/Journeyman/Craftsman (3D132/3D152/3D172)
      Cyber Systems Superintendent /Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM) (3D190/3D100)
Skill/Career Progression
      Apprentice (3-Level) Training
      Journeyman (5-Level) Training
      Craftsman (7-Level) Training
      Superintendent (9-Level) Training
      Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM) Training
      MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM)
      Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM)
Training Decisions
Community College of the Air Force Academic Programs
Career Field Path
      Education and Training Path Table
Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements .............................................................................31
Purpose
Specialty Qualification Requirements
      Apprentice (3-Level) Training
      Journeyman (5-Level) Training
      Craftsman (7-Level) Training
      Superintendent (9-Level) Training
Section D - Resource Constraints ..................................................................................................35
Purpose
Apprentice (3-Level) Training
Journeyman (5-Level) Training
Craftsman (7-Level) Training
Section E - Transition Training Guide ...........................................................................................35




                                                                          2
Part II
Section A - Specialty Training Standard .......................................................................................36
Section B - Course Objective List .................................................................................................59
Section C - Support Materials ........................................................................................................59
Air Force Job Qualification Standards and Air Force Qualification Training Packages
Section D - Training Course Index ................................................................................................61
Purpose
Air Force In-Residence Courses
Air University Courses
Exportable Courses
Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements ................................................................................62




OPR: 338th TRS/TRR
Approved By: CMSgt. Robert Puesey, 3D1 AFCFM (SAF/CIO A6CF)
Supersedes: CFETP3D1X2, dated 1 Jan 2011
Pages: 62




                                                                   3
                               CYBER TRANSPORT SYSTEMS
                                      AFSC 3D1X2
                  CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
PART I
Preface
1. The changing Command, Control, Communications, Computer, and Intelligence (C4I) and
Air and Space Expeditionary Forces (AEF) environments require vision, preparation, and
attention to ensure people have the right skills and tools to deliver the C4I capabilities and the
support required by the war fighter in meeting the Air Force mission of today and the vision of
the future. Declining resources, expanding diversity of mission, and ever-changing technologies
in the Air Force are impacting the availability of our most valuable resource--people. These
factors will continue to exist in the future, making it essential for the work force to be effectively
and efficiently trained to perform duties within each skill level of an Air Force Specialty (AFS).
To meet the challenges of tomorrow, the Air Force must place a greater emphasis on career field
training. This Cyber Transport Systems Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a
comprehensive core training document that identifies life-cycle training/education requirements,
support resources, and minimum core task requirements for the 3D1X2 specialty. The plan is a
"training road map" for the career field. It provides personnel a clear career path to success and
makes career field training identifiable, measurable, and budget defensible.
2. This CFETP along with the 3DXXX CFETP is a comprehensive education and training
document that identifies life cycle education and training requirements, training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for this specialty. The CFETP documents the
career field training program and consists of two parts. Management uses both parts in
conjunction with the Training Business Area (TBA) to plan, manage, and control training within
the career field. NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty
position qualification training.
2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how everyone will use the plan; Section B identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path; Section C
associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, experience, training,
and other); and Section D indicates resource constraints. Some examples are funds, manpower,
equipment, facilities; Section E identifies transition training guide requirements for SSgt through
MSgt.
2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A: identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS)
and includes duties, tasks, Training References (TRs) to support training, AETC conducted
training, wartime course and core tasks and correspondence course requirements. Section B:
contains the Course Objectives List (COL) and training standards supervisors will use to
determine if airmen satisfied training requirements. Section C: identifies available support
materials. An example is a Qualification Training Package, which may be developed to support
proficiency training; Section D identifies a training course index supervisors can use to
determine resources available to support training. Included here are both mandatory and optional
courses; Section E identifies MAJCOM unique training requirements supervisors can use to
determine additional training required for the associated qualification needs. At unit level,



                                                  4
supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate
with the overall goals of this plan.
3. Use of the guidance provided in this CFETP provides the foundation for effective and
efficient training for individuals in this career field at the appropriate points in their careers. This
plan enables the Air Force to train today's work force for tomorrow's jobs.




                                                   5
Abbreviations/Terms Explained
This section provides a common understanding of the terms that apply to the Cyber Transport
Systems Career Field and Education Training Plan.
Advanced Training (AT). A formal course of training that leads to a technical or supervisory
level of an AFS. Training is for selected airmen at the advanced level of an AFS.
Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF). The AEF is the Air Force’s methodology for
organizing, training, equipping, and sustaining rapidly responsive air and space forces to meet
defense strategy requirements. Through the AEF, consisting of enabler and tempo banded
capabilities the Air Force supports defense strategy requirements using a combination of both
permanently assigned and rotational (allocated) forces.
Air and Space Expeditionary Task Force (AETF). The AETF is the Air Force’s primary
warfighting organization and the means by which we present forces to a Joint Forces
Commander (JFC). When established, AETFs will form up under the designated Air Force
component headquarters.
Air Education Training Command (AETC). Responsible for the recruiting, training and
education of Air Force personnel. AETC also provides pre-commissioning, professional military
and continuing education.
Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). Representative appointed by the respective HQ
USAF Deputy Chief of Staff or Under Secretariat to ensure that assigned Air Force specialties
are trained and utilized to support Air Force mission requirements.
Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD). The official directory for all military
enlisted classification descriptions, codes, and identifiers. Establishes the occupational structure
of the Air Force enlisted force. The occupational structure is flexible to permit enlisted
personnel to specialize and develop their skills and abilities while allowing the Air Force to meet
changing mission requirements. Individual enlisted personnel have a joint responsibility with
commanders and supervisors at all levels to fully develop their abilities consistent with Air Force
needs and within the established patterns of specialization.
Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a
particular job type or duty position. Supervisors use the AFJQS to document task qualification.
The tasks on AFJQSs are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.
Air Force Qualification Training Package (AFQTP). An instructional course designed for
use at the unit to qualify or aid qualification in a duty position, program, or on a piece of
equipment. It may be printed, computer-based, or other audiovisual media.
Air Force Specialty (AFS). A group of positions, with the same title and code, that requires
common qualifications.
Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (AFTTP). The actions and methods that
implement joint doctrine that describe how forces will be employed in joint operations. They are
promulgated by the Chairman of the Joint Chief of Staff in coordination with the Combatants
Commands, Services and the JCS.
Air University Associate-to-Baccalaureate Cooperative (AU ABC). Allows Airmen to turn a
Community College of the Air Force Associates Degree into a Bachelor’s Degree from an


                                                 6
accredited university. The ABC program has established a partnership with various civilian
higher-education institutions to offer four-year degree opportunities via distance learning. The
participating schools will accept all of the credits earned by Airmen who have attained a CCAF
degree and apply them to a Bachelor’s degree related to their Air Force specialty.
Air University/AFCDA (Air Force Career Development Academy). The result of a
reorganization of the Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning (AFIADL); provides
access to the Extension Course Institute.
Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive core
training document that identifies: life-cycle education and training requirements; training support
resources and minimum core task requirements for a specialty. The CFETP aims to give
personnel a clear path and instill a sense of industry in career field training. CFETPs are
officially posted at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
Certification. A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required
standards.
Certifying Official. A person assigned by the commander to determine an individual’s ability to
perform a task to required standards.
Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield Explosive (CBRNE) Task
Qualification Training (TQT). CBRNE TQT ensures personnel maintain proficiency in
performing mission-critical tasks in a CBRNE environment. See AFI 10-2501, Air Force
Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations, and AFMAN 10-2602,
Nuclear, Biological, Chemical and Conventional (NBCC) Defense Operations and Standards for
additional information/requirements.
Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM) Code. CEM codes identify all chief master sergeant positions
in the Enlisted Classification Structure. They also identify chief master sergeants who, through
extensive experience and training, have demonstrated managerial ability to plan, direct,
coordinate, implement, and control a wide range of work activity. Some managerial duties and
responsibilities that are common to all chief enlisted managers are: managing and directing
personnel resource activities; interpreting and enforcing policy and applicable directives;
establishing control procedures to meet work goals and standards; recommending or initiating
actions to improve functional operation efficiency; planning and programming work
commitments, and schedules; developing plans regarding facilities, supplies, and equipment
procurement and maintenance.
Collaboration. Collaboration is the interaction among two or more individuals encompassing a
variety of behaviors including: communication, information sharing, coordination, cooperation,
problem-solving, and negotiation.
Collaborative Tools. Collaborative tools consist of various web-based technologies including
advanced white boarding, groupware, and facilitation. Collaborative capabilities assist
significantly with managing information throughout its life cycle and enable Air Force members
to perform most office-oriented and operational communication tasks from their desktops.
Command, Control, Communications, Computer, Intelligence, Surveillance, and
Reconnaissance (C4ISR). Integrated systems of doctrine, procedures, organizational structures,
personnel, equipment, facilities, and communications designed to support a commander’s



                                                 7
exercise of command and control through all phases of the operational continuum. C4 systems
include base visual information support systems.
Communications-Computer Systems (C-CS). The facilities, equipment, communications,
procedures, and personnel essential to a commander for planning, directing, and controlling
operations of assigned forces pursuant to the missions assigned.
Communications-Electronics (C-E). The specialized field concerned with the use of electronic
devices and systems for the acquisition or acceptance, processing, storage, display, analysis,
protection, disposition, and transfer of information.
Computer Based Training (CBT). A forum for training in which the student learns via a
computer terminal. It is an especially effective training tool that allows the students to practice
applications while they learn.
Content Management. A set of processes and technologies supporting the evolutionary life
cycle of digital information. This digital information is often referred to as content or, to be
precise, digital content. Digital content may take the form of text, such as documents,
multimedia like audio or video files, or any other file type that follows a content life cycle that
requires management.
Continuation Training. Additional advanced training that exceeds the minimum upgrade
training requirements and emphasizes present or future duty assignments.
Core Competency. An integrated bundle of expert knowledge and organizational skills inherent
to a particular career field(s) which makes a disproportionate contribution to the success of
providing the right skills needed for military operations, anywhere anytime. It cannot be
duplicated by any other organization, and is critical for the future.
Core Task. A task AFCFMs identify as a minimum qualification requirement for everyone
within an AFSC, regardless of duty position. A core task may be specified for a particular skill
level or in general across the AFSC. Guidance for using core tasks can be found in the
applicable CFETP narrative.
Course Objective List (COL). A publication derived from the initial/advanced skills Course
Training Standard (CTS), identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements and respective
standards provided to achieve a 3-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to
assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201 Air Force Training
Program.
Course Training Standard (CTS). A standard developed for all courses not governed by an
STS, including specialized training packages and computer-based training courses.
Critical Tasks. Critical Tasks are tasks that require specific training and certification above and
beyond other tasks. Tasks may be defined as critical either through AFI, Technical Orders,
higher headquarters, or at any level in the unit.
Cross Utilization Training. Training on non-duty AFSC specific tasks.
Cyberspace. A global domain within the information environment consisting of the
interdependent network of information technology infrastructures, including the Internet,
telecommunications networks, computer systems, and embedded processors and controllers.




                                                  8
Cyberspace Operations. The employment of cyber capabilities where the primary purpose is to
achieve objectives in or through cyberspace. Such operations include computer network
operations and activities to operate and defend the DoD Information Network (DoDIN).
Data Management. The process of planning, coordinating, sharing, and controlling
organizations’ data resources (AFPD 33-3, Information Management).
Direct Reporting Unit (DRU). Air Force subdivisions directly subordinate to the CSAF. A
DRU performs a mission that does not fit into any of the MAJCOMs. A DRU has many of the
same administrative and organizational responsibilities as a MAJCOM (Example of a DRU:
USAF Academy).
Document Management (DM). The process of managing documents through their life cycle;
from inception through creation, review, storage, dissemination, and archival or deletion.
Document management can also be a database system to organize stored documents, or a search
mechanism to quickly find specific documents (AFPD 33-3).
DoD Directive 8570.01 (Information Assurance Training, Certification, and Workforce
Management). Provides guidance and procedures for the training, certification, and
management of the DoD workforce conducting Information Assurance (IA) functions in
assigned duty positions.
DoD Information Network (DoDIN). The globally interconnected, end-to-end set of
information capabilities, associated processes, and personnel for collecting, processing, storing,
disseminating and managing information on demand to warfighters, policy makers, and support
personnel. The DoDIN includes all owned and leased communications and computing systems
and services, software (including applications), data, security services, and other associated
services necessary to achieve Information Superiority. The DoDIN supports all Department of
Defense, National Security, and related Intelligence community missions and functions
(strategic, operational, tactical, and business), in war and in peace. The DoDIN provides
capabilities from all operating locations (bases, posts, camps, stations, facilities, mobile
platforms, and deployed sites). The DoDIN provides interfaces to coalition, allied, and non-
DOD users and systems.
Duty Position Tasks. The tasks assigned to an individual for the position currently held. These
include, as a minimum, all core tasks that correspond to the duty position as directed by the
AFCFM or MFM, and tasks assigned by the supervisor.
Education and Training Course Announcement (ETCA). Located at
https://etca.randolph.af.mil, the ETCA contains specific MAJCOM procedures, fund cite
instructions, reporting instructions, and listings for those formal courses the MAJCOMs or FOAs
conduct or manage. The ETCA contains courses the Air Force and reserve forces conduct or
administer and serves as a reference for the Air Force, DoD, other military services, government
agencies, and security assistance programs.
Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in each skill level of a specialty.
Enterprise. The entire range of communications/networking within garrison and tactical realms
to include voice, video, data, imagery, and sensor.




                                                 9
Enterprise Information Management (EIM). Encompasses a set of strategies for
organizational management of all aspects of enterprise data as information assets. The proper
models, data architecture, application architecture, and integration vision enables using the
“enterprise information asset” for strategic analysis, customer-centricity, performance and
productivity analytics, and personalization, eventually providing a means for transitioning from
an operational, line-of-business oriented application environment, to an intelligent, learning, and
agile organization.
Enterprise Information System (EIS). A portfolio of services that bring about Enterprise
Information Management (EIM) capabilities.
Expeditionary Aerospace Force (EAF). The EAF concept is how the Air Force will organize,
train, equip, and sustain itself by creating a mindset and cultural state that embraces the unique
characteristics of aerospace power – range, speed, flexibility, precision – to meet the national
security challenges of the 21st Century.
Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video,
or other necessary means to supplement training.
Field Operating Agency (FOA). FOAs are subdivisions of the Air Force directly subordinate
to a headquarters US Air Force functional manager. A FOA performs field activities beyond the
scope of any of the MAJCOMs. The activities are specialized or associated with an Air Force-
wide mission (Example of a FOA is the Air Force Weather Agency).
Field Training. Technical, operator, and other training that either a field training detachment or
field training team conducts at operational locations on specific systems and associated direct-
support equipment for maintenance and aircrew personnel.
Functional Area Manager (FAM). The individual accountable for the management and
oversight of all personnel and equipment within a specific functional area to support operational
planning and execution. Responsibilities include, but are not limited to, developing and
reviewing policy; developing, managing, and maintaining Unit Type Codes (UTC); developing
criteria for and monitoring readiness reporting; force posturing; and analysis. At each level of
responsibility (Headquarters Air Force, MAJCOM, Air Component, FOA, DRU, and Unit), the
FAM should be the most highly knowledgeable and experienced person within the functional
area and have the widest range of visibility over the functional area readiness and capability
issues.
Functional Manager (FM). An individual assigned collateral responsibility for training,
classification, utilization, and career development of personnel. AFSC Functional Managers
exist at MAJCOM, NAF and base level.
Global Combat Support System – Air Force (GCSS-AF). An enterprise infrastructure
program established to develop, integrate, and deploy combat support information capabilities.
The mission of GCSS-AF is to provide timely, accurate, and trusted Agile Combat Support
(ACS) information to Joint and Air Force commanders, their staffs, and ACS personnel at all
ranks and echelons with the appropriate level of security needed to execute the Air Force mission
throughout the spectrum of military operations. GCSS-AF is the means by which ACS
functional systems will be modernized and integrated to improve business processes supported
on a single robust network-centric infrastructure. In addition to integrating combat support
applications, GCSS-AF also provides core enterprise services such as a common user


                                                10
presentation through the AF Portal, Enterprise Information Management (Workflow, Records
Management, Document Management, Knowledge Management, and Collaboration), and an
enterprise data warehouse.
Global Command and Control System (GCCS). An automated information system designed
to support deliberate and crisis planning with the use of an integrated set of analytic tools and
flexible data transfer capabilities. GCCS will become the single C4I system to support the
warfighter from foxhole to command post.
Go/No-Go. The “Go” is the stage at which a trainee has gained enough skill, knowledge, and
experience to perform the tasks without supervision; meets the task standard. “No-Go” is the
stage at which the trainee has not gained enough skill, knowledge, and experience to perform
task without supervision; does not meet task standard.
Individual Training Plan (ITP). Use AF Form 623, On-the-Job Training Record/AF Form
623B, or other approved records system (e.g., Training Business Area (TBA)). The AF Form
623 reflects past and current qualifications and is used to determine training requirements. It is
intended to be a complete history of past training and current qualifications. Supervisors will
ensure all documentation is accurate and comprehensive.
Information Life Cycle. Typically characterized as creation or collection, processing,
dissemination, use, storage, protection, and disposition.
Information Management (IM). The planning, budgeting, manipulating, and controlling of
information throughout its life cycle. Joint Publication 3-0 further defines IM as the function of
managing an organization’s information resources by the handling of knowledge acquired by one
or many different individuals and organizations in a way that optimizes access by all who have a
share in that knowledge or a right to that knowledge.
Information Resources Management (IRM). The process of managing information resources
to accomplish agency missions and to improve agency performance (e.g., the reduction of
information collection burdens on the public).
Information Systems (IS). Set of information resources organized for the collection, storage,
processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, disposition, display, or transmission of
information.
Information Technology Fundamentals (ITF). The scope of training in the ITF course
includes network theory, network components, software, cryptology, network fault isolation
techniques, cyber security, communication and information professionals, operational risk
management, legal and ethics, C4I security, enterprise systems, CBRN personal and family
countermeasures and cyber operations.
Information Technology Fundamentals Electronic Principles (ITF EP). Training which
includes electronic principles subjects of test equipment, basic circuits and components,
electromagnetic devices, solid state devices, transistor amplifier circuits, power supplies, wave
generation, digital numbering systems, digital logic, and basic communications theory.
Information Technology/National Security Systems (IT/NSS). Any equipment, or
interconnected system or subsystem of equipment, that is used in the automatic acquisition,
storage, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange,
transmission, or reception of data or information by the Executive Agency. This includes


                                                11
equipment used by a DoD Component directly, or used by a contractor under a contract with the
DoD Component, which requires the use of such equipment, or requires the use, to a significant
extent, of such equipment in the performance of a service or the furnishing of a product. The
term "IT" also includes computers, ancillary equipment, software, firmware and similar
procedures, services (including support services), and related resources. Notwithstanding the
above, the term "IT" does not include any equipment that is acquired by a Federal contractor
incidental to a Federal contract. The term "IT" includes National Security Systems (NSS).
Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly (but flexible) process for
planning, developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures personnel
are taught in a cost efficient way to become educated on the knowledge, skills, and abilities
essential for successful job performance.
Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS). JTRS will link the power of the DoD Information
Network (DoDIN) to the warfighter in applying fire effects and achieving overall battlefield
superiority. By developing and implementing an open architecture of cutting-edge radio
waveform technology, multiple radio types (e.g., handheld, ground-mobile, airborne, maritime,
etc.) are now allowed to communicate with one another. The ultimate goal is to produce a
family of interoperable, modular, software-defined radios that operate as nodes in a network to
ensure secure wireless communication and networking services for mobile and fixed forces.
These goals extend to U.S. allies, joint and coalition partners, and disaster response personnel.
Knowledge. Information from multiple domains that has been synthesized, through inference or
deduction, into meaning or understanding that was not previously known. This includes:
explicit
knowledge, which can be easily articulated, codified, and stored; and tacit knowledge, which is
based on personal experience, expertise, and judgment. Tacit knowledge is more challenging to
capture and share than explicit knowledge.
Knowledge Management (KM). Handling, directing, governing, or controlling of natural
knowledge processes within an organization in order to achieve the goals and objectives of the
organization.
Knowledge Operations (KO). Application and adaptation of Knowledge Management (KM)
into daily AF operations to enable information/decision superiority. KO leverages the
interaction of people, processes, and EIS technologies to capture, store, organize, share, and
control tacit and explicit knowledge, ensuring all mission execution processes have access to
relevant cross-functional information in a collaborative, timely, and contextual manner.
Knowledge Training. Training used to provide a base of knowledge for task performance. It
may also be used in lieu of task performance when the training capability does not exist.
Learning gained through knowledge rather than hands-on experience
Major Command (MAJCOM). A MAJCOM represents a major Air Force subdivision having
a specific portion of the Air Force mission. Each MAJCOM is directly subordinate to HQ
USAF. MAJCOMs are interrelated and complementary, providing offensive, defensive, and
support elements.
Master Task Listing (MTL). A comprehensive list (100%) of all tasks performed within a
work center and consisting of the current CFETP or AFJQS and locally developed AF Forms
797. Also, should include tasks required for deployment and/or UTC requirements.


                                                12
Master Training Plan (MTP). Employs a strategy for ensuring the completion of all work
center job requirements by using an MTL, providing milestones for task/CDC completion and
prioritizes deployment/UTC tasks, home station training tasks, upgrade tasks, and qualification
tasks.
Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). A detailed report showing the results of an
occupational survey of tasks performed within a particular AFSC. Surveys are conducted by the
Air Force Occupational Measurement Squadron (http://oa.aetc.af.mil/).
On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify
personnel in both upgrade (skill level award) and job qualification (duty position) training.
Proficiency Training. Additional training, either in-residence, or exportable advanced training
courses, or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge
beyond the minimum required for upgrade.
Qualification Training. Hands-on, task performance based training designed to qualify airmen
in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade
training process and is designed to provide skills training required to do the job.
Records Management. The planning, controlling, directing, organizing, training, promoting,
and other managerial activities involved in records creation, maintenance and use, and
disposition in order to achieve adequate and proper documentation of the policies and
transactions of the Federal Government and effective and economical management of agency
operations.
Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies (such as money, facilities, time, manpower and
equipment) that preclude desired training from being delivered.
Specialty Training Package and COMSEC Qualification Training Package. A composite of
lesson plans, test material, instructions, policy, doctrine, and procedures necessary to conduct
training. These packages are prepared by AETC, validated by CYSS COMSEC policy branch
and administered by qualified communications security (COMSEC) maintenance personnel.
Specialty Training Requirements Team (STRT). A meeting chaired by the AFCFM with
MAJCOM FMs, AETC Training Managers, Subject Matter Experts (SME) and HQ AETC
Occupational Analysis Division (OAD) in attendance. Typically held three months prior to a
Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) to finalize any CFETP changes or enlisted
classification directory descriptions.
Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force
specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge that an airman in that specialty may be expected to
perform or to know on the job. Also identifies the training provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, or 7-skill
level within an enlisted AFS. It further serves as a contract between AETC and the functional
user to show which of the overall training requirements for an Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC)
are taught in formal schools and correspondence courses.
Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept established and defined by
authority, custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring
quantities or qualities, establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results. It is a fixed
quantity or quality.



                                                 13
System Training Plan (STP). A living document that explains what training is needed for a
system and how to obtain the training.
Task Module (TM). A group of tasks performed together within an AFS that require common
knowledge, skills, and abilities. TMs are identified by an identification code and a statement.
Total Force. All collective components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian elements) of the
United States Air Force.
Training Advisory Group (TAG). Chaired by the AFCFM and attended by the MAJCOM,
selected DRU’s, and FOA functional managers. The TAG sets training goals and priorities,
reviews training programs, and evaluates emerging training technologies. The group meets, as
required, to prioritize training product development.
Training Business Area (TBA). A web-based training application that provides Air Force war
fighters with global, real-time visibility into qualifications, certifications, and training status of
communications professionals. TBA supports base, wing, and work center training management
activities by automating business processes and capabilities to eliminate paper-based practices.
The system centralizes management of training task data, provides user access to CFETPs/JQSs,
and increases security through a single AF Portal log on.
Training Capability. The capability of a training setting to provide training on specified
requirements, based on the availability of resources.
Training Planning Team (TPT). Comprised of the same personnel as a U&TW, TPTs are
more intimately involved in training development and the range of issues examined is greater
than in the U&TW forum.
Training Requirements Analysis (TRA). A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFSC to
be included in the training decision process.
Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-
the-job, field training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.).
Trusted Thin Client (TTC). A computer or a computer program which depends on another
computer (or server) to fulfill its traditional computational roles while utilizing security policy to
prevent cross domain contamination.
Unit Type Code (UTC). A five-character alphanumeric code identifying a specific force
package of personnel and/or equipment. The UTC is the means for linking logistics and
manpower details within a unit type and is used to communicate force data. The UTC represents
a wartime capability designed to fill a valid contingency requirement.
Upgrade Training. Training that leads to the award of a higher skill level.
Utilization and Training Pattern. A depiction of the training provided to, and the jobs
performed by, personnel throughout their tenure within a career field or AFS. There are two
types of patterns: 1) Current pattern, which is based on the training provided to incumbents and
the jobs to which they have been and are assigned; and 2) Alternate pattern, which considers
proposed changes in manpower, personnel, and training policies.
Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum of the AFCFM, MAJCOM Functional
Managers, subject matter experts (SME), and AETC training personnel that determines career
ladder training requirements.


                                                  14
Wartime Tasks. Those tasks which must be taught when courses are accelerated during a
wartime environment. In response to a wartime scenario, these tasks will be taught in the 3-level
course in a streamlined training environment. These tasks are only for those career fields that
still need them applied to their schoolhouse tasks.
Workflow. A series of steps necessary for the initiation, tracking, and delivery of services or
outputs with the capability to cut across existing or future organizational boundaries.
Furthermore, web-based workflow products allow electronic coordination, staffing, and task
management of documents and files. They are relational to an electronic version of the Staff
Summary Sheet (SSS) and other AF/DoD forms used for routing/collection of information.
Automation provides the capability to suspense and track correspondence through the workflow
process and provides action officers and document originators status on their packages. Provides
users the capabilities to comply with structured electronic workflow processes and the flexibility
to create/develop ad hoc workflow courses of actions. Future use of standardized EIM tools will
enhance usability and eliminate legacy methods.




                                                15
Section A - General Information
1. Purpose of the CFETP. This CFETP, when used in conjunction with the 3DXXX
Cyberspace Support CFETP, provides the information necessary for AFCFMs, MAJCOM
Functional Managers (MFM), commanders, training managers, supervisors, and trainers to plan,
develop, manage, and conduct an effective and efficient career field training program. The plan
outlines the initial skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency training those
individuals in AFSC 3D1X2 should receive in order to develop and progress throughout their
careers. Initial skills training is the AFS specific training an individual receives upon entry into
the AF or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. This training is
provided by the 338th Training Squadron (TRS) at Keesler AFB, MS. Upgrade training
identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, Career Development Course
(CDC) completion, and correspondence courses required for award of the 5-, 7-, or 9-skill level.
Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an airman
in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade
training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills and knowledge required to do
the job. Advanced training is formal specialty training used for selected airmen. Proficiency
training is additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training courses, or on-
the-job training provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the
minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP has several purposes, some of which are:
1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field-training
program. Also, ensures that established training is provided at the appropriate point in an
individual's career.
1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education and training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.
1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and the
training medium.
1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact implementation of the desired career field
training program.
2. Use of the CFETP. The CFETP is maintained by the 3D1XX Air Force Career Field
Manager (AFCFM), SAF/CIO A6CF. MAJCOM FMs and AETC review the plan annually to
ensure currency and accuracy and forward recommended changes to the AFCFM. Using the list
of courses in Part II, they determine whether duplicate training exists and take steps to
eliminate/prevent duplicate efforts. Career field training managers at all levels use the plan to
ensure a comprehensive and cohesive training program is available for each individual in the
career ladder.
2.1. AETC training personnel develop/revise formal resident and exportable training based upon
requirements established by the users and documented in the STS. They also develop
procurement and acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified
training.
2.2. MAJCOM FMs ensure their training programs complement the CFETP for mandatory
initial skill and upgrade requirements. They also identify the needed AFJQSs/AFQTPs to
document unique upgrade and continuation training requirements. Requirements are satisfied



                                                  16
through OJT, resident training, contract training, or exportable courseware/courses. MAJCOM-
developed training to support this AFSC must be included in this plan.
2.3. 81st TRSS/TSQ Qualification Training Flight (Q-Flight) personnel develop training
packages (AFJQSs/AFQTPs) based on requests submitted by the MAJCOMs and according to
the priorities assigned by the AFCFM.
2.4. Unit level training managers and supervisors manage and control progression through the
career field by ensuring individuals complete the mandatory training requirements for upgrade
specified in this plan and supplemented by their MAJCOM. The list of courses in Part II is used
as a reference for planning continuation or career enhancement training.
2.5. Submit recommended CFETP corrections to the 81 TRSS Q-Flight Customer Service Desk
at 81 TRSS/TSQS, 601 D Street, Keesler AFB MS 39534-2235 or call DSN 597-3343. To
contact electronically send email to: qflight.customer.service@us.af.mil.
2.6. Submit recommended CFETP additions/deletions through your MAJCOM Functional
Manager.
3. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP. The AFCFM is the approval authority.
MAJCOM representatives and AETC training personnel coordinate on the career field training
requirements. The AETC training manager initiates an annual review of this document by
AETC and MAJCOM functional managers to ensure the CFETP’s currency and accuracy by
using the list of courses in Part II to eliminate duplicate training.




                                              17
Section B - Career Field Progression and Information
4. Specialty Description. This information supplements that presented in the AFECD.
4.1. Cyber Transport Systems Apprentice/Journeyman/Craftsman (3D132/3D152/3D172).
4.1.1. Specialty Summary: Deploys, sustains, troubleshoots, and repairs standard voice, data,
and video network infrastructure systems, IP detection systems and cryptographic equipment.
Performs, coordinates, integrates, and supervises network design, configuration, operation,
defense, restoration, and improvements. Analyzes capabilities and performance, identifies
problems, and takes corrective action. Fabricates, terminates, and interconnects wiring and
associated network infrastructure devices. Related DoD Occupational Subgroups: 115000 and
162200.
4.1.2. Duties and Responsibilities:
4.1.2.1. Provides mission critical voice, data, and video services. Installs, upgrades, replaces,
configures, and maintains systems/circuits/IP-based intrusion detection systems that access
military, Federal, and commercial networks. Manages infrastructure devices and systems using
the latest approved software tools.
4.1.2.2. Deploys and operates expeditionary communications systems. Uses agile logistics
support channels to sustain continuous network operations. Removes, repairs, and replaces
assemblies and subassemblies to optimally sustain voice, data, and video networks.
4.1.2.3. Establishes priorities, maintains, tests, troubleshoots, and repairs network systems
equipment and circuits utilizing tools and test equipment. Isolates malfunctions using diagnostic
software, technical data, block diagrams, voltage and waveform measurements, and other tests
requiring specialized test equipment.
4.1.2.4. Monitors performance of systems and circuits. Coordinates with coalition forces, DoD
agencies, and other service providers to analyze and isolate performance faults and implement
corrective actions. Checks equipment for serviceability and performs preventive maintenance.
Isolates faults by coordinating with commercial service providers and depots to test system
components and assemblies.
4.1.2.5. Maintains and administers network and circuit databases, records, and forms. Interprets
sketches and layout drawings for placement of distribution systems. Coordinates request for
service orders. Reviews, recommends, and implements changes to communications-computer
systems installations records (CSIR), technical data, engineering drawings, and equipment
wiring diagrams. Updates and verifies entries on system, facility, maintenance, and inspection
records. Initiates, tracks, and maintains shipping, receiving, supply, and equipment documents.
4.1.2.6. Conducts periodic inspections of systems installations and repair activities. Interprets
inspection reports and implements corrective actions, documents inspection and maintenance
actions.
4.1.2.7. Reviews and maintains operational measurement reports and analyzes network
utilization. Ensures equipment and components meet installation practice technical order and
accepted commercial installation specifications.




                                                18
4.1.2.8. Applies communications security programs to include physical, cryptographic,
transmission, and emission security. Develops and ensures compliance with safety standards and
instructions. Adheres to personnel reliability program requirements for priority level 1 facilities.
4.1.2.9. Manages, supervises, and performs planning and implementation activities. Manages
implementation and project installation and ensures architecture, configuration, and integration
conformity. Develops, plans, and integrates base communications systems. Serves as advisor at
meetings for facility design, military construction programs and minor construction planning.
Evaluates base comprehensive plan and civil engineering projects. Monitors status of base civil
engineer work requests. Performs mission review with customers. Controls, manages, and
monitors project milestones and funding from inception to completion. Determines adequacy
and correctness of project packages and amendments. Monitors project status and completion
actions. Manages and maintains system installation records, files, and indexes. Evaluates
contracts, wartime, support, contingency and exercise plans to determine impact on manpower,
equipment, and systems.
4.2. Cyber Systems Superintendent (3D190).
4.2.1. Specialty Summary. Manages system analysis and design, programming, systems
operation and maintenance, resource management and security management. Directs activities
for installing, maintaining, repairing, overhauling, deploying, and modifying cyberspace systems
and equipment platforms to include: voice, data, video client devices, and network infrastructure
systems, radio, satellite, intrusion detection, space systems, telemetry, microwave, and
cryptographic. In addition, manages and directs network and electronic warfare operations in
garrison and at deployed locations by performing duties to develop, sustain, and enhance
network and electromagnetic capabilities to defend national interests from attack and to create
effects in the cyberspace domain to achieve national objectives. Related DoD Occupational
Subgroup: 110100.
4.2.2. Duties and Responsibilities.
4.2.2.1. Plans and organizes maintenance activities. Plans and supervises system installation and
evaluates facilities layout and performance standards. Designs and develops organizational
structures and determines equipment, training, and supplies required for systems implementation
and support. Executes operational plans to ensure positive control of assigned forces. Evaluates
operational readiness of communications equipment, network devices, sensors, intrusion detection,
and related support equipment.
4.2.2.2. Directs activities responsible for system analysis and design, programming, operations and
maintenance, security, systems management, technical support and resource management.
Implements and interprets policies, directives and procedures.
4.2.2.3. Directs maintenance activities. Directs personnel employed in siting, deploying,
inspecting, adjusting, removing, replacing, and repairing communications systems and related
equipment. Prepares and analyzes reports encompassing siting, deploying, maintaining, installing,
repairing and removing communications systems and related equipment. Coordinates activities and
resolves common problems. Directs overhaul and repair of communications systems and related
equipment. Ensures work standards are maintained. Determines extent and economy of repair,
including disposition of malfunctioning equipment.




                                                19
4.2.2.4. Inspects and evaluates maintenance activities for compliance with directives. Evaluates,
rates and prepares reports on activity effectiveness. Recommends and implements corrective action
for improved methods and procedures. Evaluates effectiveness of equipment usage, systems
performance, customer service, supplies, and system scheduling, processing, and maintenance.
4.2.2.5. Supervises maintenance functions. Resolves problems with installing, maintaining,
repairing, and overhauling systems and equipment. Checks systems and equipment for proper
siting, installation, and serviceability. Establishes local maintenance procedures and policies.
Performs research and development of new systems and equipment.
4.2.2.6. Establishes training requirements. Establishes training programs to meet local knowledge
and certification requirements.
4.2.2.7. Plans, programs, and develops budget inputs to ensure resource availability for operational
requirements.
4.2.2.8. Manages plans, implementation, and development functions. Helps functional users define
requirements. Supervises functional user requirements translation into automated systems
capabilities. Organizes teams that use methodologies to meet mission requirements. Supervises test
and evaluation efforts to determine performance. Organizes and participates in mission
implementation and conversion. Ensures continued interface between functional users and
programming and operations personnel. Ensures compliance with standards for systems
documentation.
4.3. Chief Enlisted Manager. This specialty “caps” at the Chief Master Sergeant level with
those specialties that came up through the Cyber Support Systems Specialist (3D1XX) career
ladders. Personnel attaining the rank of CMSgt are assigned broad ranging duties in directing
and managing diverse communication functions.
4.4. MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM) for Cyber Systems. (AFI 36-2201, Air Force
Training Program; AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officers and Enlisted); Air
Force Enlisted Classification Directory). Appointed by the MAJCOM Director of
Communications (A6) or equivalent. Advises the MAJCOM/A6 and staff on 3D1XX utilization
and training issues. Serves as the MAJCOM voting representative during career field Utilization
and Training Workshops. Assists in gathering inputs and data to complete enlisted grade
allocation for Career Progression Group (CPG) reviews. Provides guidance to subordinate units
on 3D1XX personnel issues. Assists with the dissemination of information regarding Air Force
and career field policies, plans, programs, and procedures to subordinate units. Assists in
identifying qualified subject matter experts to help with the development of Specialty
Knowledge Tests (SKT) and the Career Development Course (CDC). Acts as the primary
MAJCOM reviewer on CDC training and classification waiver request packages. Coordinates
on all MAJCOM 3D1XX staffing and manpower issues.
4.5. Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) for the Cyber Systems Career Field.
(AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development; AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program; AFI 36-
2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officers and Enlisted); Air Force Enlisted Classification
Directory). Appointed by the Air Force Chief of Warfighting Integration and Chief Information
Officer (SAF/CIO A6). Advisor to the SAF/CIO A6 on all matters affecting the Cyber Systems
career fields. Communicates directly with MFMs and AETC Training Managers to disseminate
Air Force and career field policies and program requirements. Ensures development,



                                                 20
implementation, and maintenance of the CFETP. Serves as the chairperson for the
STRT/U&TW and uses it as a forum to determine and manage career field education and
training requirements, as they apply to mission needs. Possesses final authority to waive CFETP
requirements, including CDCs. Assists AETC training managers and course supervisors with
planning, developing, implementing, and maintaining all AFSC-specific training courses.
Assists in the development of AFSC-related manpower standards.
5. Skill/Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to
superintendent skill levels play an important role in the Air Force's ability to accomplish its
mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training do their part to plan, manage and
conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP and the
3D1X2 Education and Training Path able will ensure individuals receive viable training at
appropriate points in their careers. The training listed in this plan is specific to the AFSC 3D1X2
and must be used in conjunction with the common core training identified in the 3DXXX
CFETP.
5.1. Apprentice (3) Level. The Cyber Transport Systems Apprentice Course, serves as the
initial skills course and must be completed for the award of AFSC 3D132.
5.2. Journeyman (5) Level. Upgrade training consists of: (1) completing Cyber Transport
Systems CDC 3D152; (2) completing all core tasks identified for 5-level; (3) completing all 5-
level requirements outlined in the 3DXXX Cyberspace Support CFETP; (5) meeting time-in-
training requirements IAW AFI 36-2201; and (6) obtaining supervisor recommendation and
commander approval for the award of AFSC 3D152.
5.3. Craftsman (7) Level. Upgrade training consists of: (1) completing all core tasks identified
for 7-level; (2) completing all 7-level requirements outlined in the 3DXXX Cyberspace Support
CFETP; (3) meeting time-in-training requirements as identified in AFI 36-2201; and (4)
obtaining supervisor recommendation and commander approval for the award of AFSC 3D172.
5.4. Superintendent (9) Level. 3D190 skill level requirements are listed in the 3DXXX
Cyberspace Support (Common Core) CFETP.




                                                21
6. Training Decisions. This CFETP was developed to encapsulate an entire spectrum of
training requirements for the Cyber Transport Systems career field, using a building block
approach (simple to complex). Included in this spectrum was the strategy of when, where, and
how to meet the training requirements. The strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce
duplication of training and eliminate a disjointed approach to training.
6.1. Proficiency Training. This training is job qualification for an assigned duty position.
Additional qualification training becomes necessary when personnel transfer to another duty
position, the unit mission changes, a new personnel program comes on board, or any time
changes in techniques or procedures occur.
6.1.1. The 81st TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight) develops AFJQSs/AFQTPs to support tasks relating to
communications-electronics and communications-computer systems, functions and duties.
Completion of AFJQSs/AFQTPs is mandatory by duty position for personnel in upgrade or
qualification training.
6.1.2. CDC development is restricted to six volumes, two hundred pages each. The first
volumes will be common to all 3D1XX AFSCs, followed by the respective AFSC-specific
volumes. The following table outlines 5-level CDC contents.




                                               22
                                              3DX5X
   VOLUME 1                   Support to the Cyberspace Mission
   VOLUME 2                   Information Technology Concepts and Maintenance Principles
                                              3D152
   VOLUME 1                   Transport Principles
   VOLUME 2                   Network Concepts
   VOLUME 3                   Systems and Procedures

6.2. Commercial Certifications. Below are some available commercial certifications for 3D1X2
technicians. An “X” in the DANTES column indicates that testing may be completed at the base
education office. Tuition Assistance (TA) pays for only one certification during an entire career.
See the local base education office for more information. The Department of Veterans Affairs
(VA) has licensing and certification benefits that can be used, including the Montgomery GI Bill.
Visit http://www.gibill.va.gov/pamphlets/lcweb.htm for more information.




                                                 23
Certifications                              Criteria         Website                       DANTES
Electronics Technician Association
(ETA)
• Associate (CET)
• Journeyman (CET)
   Certified Network Computer Tech
   Certified Network System Tech
         Computer Competencies              • Experience
                                                             http://www.eta-i.org/         X
         Computer Service Technician        • Written Exam
         Certified Network Computer Tech
         Certified Network System Tech
         Web Specialist
         Electronic-Commerce Developer
         Telecommunications
• Senior (CET)
• Master (CET)
National Association of Radio and
Telecommunications Engineers                • Education
(NARTE)                                     • Experience     http://www.narte.org          X
• Junior Telecommunications Tech            • References
• Senior Telecommunications Tech            • Written Exam
• Master Telecommunications Tech
Cisco Certifications
• CCNA (Voice) Associate
• CCIE (Voice) Expert
• CCVP (Voice) Professional
• Cisco IP Telephony Design
• Cisco IP Telephony Support                • Education
• Cisco IP Telephony Express                • Experience     http://www.cisco.com
• Cisco IP Telephony Operations             • Written Exam
• Cisco IP Contact Center Express
• Cisco Unity Design
• Cisco Unity Support
• CCNP Professional
• CCSP Professional
Avaya Certifications
• Avaya Certified Associate
                                            • Education
• Avaya Certified Specialist (Design or
                                            • Experience     www.avaya.com/certification
Implementation)
                                            • Written Exam
• (ACE) Avaya Certified Expert (Design or
Implementation)
Nortel Certifications
• (NCDE) Nortel Certified Design Expert     • Education
• (NCSE) Nortel Certified Support Expert
                                            • Experience     http://nortelnetworks.com/
• (NCDS) Nortel Certified Design
• (NCSS) Nortel Certified Support           • Written Exam
• (NCTS) Nortel Certified Technology
Siemens Certifications
• SCCP - Siemens Certified Communication
Professional                                • Education
• SCCS - Siemens Certified Communication    • Experience     http://www.siemens.com
Specialist                                  • Written Exam
• SCCA - Siemens Certified Communication
Associate
IA Technical Level I**                      • Education      AF e-Learning Website
                                                                                           X
       A+                                   • Experience     Certification exam voucher
       Network +                            • Written Exam   available from CYSS
IA Technical Level II                       • Education      AF e-Learning Website         X


                                                   24
IA Management Level I                                       • Experience                Certification exam voucher
       Security +                                           • Written Exam              available from CYSS
IA Technical Level III                                      • Education                 AF e-Learning Website
                                                                                                                                         X
IA Management Level II & Level III                          • Experience                Certification exam voucher
       CISSP                                                • Written Exam              available from CYSS
* A+ certification will convert to an ETA Computer Service Technician certification.
** Net+ certification will convert to an ETA Certified Network Computer Technician
certification.
7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Academic Programs. Enrollment in CCAF
occurs upon completion of basic military training. CCAF provides the opportunity for all
enlisted members to obtain an Associate in Applied Science degree. In order to be awarded the
CCAF degree, all academic requirements must be completed before the student separates from
the Air Force, retires, or is commissioned as an officer. In addition to its associate’s degree
program, CCAF offers the following:
7.1. Occupational Instructor Certification. The College offers the Occupational Instructor
Certification to instructors teaching full time in a CCAF affiliated school. To qualify, instructors
must complete a 3 semester hour Instructor Methodology course, a 12 semester hour Teaching
Internship, have two years teaching experience from date of Teaching Internship completion,
hold an associate or higher degree, and be recommended by their commander/commandant.
7.2. The Electronic Systems Technology (4VHP) program applies to this career fields.
7.2.1. Degree Requirements: Individuals must hold the 5-skill level at the time of program
completion.
........................................................................................................................Semester hours
Technical Education.......................................................................................24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies ............................................ 6
Physical Education ......................................................................................... 4
General Education ..........................................................................................15
Program Electives ..........................................................................................15
Total                                                                                                            .......64
7.2.2. Technical Education (24 semester hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of Technical
Core subjects and courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours will be applied
from Technical Core/Technical Elective subjects and courses.
7.2.3. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 semester hours): Professional military
education and/or civilian management courses. See CCAF General Catalog for application of
civilian management courses.
7.2.4. Physical Education (4 semester hours): Satisfied upon completion of basic military
training.
7.2.5. General Education (15 semester hours): Courses must meet the criteria for application of
courses to the General Education requirement and be in agreement with the definitions of
applicable General Education subjects/courses as outlined in the CCAF General Catalog.
7.2.6. General Education Mobile (GEM): GEM is a partnership between CCAF and civilian
academic institutions to offer general education courses to meet CCAF A.A.S. degree



                                                                      25
requirements. Courses are offered via distance learning which reduces CCAF educational
impact of deployments, PCS and family commitments.
7.2.7. Program Elective (15 semester hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education courses, including natural
science courses meeting General Education requirement application criteria. Six semester hours
of CCAF degree applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be
applied.
7.3. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill
certification is awarded for the primary occupational specialty. The College uses a competency
based assessment process for trade skill certification at one of four proficiency levels:
Apprentice, Journeyman, Craftsman (Supervisor), or Master Craftsman (Manager). All are
transcribed on the CCAF transcript.
7.4. See the current CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied
Science in Electronic Systems Technology. The catalog is available at your education office, or
from http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/.
7.5. Additional off-duty education is highly encouraged. Individuals desiring to become an
AETC instructor should be actively pursuing an associate degree. A degreed faculty is necessary
to maintain CCAF’s accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.




                                               26
8. Career Field Path. The following summarizes career progression and personnel allocations
across the career ladder. 3D0XX and 3D1XX personnel maintain their individual AFSC
identifiers through the rank of MSgt. Upon promotion to SMSgt, 3D0X1/3D0X2/3D0X3
/3D0X4 merge to become a 3D090; AFSCs 3D1X1/3D1X2/3D1X3/3D1X4/3D1X7 merge to
become a 3D190. Specific demographic information is available on the Web at
http://wwa.afpc.randolph.af.mil/demographics/.




                                             27
                                         3D1X2, CYBER TRANSPORT SYSTEMS
                                          EDUCATION AND TRAINING PATH


                       EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                                         AVERAGE SEW ON TIME
                           REQUIREMENTS                                                                 AND COMMENTS
BASIC MILITARY TRAINING SCHOOL (BMTS)
APPRENTICE TECHNICAL SCHOOL                                                                          Amn ...................6 months
(3-SKILL LEVEL)……………………………………Mandatory.
UPGRADE TO JOURNEYMAN (5-SKILL LEVEL)                                                                A1C ....................16 months
Minimum 12 months OJT (9 months for retrainees).
Complete 5-Level CDCs………………………….......Mandatory.
Specific AFJQSs/AFQTPs for equipment at assigned location by                                         SrA .....................3 years
duty position…………………………………………...Mandatory.                                                           Earliest ...............28 Months
                                                                                                     HYT ...................8 years
CS Management and Generic AFJQSs/AFQTPs for various unit
level duties……………………………………………..Mandatory.
Complete 3DXXX CFETP requirements for 5-Skill Level
…………………………………………………………Mandatory.
AETC Supplemental training courses as determined by MAJCOM
........................................................................................ Optional.
Community College of the Air Force Associates Degree
........................................................................................ Optional.
AIRMAN LEADERSHIP SCHOOL (ALS)                                                                       TRAINER: Must meet trainer
Attendance is limited to SSgt selectees or those attaining 48                                        eligibility requirements as per
months Total Active Federal Military Service (TAFMS) and who                                         AFI 36-2201
have not been selected for promotion to SSgt. Completion is
mandatory before assuming the rank of SSgt. ANG/AFRC may
complete by correspondence course…………………..Mandatory.




                                                                        28
                                         3D1X2, CYBER TRANSPORT SYSTEMS
                                          EDUCATION AND TRAINING PATH


                       EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                                           AVERAGE SEW ON TIME
                           REQUIREMENTS                                                                   AND COMMENTS
UPGRADE TO CRAFTSMAN (7-SKILL LEVEL)                                                                  SSgt ....................4.51 years
Minimum rank of SSgt. 12 months OJT (6 months for retrainees).                                        Earliest ...............3 years
                                                                                                      HYT ...................15 years
Completion of 7-level CDCs, if available.
Must be 7-level to sew on TSgt………………………..Mandatory.                                                   TSgt ....................10.78 years
Completion of the E6ACW3DX7X 01AA Cyberspace Career                                                   Earliest ...............5 years
Advancement Course………………………………….Mandatory.                                                            HYT ...................20 years
CS Management and Generic AFJQSs/AFQTPs for various unit                                              CERTIFIER: Must meet
level duties……………………………………………..Mandatory.                                                             certifier eligibility requirements
Complete 3DXXX CFETP requirements for 7-Skill Level                                                   as per AFI 36-2201
…………………………………………………………Mandatory.
AETC Supplemental training courses as determined by MAJCOM
........................................................................................ Optional.
Community College of the Air Force Associates Degree
........................................................................................ ..Desired.
NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICER ACADEMY (NCOA).                                                               MSgt...................15.27 years
Completion is mandatory before assuming the rank of MSgt.                                             Earliest ...............8 years
…………………………………………………………Mandatory.                                                                      HYT ...................24 years

Active duty attendance is limited to TSgt, or MSgt.

ANG/AFRC SSgt or TSgt may attend in-residence or complete by
correspondence course.
Community College of the Air Force Associates
Degree…………………………………………….Highly Desired




                                                                       29
                               3D1X2, CYBER TRANSPORT SYSTEMS
                                EDUCATION AND TRAINING PATH


                 EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                      AVERAGE SEW ON TIME
                     REQUIREMENTS                                              AND COMMENTS
USAF SENIOR NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICER                                         SMSgt ................18.89 years
ACADEMY (SNCOA)                                                             Earliest ...............11 years
                                                                            HYT ...................26 years
Attendance is limited to SMSgt or SMSgt Selectee.
Completion is mandatory before assuming the rank of SMSgt
……………………………………….………………..Mandatory.
SNCOA Correspondence Course.................................... Optional.
ANG/AFRC may complete by correspondence course.
ANG/AFRC MSgts may attend in-residence………….Mandatory.
E6ACW3DX9X 00AA CYBERSPACE SUPERINTENDENT
COURSE
Attendance is limited to CMSgt, SMSgt and SMSgt selectees.
Completion is mandatory within one year of selection to SMSgt
…………………………………………………………Mandatory.
UPGRADE TO SUPERINTENDENT (9-SKILL LEVEL)
Awarded upon sew on of SMSgt………………………Mandatory.
Complete 3DXXX CFETP requirements for 9-Skill Level
…………………………………………………………Mandatory.
CS Management and Generic AFJQSs/AFQTPs for various unit
level duties……………………………………………..Mandatory.
Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM)                                                CMSgt ................22.90 years
                                                                            Earliest ...............14 years
                                                                            HYT ...................30 years
NOTE 1: Published sew-on times are Air Force averages. Refer to the Air Force Personnel
Center’s homepage to determine career field specific information: https://gum-
crm.csd.disa.mil/app/answers/detail/a_id/13016.
NOTE 2: See Part II, Sections C and D for a list of AFJQSs/AFQTPs and AETC supplemental
training.
NOTE 3: All core/duty position tasks must be completed prior to upgrade.




                                                     30
Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements
9. Purpose. The various skill levels in the career field are defined in terms of tasks and
knowledge requirements for each skill level in the Cyber Transport Systems career field of the
Cyber Support Systems career ladder. They are stated in broad, general terms and establish the
standards of performance. Core tasks, knowledge items, and skill requirements for this specialty
are identified in the STS, COL, CDCs, AFJQSs/AFQTPs, etc. Completion of the mandatory
3-level skill awarding course, CDCs, and applicable AFJQSs/AFQTPs define the Air Force core
tasks for this specialty. NOTE: The 3DXXX Cyberspace Support CFETP lists additional skill-
level requirements which are required by all 3DXXX AFSCs.
10. Specialty Qualification Requirements.
10.1. Apprentice (3-Level) Training.
 KNOWLEDGE             Knowledge of Electronic and Network Principles, Information Assurance,
                       Telephony, Copper and Fiber-Optic Transmission Principles, Cryptographic
                       Techniques, Network System Installation Practices, Project and Circuit
                       Diagram Interpretation, Test Equipment, Special Tools, and Management
                       Practices is Mandatory.
 EDUCATION             Completion of high school is mandatory.
                       Additional courses in Mathematics, Computer Science, or Information
                       Technologies (IT) are desirable.
                       Network+ certification is desirable.
 TRAINING              Completion of the Cyber Transport Systems Specialist course, E3ABR3D132
                       00AA (PDS Code ZIG)
                       (See Part II, Section B for Course Objective List)
 EXPERIENCE            None required
 OTHER                 For award and retention of AFSC 3D132, must maintain an Air Force Network
                       License according to AFMAN 33-282, Computer Security (COMPUSEC).
                       Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examination and
                       Standards.
                       The ability to obtain a government license according to AFMAN 24-309,
                       Vehicle Operations.
                       Completion of a current Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI)
                       according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management is
                       mandatory.
                       NOTE: Award of the 3-skill level without a completed SSBI is authorized
                       provided an interim SSBI has been granted according to AFI 31-501.
 IMPLEMENTATION        Attendance at the Apprentice Cyber Transport Systems Specialist Course is
                       mandatory for award of the 3-skill level unless waived by the AFCFM.




                                                31
10.2. Journeyman (5-Level) Training.
KNOWLEDGE           All 3D132 Knowledge Qualifications apply to the 3D152 Requirements.
                    Completion of the 3D152 Career Development Courses.
TRAINING            Completion of all 5-level requirements outlined in the 3DXXX Cyberspace
                    Support CFETP.
                    No mandatory AETC training courses are required for upgrade.
EXPERIENCE          Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3D132.
                    Experience performing: Installation, Maintenance, And Repair of Voice, Data,
                    and Video Network Infrastructure and Cryptographic Equipment.
                    Completion of all STS core tasks.
                    Completion of applicable AFJQSs/AFQTPs.
                    Completion of all local tasks assigned for the duty position.
OTHER               For award and retention of AFSC 3D152, must maintain an Air Force Network
                    License according to AFMAN 33-282, Computer Security (COMPUSEC).
                    Completion of and eligibility for Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI)
                    according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management is
                    mandatory for award and retention of this skill level.
                    Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and
                    Standards.
IMPLEMENTATION      Entry into formal journeyman upgrade training is accomplished once
                    individuals are assigned to their first duty station.
                    Qualification training is initiated anytime individuals are assigned duties for
                    which they are not qualified.
                    Use CDCs, CBTs, and AFJQSs/AFQTPs concurrently to obtain the necessary
                    qualification for refresher and cross-utilization training.




                                              32
10.3. Craftsman (7-Level) Training.
 KNOWLEDGE           All 3D152 Knowledge Qualifications apply to the 3D172 Requirements

 TRAINING            Completion of the E6ACW3DX7X 01AA Cyberspace Career Advancement
                     Course is mandatory.
                     Completion of all 7-level requirements outlined in the 3DXXX Cyberspace
                     Support CFETP
 EXPERIENCE          Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3D152.
                     Experience Performing or Supervising Installation, Maintenance, and Repair of
                     Voice, Data, and Video Network Infrastructure and Cryptographic Equipment.
                     Completion of all STS core tasks.
                     Completion of applicable AFJQSs/AFQTPs.
                     Completion of all local tasks assigned for the duty position.
 OTHER               For award and retention of AFSC 3D172, must maintain an Air Force Network
                     License according to AFMAN 33-282, Computer Security (COMPUSEC).
                     Completion of and eligibility for Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI)
                     according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management is
                     mandatory for award and retention of this skill level.
                     Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and
                     Standards.
 IMPLEMENTATION      Entry into OJT is initiated when individuals obtain the necessary rank and skill
                     level.
                     Qualification training is initiated anytime an individual is assigned duties for
                     which they are not qualified.
                     Use CDCs and AFJQSs/AFQTPs concurrently to obtain the necessary
                     qualification for refresher and cross-utilization training.




                                               33
10.4. Superintendent (9-Level) Training.
 KNOWLEDGE              Techniques and Procedures of Systems Analysis and Design
                        Interpretation of Wiring and Logic Diagrams
                        Project Management
                        Software Methodology
                        System Operation and Maintenance
                        System and Equipment Capability, Capacity, and Logic
                        Performance Measurement, Security, and Resource Management
 TRAINING               Completion of E6ACW3DX9X 00AA Cyberspace Superintendent Course.
                        Mandatory.
 EXPERIENCE             Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3D17X
                        Managing or Directing Functions such as Installing, Maintaining, Repairing, or
                        Modifying the Various Systems and Related Equipment of the Feeder
                        Specialties.
 OTHER                  For award and retention of AFSC 3D190, must maintain an Air Force Network
                        License according to AFMAN 33-282, Computer Security (COMPUSEC).
                        Eligibility for a Secret security clearance according to AFI 31-501, Personnel
                        Security Program Management, is mandatory for award and retention of this
                        skill level.
 IMPLEMENTATION         Entry into OJT is initiated when individuals are selected for the rank of SMSgt.
                        Qualification training is initiated anytime individuals are assigned duties for
                        which they are not qualified.

10.5. Training Sources.
10.5.1. AFSC specific training – 338th TRS, Keesler AFB, MS at https://etca.randolph.af.mil/.
10.5.2. CDCs 3D152 are available for upgrade purposes through the unit training manager. For
individual qualification and cross-utilization training, CDCs are ordered through the unit training
office.
10.5.3. AFJQSs/AFQTPs are Air Force publications and are mandatory for use by personnel in
upgrade or qualification training. They are developed by the 81st TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight), Keesler
AFB, MS and may be downloaded from
https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/20946/AFKN_Docs/Forms/AllItems.aspx . Procedures for requesting
development of AFJQSs/AFQTPs are contained in AFI 33-154, Air Force On-the-Job Training
Products for Cyberspace Support Enlisted Specialty Training. AFJQSs/AFQTPs are listed in
Part II, Section C, of this CFETP.




                                                  34
Section D - Resource Constraints
11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints that preclude optimal/desired
training from being developed or conducted, including information such as part numbers,
national stock numbers, number of units required, cost, manpower, etc. Included are narrative
explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what effect each
constraint has on training. Finally, this section includes actions required, OPR and target
completion date. Resource constraints will be, at a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.
12. Apprentice (3-Level) Training.
12.1. Constraints: None
12.1.1. Impact. N/A
12.1.2. Resources Required. N/A
12.1.3. Action Required. N/A
12.1. 4 OPR/Target Completion Date. N/A
13. Journeyman (5-Level) Training.
13.1. Constraints: None.
13.1.1. Impact. N/A
13.1.2. Resources Required. N/A
13.1.3. Action Required. N/A
13.1.4. OPR/Target Completion Date. N/A
14. Craftsman (7-Level) Training.
14.1. Constraints: None.
14.1.1. Impact. N/A
14.1.2. Resources Required. N/A
14.1.3. Action Required. N/A
14.1.4. OPR/Target Completion Date. N/A
15. Superintendent (9-Level) Training.
15.1. Constraints: None.
15.1.1. Impact. N/A
15.1.2. Resources Required. N/A
15.1.3. Action Required. N/A
15.1.4. OPR/Target Completion Date. N/A
Section E - Transition Training Guide
There are currently no transition training requirements. This area is reserved.




                                                35
PART II
Section A - Specialty Training Standard
1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC for the 3-
level class beginning 5 June 2015.
2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201 this STS:
2.1. Lists in column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common tasks,
knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for airman to perform duties in the 3-, 5-,
and 7-skill level. Column 2 (Core Tasks) identifies, by skill level, specialty-wide training
requirements. NOTE: Core tasks are minimum task training requirements for upgrade.
2.2. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and
knowledge training requirements. Use automated training management systems to document
technician qualifications, if available. For initial certification or transcribing documentation
complete the columns in accordance with AFI 36-2201.
2.3. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the
proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the
task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course. See the Air
University Catalog maintained at https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/AE-ED-02-
37/AFKN_Docs/Forms/AllItems.aspx?RootFolder=%2Fsites%2FAE%2DED%2D02%2D37%2
FAFKN%5FDocs%2Fe%2DCDC%5FCDC%20Catalog for current CDC listings.
2.4. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to indicate
the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career development
courses.
2.5. Becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job training when placed in AF Form
623, Individual Training Record folder and used according to AFI 36-2201.
2.6. Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion
System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKT) are developed at the Airmen Advancement
Division by senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their career fields. The tests
sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development team members as
most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon study references
listed in the Enlisted Promotion References and Requirements Catalog (EPRRC). Individual
responsibilities are listed in chapter 1 of AFI 36-2605, Air Force Military Personnel Testing
System. WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard or Air Reserve Forces.
3. Recommendations. Comments and recommendations are invited concerning the quality of
AETC training. A Training Feedback Hotline has been installed for the supervisors'
convenience. For a quick response to concerns, call our Training Feedback Hotline at DSN 597-
4566, fax us at DSN 597-3790, or e-mail us at 81trg-tget@keesler.af.mil. Reference this STS
and identify the specific area of concern (paragraph, training standard element, etc.).




                                                 36
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
OFFICIAL                                 MICHAEL J. BASLA, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                         Chief, Information Dominance and
                                           Chief Information Officer

Attachments:
1. Qualitative Requirements
2. Specialty Training Standard (STS) 3D1X2




                                             37
                                          PREFACE
NOTE 1: Users are responsible for annotating technical references to identify current references
pending STS revision. Locate current Air Force publications at:

     DOD Issuances and OSD Administrative Instructions at
     http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/
     Air Force publications at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
     AFSSIs at https://private.afnic.af.mil/ia/PolicyDocuments.cfm
     DISA Circulars and Instructions at https://www.disa.mil/About/DISA-Issuances
     Technical Orders (TO) at https://www.my.af.mil/etims/ETIMS/index.jsp
     AF e-Learning:
     https://usafprod.skillport.com/skillportfe/custom/login/usaf/seamlesslogin.action
NOTE 2: Knowledge and/or performance tasks are defined in the AFJQS. AFJQS items set the
standard for qualification and certification and are mandatory for use in conjunction with this
STS when applicable to the duty position.
NOTE 3: All objectives are trained during wartime.
NOTE 4: Commanders, supervisors and trainers will use TBA to track and manage training for
all 3DXXX personnel.
NOTE 5: When an AFJQS is loaded into TBA, AFJQS task numbering will vary from the STS.
The numbering scheme is defined by your work center specific master training plan.
NOTE 6: Third person certification is not required for all Cyber Support Specialist personnel.
However, members (to include civilians and contractors) assigned to crew positions are still
required position certification in accordance with Stan-Eval procedures.
NOTE 7: Senior NCO’s in the 3DXXX AFSCs are not required to have an Individual Training
Plan (ITP) with the following exceptions: personnel in upgrade training status, or performing
equipment maintenance as part of primary duties. Unit Commanders can require Senior NCO’s
with UTC tasks to have an ITP.
NOTE 8: Task will be taught in accordance with Security+ Certification CTS.




                                               38
                                                                                      Qualitative Requirements



                                     THIS BLOCK IS FOR IDENTIFICATION PURPOSES ONLY

                                                Personal Data – Privacy Act of 1974

PRINTED NAME OF TRAINEE (Last, First, Middle Initial)                      INITIALS (Written)     LAST 4 OF SSAN



                        PRINTED NAME OF TRAINER AND CERTIFYING OFFICIAL AND WRITTEN INITIALS


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I

N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I




                                                               39                                       Attachment 1
                                                                                               Qualitative Requirements


                                                        PROFICIENCY CODE KEY
-             SCALE     DEFINITION: The individual
              VALUE
                1       Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (EXTREMELY LIMITED)
Performance
   Levels




                2       Can do most parts of the task. Needs help only on hardest parts. (PARTIALLY PROFICIENT)
    Task




                3       Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (COMPETENT)
                4       Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task. (HIGHLY PROFICIENT)
                a       Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (NOMENCLATURE)
Knowledge
  Levels




                b       Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (PROCEDURES)
  *Task




                c       Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed. (OPERATING PRINCIPLES)
                d       Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (ADVANCED THEORY)
                A       Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (FACTS)
Knowledge
 **Subject

   Levels




                B       Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (PRINCIPLES)
                C       Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (ANALYSIS)
                D       Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (EVALUATION)
                                                                   Explanations
*      A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific
       task. (Example: b and 1b)
**     A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for
       a subject common to several tasks. This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in
       the course or CDC.
X      This mark is used alone in course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.
NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during wartime.
(-)    When this code is used in the Core Task Column it indicates that the qualification is a local determination.
(5) When this code is used in the Core Task Column it indicates the CFM has mandated this task as a core 5-level requirement. The
    training to satisfy this requirement is either provided through OJT, CBTs, CDCs, or a combination.
(7) When this code is used in the Core Task Column it indicates the CFM has mandated this task as a core 7-level requirement. The
    training to satisfy this requirement is either provided through OJT, CBTs, CDCs, or a combination.




                                                                        40                                                 Attachment 1
                                                                                                                  3D1X2 STS



                                                                                                4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                      3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                   2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                              3
                                       &                                                                5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                                 A       B        C           D          E        SKILL
                                   WARTIME                                                              LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
REFERENCES                                                                                     LEVEL
                                    TASKS
                                                                         TRAINE
                                             START   STOP   TRAINEE                CERTIFIER
                                             DATE    DATE   INITIALS
                                                                            R
                                                                                    INITIALS   Course    CDC        OJT       OJT
                                                                        INITIALS
1. CYBER TRANSPORT
SYSTEMS CAREER FIELD
TR: AFH 33-337; AFIs 10-
401, 33-115 Vols 1, 2, & 3;
AFI 36-2101; 3D1X2 CFETP
1.1. Structure                        -                                                          -         -         -         -
1.2. Progression within Air
                                      -                                                          -         -         -         -
Force Specialty Code 3D1X2
1.3. Read CFETP 3D1X2                 5                                                          -         -         -         -
1.4. Air Force Specialty Code
3D1X2
1.4.1. Explain Duties of
                                      5                                                          A        A          -         -
AFSC
1.4.2. Explain
                                      5                                                          A        B          -         -
Responsibilities of AFSC
1.4.3. AFSC Core
                                      -                                                          -        A          -         -
Competencies
1.4.4. Qualifications                 -                                                          -         -         -         -
1.4.5. Customer Relations             5                                                          -         -         -         -
2. RISK MANAGEMENT
(RM)
TR: AFIs 90-802, 91-203, 91-
302
2.1. Air Force Consolidated
Occupational Safety                   5                                                          A        A          -         -
Instructions for AFSC
2.2. Hazards of the AFSC              5                                                          A        A          -         -
2.3. Practice Safety
Precautions
2.3.1. Maintenance Actions            5                                                         2b         -         -         -
2.3.2. Energized Equipment            5                                                         2b         -         -         -
3. UTILIZE PUBLICATIONS
AND DIRECTIVES
TR: AFIs 33-Series; AF
Records Distribution System;
http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/
3.1. Use Publications When
                                      5                                                         2b         -         -         -
Performing Work
4. OBTAIN INFORMATION
ASSURANCE TECHNICAL
(IAT) LEVEL II /
INFORMATION
ASSURANCE
MANAGEMENT (IAM)
LEVEL I CERTIFICATION (or
higher level certification, see
DISA IASE website:
http://iase.disa.mil/eta/iawip/)

4.1. Security+ Certification
TR: 3DXXX – CTS
                                      -                                                          -         -         -         -
E3ATR3DXXX 00AC
See Note 8




                                                                   41                                          Attachment 2
                                                                                                                3D1X2 STS


                                                                                              4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                    3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                 2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                            3
                                     &                                                                5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                               A       B        C           D          E        SKILL
                                 WARTIME                                                              LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
REFERENCES                                                                                   LEVEL
                                  TASKS
                                                                       TRAINE
                                           START   STOP   TRAINEE                CERTIFIER
                                           DATE    DATE   INITIALS
                                                                          R
                                                                                  INITIALS   Course    CDC        OJT       OJT
                                                                      INITIALS
5. AIR FORCE COMPUTER
BASED TRAINING (Note 1)
TR:
https://www.my.af.mil/faf/FAF/
fafHome.jsp (Under AF e-
Learning)
5.1. 3D1XX Common
Fundamentals Training
Tracks
5.1.1. Introduction to
Telecommunications                  5                                                          -         -         -         -
(72111_ENG)
5.1.2. Introduction to Signals
and Signal Transmission             5                                                          -         -         -         -
(84650 ENG)
5.1.3. Introduction to
Communications Methods
                                    5                                                          -         -         -         -
and Equipment (110725
ENG)
5.1.4. CompTIA Network+
2009: Network Fundamentals          5                                                          -         -         -         -
(cs_ctnt_a01_it_enus)
5.1.5. Techniques for
Improved Time Management            5                                                          -         -         -         -
(pd_01_a02_bs_enus)
5.1.6. CompTIA Network+
2009: Wide Area Networks            5                                                          -         -         -         -
(cs_ctnt_a06_it_enus)
5.1.7. Project Management
Overview                            7                                                          -         -         -         -
(proj_05_a02_bs_enus)
5.1.8. Project Management
Process Groups                      7                                                          -         -         -         -
(proj_05_a03_bs_enus)
5.1.9. Integrated Initiation
and Planning                        7                                                          -         -         -         -
(proj_06_a01_bs_enus)
5.1.10. Integrated Project
Execution, Monitoring, and
                                    7                                                          -         -         -         -
Control
(proj_06_a02_bs_enus)
5.1.11. Integrated Project
Change Control and Close            7                                                          -         -         -         -
(proj_06_a03_bs_enus)
5.1.12. Risk Management
Planning                            7                                                          -         -         -         -
(proj_13_a01_bs_enus)
5.2. 3D1X2 Cyber Transport
Systems Track
5.2.1. Establishing a Baseline
                                    5                                                          -         -         -         -
(118128_eng)
5.2.2. Determining an
Effective Troubleshooting           5                                                          -         -         -         -
Strategy (118129_eng)
5.2.3. Addressing Problems
at the Physical and Data-link       5                                                          -         -         -         -
Layers (118130_eng)
5.2.4. Resolving Problems at
the Network Layer                   7                                                          -         -         -         -
(118131_eng)




                                                                 42                                          Attachment 2
                                                                                                                3D1X2 STS


                                                                                              4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                    3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                 2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                            3
                                     &                                                                5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                               A       B        C           D          E        SKILL
                                 WARTIME                                                              LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
REFERENCES                                                                                   LEVEL
                                  TASKS
                                                                       TRAINE
                                           START   STOP   TRAINEE                CERTIFIER
                                           DATE    DATE   INITIALS
                                                                          R
                                                                                  INITIALS   Course    CDC        OJT       OJT
                                                                      INITIALS
5.2.5. Resolving Problems at
the Transport and Application       -                                                          -         -         -         -
Layers (118132_eng)
5.2.6. Implementing
Switching in the Network            -                                                          -         -         -         -
(119265_eng)
5.2.7. Configuring VLANs
                                    -                                                          -         -         -         -
and VTP (119266_eng)
5.2.8. Implementing
Spanning Tree Protocol              -                                                          -         -         -         -
(119267_eng)
5.2.9. Implementing
Multilayer Switching in the         -                                                          -         -         -         -
Network (119269_eng)
5.2.10. Improving Availability
on Multilayer Switched              -                                                          -         -         -         -
Networks (119270_eng)
5.2.11. Examining Cisco
AVVID Services and                  -                                                          -         -         -         -
Applications (119271_eng)
5.2.12. Implementing QoS in
Multilayer Switched Networks        -                                                          -         -         -         -
(119272_eng)
5.2.13. Optimizing and
Securing Multilayer Switched        -                                                          -         -         -         -
Networks (119273_eng)
5.2.14. Routing Protocols
                                    5                                                          -         -         -         -
(119556_eng)
5.2.15. Designing Cisco IP
Telephony Solutions                 -                                                          -         -         -         -
(121375_eng)
5.2.16. Configuring Cisco
Catalyst Switch Operations          -                                                          -         -         -         -
(124874_eng)
5.2.17. Routing in Cisco
                                    -                                                          -         -         -         -
Networks (124875_eng)
5.2.18. Implementing Routing
Protocols on Cisco Networks         -                                                          -         -         -         -
(124876_eng)
5.2.19. Managing IP Traffic
on Cisco Networks                   -                                                          -         -         -         -
(124877_eng)
5.2.20. Extending a Cisco
Network to a WAN                    -                                                          -         -         -         -
(124878_eng)
5.2.21. Completing ISDN
Calls on Cisco Networks             -                                                          -         -         -         -
(125065_eng)
5.2.22. Network Discovery
and Neighbor Device                 -                                                          -         -         -         -
Connections (125489_eng)
5.2.23. Cisco Internetwork
Troubleshooting - Introduction      -                                                          -         -         -         -
(40504_eng)
5.2.24. Applying Cisco
Troubleshooting Tools               -                                                          -         -         -         -
(40509_eng)




                                                                 43                                          Attachment 2
                                                                                                                3D1X2 STS


                                                                                              4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                    3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                 2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                            3
                                     &                                                                5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                               A       B        C           D          E        SKILL
                                 WARTIME                                                              LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
REFERENCES                                                                                   LEVEL
                                  TASKS
                                                                       TRAINE
                                           START   STOP   TRAINEE                CERTIFIER
                                           DATE    DATE   INITIALS
                                                                          R
                                                                                  INITIALS   Course    CDC        OJT       OJT
                                                                      INITIALS
5.2.25. Diagnosing and
Correcting Campus Problems
                                    -                                                          -         -         -         -
in a Cisco Internetwork
(40513_eng)
5.2.26. Diagnosing and
Correcting Switch and VLAN
                                    -                                                          -         -         -         -
Problems in a Cisco
Internetwork (40517_eng)
5.2.27. Diagnosing and
Correcting WAN Problems in
                                    -                                                          -         -         -         -
a Cisco Internetwork
(40522_eng)
5.2.28. Telecommunications
                                    5                                                          -         -         -         -
Essentials (72123_eng)
5.2.29. Computer Telephony
                                    5                                                          -         -         -         -
Integration (73383_eng)
5.2.30. Introduction to ISDN
                                    5                                                          -         -         -         -
(74051_eng)
5.2.31. ISDN Protocols
                                    5                                                          -         -         -         -
(74052_eng)
5.2.32. Digital Subscriber
                                    -                                                          -         -         -         -
Line (74054_eng)
5.2.33. LDAP Fundamentals
                                    -                                                          -         -         -         -
(85776_eng)
5.2.34. Intro to IPv6
                                    5                                                          -         -         -         -
(80284_eng)
6. MAINTENANCE
PRACTICES
TR: TO 33K-1-100 and
Applicable Test Equipment
Technical Orders
6.1. Test Equipment
6.1.1. Oscilloscope (O-            -
                                                                                              A         A          -         -
Scope)
                                   5                                                          A         A          -         -
6.1.2. Multimeter
6.1.3. Local Area Network
(LAN) Test Set
6.1.3.1. LAN Test Set              -
                                                                                              A         -          -         -
Fundamentals
6.1.3.2. Operate LAN Test          -
                                                                                              2b        -          -         -
Set
6.1.4. Optical Time Domain         5
                                                                                              A         A          -         -
Reflectometer (OTDR)
6.1.5. Time Domain                 -
                                                                                              A         A          -         -
Reflectometer (TDR)
6.1.6. Bit Error Rate Test Set
(BERT)
                                   -                                                          A         B          -         -
6.1.6.1. BERT Fundamentals
                                   -                                                          2b        -          -         -
6.1.6.2. Operate BERT
                                   -                                                           -        -          -         -
6.1.7. Spectrum Analyzer
6.1.8. Network/Protocol
Analyzer (Sniffer)
                                   5                                                          A         B          -         -
6.1.8.1. Sniffer Fundamentals
                                   -                                                          2b        -          -         -
6.1.8.2. Operate Sniffer
                                   -                                                          A         A          -         -
6.1.9. Breakout Box



                                                                 44                                          Attachment 2
                                                                                                                3D1X2 STS


                                                                                              4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                    3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                 2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                            3
                                     &                                                                5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                               A       B        C           D          E        SKILL
                                 WARTIME                                                              LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
REFERENCES                                                                                   LEVEL
                                  TASKS
                                                                       TRAINE
                                           START   STOP   TRAINEE                CERTIFIER
                                           DATE    DATE   INITIALS
                                                                          R
                                                                                  INITIALS   Course    CDC          OJT     OJT
                                                                      INITIALS
                                   -                                                           -        -            -       -
6.1.10. Audio Oscillator
                                   -                                                           -        -            -       -
6.1.11. Vibraground Meter
6.1.12. Frequency (Freq)           -
                                                                                               -        -            -       -
Generator
6.1.13. Fiber Optic Test Set       -
                                                                                              A         -            -       -
(Light Source)
6.1.14. Telephone Test Set
6.1.14.1. Telephone Test Set       -
                                                                                              A         -            -       -
Fundamentals
6.1.14.2. Operate Telephone        -
                                                                                              2b        -            -       -
Test Set
6.1.15. Inductive Amplifier &
Tone Generator
6.1.15.1. Inductive Amplifier      -
& Tone Generator                                                                              A         -            -       -
Fundamentals
6.1.15.2. Operate Inductive        -
                                                                                              2b        -            -       -
Amplifier & Tone Generator
6.1.16. ISDN Telephone Test        -
                                                                                              A         -            -       -
Set
6.1.17. ADSL Telephone             -                                                                                 -       -
                                                                                              A         -
Test Set
6.2. Specialized Tools
TR: Applicable Technical
Publications; MPTOs 00-25-
234-WA-1 and 31-1-141-15
6.2.1. Impact Tool
6.2.1.1. Impact Tool               5                                                                            -            -
                                                                                              A         -
Fundamentals
                                   5                                                          2b        -            -       -
6.2.1.2. Use Impact Tool
                                   -                                                          A         -            -       -
6.2.2. Amphenol Tool
6.2.3. Wire Wrap
Tool/Unwrap Tool
6.2.3.1. Wire Wrap                 -                                                                                 -       -
Tool/Unwrap Tool                                                                              A         -
Fundamentals
6.2.3.2. Use Wire Wrap             -                                                                                 -       -
                                                                                              2b        -
Tool/Unwrap Tool
6.2.4. Modular Crimp Tool
6.2.4.1. Modular Crimp Tool        -
                                                                                              A         -            -       -
Fundamentals
6.2.4.2. Use Modular Crimp         -
                                                                                              2b        -            -       -
Tool
6.2.5. Single Pin Crimp Tool
6.2.5.1. Single Pin Crimp          -
                                                                                              A         -            -       -
Tool Fundamentals
6.2.5.2. Use Single Pin Crimp      -
                                                                                              2b        -            -       -
Tool
                                   -                                                          A         -            -       -
6.2.6. Fusion Splicer
6.2.7. Pin Extractor/Insertion
6.2.7.1. Pin                       -
Extractor/Insertion                                                                           A         -            -       -
Fundamentals




                                                                 45                                          Attachment 2
                                                                                                                  3D1X2 STS


                                                                                                4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                     3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                   INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                 2. CORE                                                                  PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                              3
                                     &                                                                  5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                                A       B         C           D          E        SKILL
                                 WARTIME                                                                LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
REFERENCES                                                                                     LEVEL
                                  TASKS
                                                                         TRAINE
                                           START    STOP    TRAINEE                CERTIFIER
                                           DATE     DATE    INITIALS
                                                                            R
                                                                                    INITIALS   Course    CDC        OJT       OJT
                                                                        INITIALS
6.2.7.2. Use Pin                   -
                                                                                                2b        -          -         -
Extractor/Insertion
                                   -                                                             -        -          -         -
6.2.8. Splice Tool (Copper)
                                   -                                                             -        -          -         -
6.2.9. Fiber Hot Melt Kit
6.2.10. Fiber Mechanical           -
                                                                                                 -        -          -         -
Terminator Kit
6.2.11. Cable Butting Tool
6.2.11.1. Cable Butting Tool       -
                                                                                                A         -          -         -
Fundamentals
6.2.11.2. Use Cable Butting        -
                                                                                                2b        -          -         -
Tool
6.2.12. Wire Stripper
6.2.12.1 Wire Stripper             -
                                                                                                A         -          -         -
Fundamentals
                                   -                                                            2b        -          -         -
6.2.12.2. Use Wire Stripper
                                   -                                                            A         -          -         -
6.2.13. Spudger
6.2.14. Electrician Scissors
6.2.14.1. Electrician Scissors     -
                                                                                                A         -          -         -
Fundamentals
6.2.14.2. Use Electrician          -
                                                                                                2b        -          -         -
Scissors
                                   -                                                               A        -        -          -
6.2.15. Diagonal Cutter
6.3. Standard Maintenance Concepts
TR: AFI 32-1065; MIL-STD 2000A, American Public Works Association Policy and American National St; MPTOs 00-25-234-WA-1, 31-10-7-WA-
1, 31-10-11-WA-1, 31-10-13, 31-10-24-WA-1, 31-1-141-1-WA-1, and 31W3-10-20; MIL-STD-1678-1 W/Change 1
6.3.1. Standards
6.3.1.1. Commercial (e.g.          -
                                                                                                 -        -          -         -
IEEE, EIA, NIST)
                                   -                                                             -        -          -         -
6.3.1.2. Military
6.3.1.3. International (e.g.       -
ITU, ISO (7498-4), CEPT,                                                                         -        -          -         -
ETSI)
6.3.2. Grounding
6.3.2.1. Grounding                 -
                                                                                                B         B
Fundamentals
6.3.2.2. Verify Proper             5
Grounding (i.e.                                                                                 2b        -          -         -
Equipment/Rack)
                                   -                                                            A         A          -         -
6.3.3. Bonding
                                   -                                                             -        A          -         -
6.3.4. Shielding
                                   -                                                            A         A          -         -
6.3.5. Lightning Protection
6.3.6. Record Keeping (i.e.        -
                                                                                                A         A          -         -
Master Station Log)
6.3.7. Circuit/Cable ID and        5
                                                                                                A         A          -         -
Marking
6.3.8. Color Coding (e.g. 25       5
                                                                                                A         B          -         -
pair color code)
6.3.9. Physical Medium             -
Standards (e.g.                                                                                 A         -          -         -
RS232/RS530)




                                                                   46                                          Attachment 2
                                                                                                                 3D1X2 STS


                                                                                               4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                     3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                  2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                             3
                                      &                                                                5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                                A       B        C           D          E        SKILL
                                  WARTIME                                                              LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
REFERENCES                                                                                    LEVEL
                                   TASKS
                                                                        TRAINE
                                            START   STOP   TRAINEE                CERTIFIER
                                            DATE    DATE   INITIALS
                                                                           R
                                                                                   INITIALS   Course    CDC        OJT       OJT
                                                                       INITIALS
6.3.10.
Inventory/Accountability
6.3.10.1                            -
Inventory/Accountability                                                                       A         -          -         -
Fundamentals
                                    -                                                          2b        -          -         -
6.3.10.2. Perform Inventories
6.3.11. Electrostatic
Discharge (ESD)
TR: AFQTP3DXXX-202A
Electrostatic Discharge
Handbook
                                    5                                                          A         A          -         -
6.3.11.1. Fundamentals
                                    5                                                           -        A          -         -
6.3.11.2. Concepts
6.3.11.3. Handling,                 5
                                                                                                -        -          -         -
Packaging, and Storing
                                    7                                                          A         A          -         -
6.3.12. Inspections (PMI)
                                    -                                                          A         -          -         -
6.3.13. Reporting
6.3.14. Troubleshooting
6.3.14.1. Troubleshooting           -
                                                                                               A         -          -         -
Fundamentals
6.3.14.2. Troubleshoot              -
Network Equipment (IP Data,
                                                                                               2b        -          -         -
Voice, Video, Multiplexing,
i.e.)
6.3.15. Explain Land Line           -
                                                                                               A         -          -         -
Concepts
6.3.16. Authorized Service          -
                                                                                               A         -          -         -
Interruptions (ASIs)
6.4. Installation
                                    5                                                          A         A          -         -
6.4.1. Installation Standards
6.4.2. Cable/Fiber Installation
6.4.2.1. Cable/Fiber                5
                                                                                               A         A          -         -
Installation Fundamentals
                                    5                                                          A         A          -         -
6.4.2.2. Cable Management
6.4.2.3. Demonstrate Proper         -
                                                                                               2b        -          -         -
Cable Management Practices
6.4.3. Copper Cable
termination
6.4.3.1. Copper Cable               -
                                                                                               A         -          -         -
termination Fundamentals
6.4.3.2. Terminate Copper           -
                                                                                               2b        -          -         -
Cable
                                    -                                                          A         -          -         -
6.4.4. Fiber termination
                                    -                                                          A         -          -         -
6.4.5. Equipment
                                    -                                                           -        A          -         -
6.4.6. Configuration
                                    5                                                           -        B          -         -
6.4.7. Interconnection
6.5. Downward Directed
Orders
6.5.1. Time Compliance              -
                                                                                               A         -          -         -
Technical Order (TCTOs)




                                                                  47                                          Attachment 2
                                                                                                               3D1X2 STS


                                                                                             4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                   3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                           3
                                    &                                                                5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                              A       B        C           D          E        SKILL
                                WARTIME                                                              LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
REFERENCES                                                                                  LEVEL
                                 TASKS
                                                                      TRAINE
                                          START   STOP   TRAINEE                CERTIFIER
                                          DATE    DATE   INITIALS
                                                                         R
                                                                                 INITIALS   Course    CDC        OJT       OJT
                                                                     INITIALS
6.5.2. Time Compliance            -
                                                                                             A         -          -         -
Network Order (TCNOs)
6.5.3. Notice To Airman           -
                                                                                             A         -          -         -
(NOTAMs)
7. IP NETWORKING
TR: EIA/TIA 568A/B; MIL
STD 208-154A
7.1. Internetworking Basics
7.1.1. Internetworking Basics     -
                                                                                             A         -          -         -
Fundamentals
                                  -                                                          A         B          -         -
7.1.2. OSI Reference Model
                                  -                                                          A         B          -         -
7.1.3. Topologies
7.1.4. Addressing
7.1.4.1. IPv4/IPv6
Addressing
7.1.4.1.1. IPv4/IPv6
                                  -                                                          A         B          -         -
Addressing Fundamentals
7.1.4.1.2. Develop/Apply IP
                                  -                                                          2b        -          -         -
Addressing Schema
7.1.5. Fundamentals of
                                  -                                                          A         B          -         -
Protocols
7.2. Network Types

7.2.1. Internet Protocols         -                                                          A         B          -         -

7.2.2. TCP/IP                     -                                                          A         B          -         -

7.2.3. UDP                        -                                                           -        -          -         -
7.2.4. LAN Technologies

7.2.4.1. Switching
7.2.4.1.1. Switching
                                  -                                                          B         B          -         -
Concepts
7.2.4.1.2. Configure Switches     -                                                          2b        B          -         -
7.2.4.2. Switching
                                  -                                                          B         -          -         -
Protocols/Standards
7.2.4.3. CSMA/CD                  -                                                          A         -          -         -

7.2.4.4. VLANs
7.2.4.4.1. VLANs
                                  -                                                          B         B          -         -
Fundamentals
7.2.4.4.2. Configure VLANs        -                                                          2b        B          -         -
7.2.4.5. Spanning-tree
Protocol
7.2.4.5.1. Spanning-tree
                                  -                                                          A         -          -         -
Protocol Fundamentals
7.2.4.5.2. Configure
                                  -                                                          2b        -          -         -
Spanning-tree Protocol
7.2.4.6. IEEE 802.3               -                                                          A         -          -         -
7.2.4.7. IEEE 802.1/IEEE
                                  -                                                          A         -          -         -
802.2
7.2.5. WLAN (Wireless)
7.2.5.1. Wireless                 -
                                                                                             A         -          -         -
Fundamentals



                                                                48                                          Attachment 2
                                                                                                               3D1X2 STS


                                                                                             4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                   3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                           3
                                    &                                                                5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                              A       B        C           D          E        SKILL
                                WARTIME                                                              LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
REFERENCES                                                                                  LEVEL
                                 TASKS
                                                                      TRAINE
                                          START   STOP   TRAINEE                CERTIFIER
                                          DATE    DATE   INITIALS
                                                                         R
                                                                                 INITIALS   Course    CDC        OJT       OJT
                                                                     INITIALS
7.2.5.2. Wireless                 -
                                                                                             A         -          -         -
Protocols/Standards
                                  -                                                          A         -          -         -
7.2.5.3. IEEE 802.11
7.2.5.4. Wireless Access
Points
7.2.5.4.1. Wireless Access        -
                                                                                             A         B          -         -
Points Fundamentals
7.2.5.4.2. Configure Wireless     -
                                                                                             2b        B          -         -
Access Points
7.2.6. WAN Technologies
                                  -                                                          A         -          -         -
7.2.6.1. WAN Fundamentals
7.2.6.2. Routing
7.2.6.2.1. Routing                -
                                                                                             A         B          -         -
Fundamentals
                                  -                                                          2b        B          -         -
7.2.6.2.2. Configure Routers
7.2.6.3. Bridge Virtual
Interface (BVI)
                                  -                                                          A         -          -         -
7.2.6.3.1. BVI Fundamentals
                                  -                                                          2b        -          -         -
7.2.6.3.2. Configure BVI
                                  -                                                          A         B          -         -
7.2.6.4. DTE/DCE
7.2.6.5. Routing Protocols
7.2.6.5.1. Routing Protocol       -
                                                                                             A         B          -         -
Concepts
7.2.6.5.2. Configure Routing      -
                                                                                             2b        B          -         -
Protocols in a Network
                                  -                                                          A         B          -         -
7.2.6.6. VPN Concentrators
7.2.7. Unified
Communications
                                  -                                                          A         -          -         -
7.2.7.1. SIP/H.323
7.2.7.2. Voice/Video              -
                                                                                              -        A          -         -
Compression Standards
7.2.7.3. Quality of Service
(QoS)
                                  -                                                          A         -          -         -
7.2.7.3.1. QoS Fundamentals

7.2.7.3.2. Differentiated
Services Code Point (DSCP)
7.2.7.3.2.1. DSCP                 -
                                                                                             A         -          -         -
Fundamentals
                                  -                                                          2b        -          -         -
7.2.7.3.2.2. Configure QoS
7.2.7.4 Redundancy
7.2.7.4.1. Redundancy             -
                                                                                             A         B          -         -
Fundamentals
7.2.7.4.2. Ether-Channels
7.2.7.4.2.1 Ether-Channel         -
                                                                                             A         B          -         -
Fundamentals
7.2.7.4.2.2. Configure Ether-     -
                                                                                             2b        B          -         -
Channels




                                                                49                                          Attachment 2
                                                                                                              3D1X2 STS


                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                               2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                          3
                                   &                                                                5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                             A       B        C           D          E        SKILL
                               WARTIME                                                              LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
REFERENCES                                                                                 LEVEL
                                TASKS
                                                                     TRAINE
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE                CERTIFIER
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS
                                                                        R
                                                                                INITIALS   Course    CDC        OJT       OJT
                                                                    INITIALS

7.2.8. IP Network Monitoring
                                 -                                                          A         B          -         -
7.2.8.1. SNMP
7.2.8.2. Implement IP            -
                                                                                            2b        -          -         -
Network Monitoring
7.2.9. IP Network Security
7.2.9.1. Network Equipment
Logical Security
7.2.9.1.1. Network               -
Equipment Logical Security                                                                  A         B          -         -
Concepts
7.2.9.1.2. Configure Logical     -
Security for Network                                                                        2b        B          -         -
Equipment
7.2.9.2. Network Equipment       -
                                                                                            A         B          -         -
Physical Security
8. VOICE
COMMUNICATIONS
TR: Applicable Commercial
Manuals
8.1. Telephony
8.1.1. Fundamentals of            5
                                                                                             A        B          -         -
Telephony
8.1.2. Fundamentals of            -
                                                                                             A         -         -         -
Sound
                                  -                                                          A         -         -         -
8.1.3. Frequencies
                                  -                                                          A         -         -         -
8.1.4. Amplitude
8.1.5. Transmission of Sound
8.1.5.1. Transmission of          -
                                                                                             -         -         -         -
Sound Fundamentals
                                  -                                                          A         -         -         -
8.1.5.2. Tip and Ring
8.1.5.3. Trunking
                                  -                                                          A         -         -         -
8.1.5.3.1. Trunking Concepts
                                  -                                                         2b         -         -         -
8.1.5.3.2. Configure Trunks
8.1.6. Telephone Types
                                  -                                                          A         -         -         -
8.1.6.1. POTS
                                  -                                                          A         -         -         -
8.1.6.2. Digital
                                  -                                                          A        B          -         -
8.1.6.3. ISDN
8.1.7. Telephony Switching
8.1.7.1. Telephony Switching      -
                                                                                             A        B          -         -
Concepts
                                  5                                                          -        A          -         -
8.1.7.2. Switch Security
8.1.7.3. Call Routing
8.1.7.3.1. Call Routing           -
                                                                                             A         -         -         -
Fundamentals
8.1.7.3.2. Configure Call         -
                                                                                            2b         -         -         -
routing




                                                               50                                          Attachment 2
                                                                                                               3D1X2 STS


                                                                                             4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                   3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                           3
                                    &                                                                5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                              A       B        C           D          E        SKILL
                                WARTIME                                                              LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
REFERENCES                                                                                  LEVEL
                                 TASKS
                                                                      TRAINE
                                          START   STOP   TRAINEE                CERTIFIER
                                          DATE    DATE   INITIALS
                                                                         R
                                                                                 INITIALS   Course    CDC        OJT       OJT
                                                                     INITIALS
                                   -                                                          A         -         -         -
8.1.7.4. DTR
                                   -                                                          A         -         -         -
8.1.7.5. Customer Groups
                                   -                                                          A         -         -         -
8.1.7.6. MLPP
                                   -                                                          A         -         -         -
8.1.7.7. Class of Service
                                   -                                                          A         -         -         -
8.1.7.8. DSN
                                   -                                                          A         -         -         -
8.1.7.9. Translations
8.1.8. Program Telephony           -
                                                                                             2b         -         -         -
Features
                                   -                                                          A         -         -         -
8.1.9. 911/E-911
8.1.10. Direct Inward Dialing      -
                                                                                              A         -         -         -
(DID)
                                   -                                                          A         -         -         -
8.1.11. Caller-ID
8.1.12. Video                      -
                                                                                              A         -         -         -
Teleconferencing (VTC)
8.1.13. Voice over IP/Voice
over Secure IP (VoIP/VoSIP)
8.1.13.1. VoIP/VoSIP               -
                                                                                              A         -         -         -
Fundamentals
8.1.13.2. Configure Voice          -
                                                                                             2b         -         -         -
Over IP
8.1.14. Private Base               -
                                                                                              A        A          -         -
Exchange (PBX)
8.1.15. Secure Voice
Networks
8.1.15.1. Establish Secure         -
                                                                                             2b         -         -         -
Voice Network
8.1.15.2. Secure Terminal          -
                                                                                              -         -         -         -
Equipment
9. VISUAL INFORMATION
AND INTRUSION
DETECTION SYSTEMS
(VIIDS)
TR: Applicable Equipment
Manuals
9.1. Video
9.1.1. Fundamentals of Video
Systems
                                   -                                                          A         -         -         -
9.1.1.1. Media Formats
                                   -                                                          A        A          -         -
9.1.1.2. Analog Video
                                   -                                                          A        A          -         -
9.1.1.3. Digital Video
                                   -                                                          A         -         -         -
9.1.1.4. Analog Audio
                                   -                                                          A        A          -         -
9.1.1.5. Digital Audio
9.1.1.6. Video Editor              -
                                                                                              -         -         -         -
Systems
9.1.1.7. Video Cameras
                                   -                                                          A         -         -         -
9.1.1.7.1. Camera Types
                                   -                                                          A         -         -         -
9.1.1.7.2. Camera Functions




                                                                51                                          Attachment 2
                                                                                                                3D1X2 STS


                                                                                              4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                    3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                 2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                            3
                                     &                                                                5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                               A       B        C           D          E        SKILL
                                 WARTIME                                                              LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
REFERENCES                                                                                   LEVEL
                                  TASKS
                                                                       TRAINE
                                           START   STOP   TRAINEE                CERTIFIER
                                           DATE    DATE   INITIALS
                                                                          R
                                                                                  INITIALS   Course    CDC        OJT       OJT
                                                                      INITIALS
9.1.2. Video Distribution and
Display Systems
9.1.2.1. Fundamentals of
Operation
9.1.2.1.1. Video Switcher           -
                                                                                               A        A          -         -
Devices
9.1.2.1.2. Video Routing            -
                                                                                               A        A          -         -
Devices
9.1.2.1.3. Video Distribution       -
                                                                                               A        A          -         -
Amplifiers
                                    -                                                          A        A          -         -
9.1.2.1.4. Video Display Units
                                    -                                                          A         -         -         -
9.1.2.1.5. TVRO Concepts
9.1.2.1.6. Satellite                -
                                                                                               -         -         -         -
Uplink/Downlink
9.1.3. Digital Video Storage
9.1.3.1. Capabilities and           -
                                                                                               A         -         -         -
Limitations
9.2. Intrusion Detection
Systems (IDS)
TR: AFJQS 3D1X2-204DF;
Applicable Equipment
Manuals
                                    -                                                          A         -         -         -
9.2.1. IDS Fundamentals
9.2.2. IDS Equipment
9.2.2.1. Installation Security      -
                                                                                               A        A          -         -
Systems
                                    -                                                          A        A          -         -
9.2.2.2. Exterior Sensors
                                    -                                                          A        A          -         -
9.2.2.3. Interior Sensors
                                    -                                                          A        A          -         -
9.2.2.4. Annunciators
10. DISTRIBUTION
TR: DISAC 310-70-1; TOs
31-1-201 series, 31Z-10-20
10.1. Modulation
10.1.1. Modulation                  -
                                                                                               -        A          -         -
Fundamentals
10.1.2. Amplitude Modulation        -
                                                                                               -        A          -         -
(AM)
10.1.3. Frequency                   -
                                                                                               -        A          -         -
Modulation (FM)
                                    -                                                          -        A          -         -
10.1.4. Phase Modulation
                                    -                                                          -        A          -         -
10.1.5. PSK
                                    -                                                          -         -         -         -
10.1.6. QAM
                                    -                                                          -         -         -         -
10.1.7. FSK
                                    -                                                          -        A          -         -
10.1.8. PCM
10.2. Multiplexing
10.2.1. Multiplexing                -
                                                                                               A        A          -         -
Fundamentals
10.2.2. Configure a                 -
                                                                                              2b         -         -         -
Multiplexer




                                                                 52                                          Attachment 2
                                                                                                              3D1X2 STS


                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                               2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                          3
                                   &                                                                5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                             A       B        C           D          E        SKILL
                               WARTIME                                                              LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
REFERENCES                                                                                 LEVEL
                                TASKS
                                                                     TRAINE
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE                CERTIFIER
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS
                                                                        R
                                                                                INITIALS   Course    CDC        OJT       OJT
                                                                    INITIALS

10.2.3. Timing
                                  -                                                          A        B          -         -
10.2.3.1. GPS
                                  -                                                          A        B          -         -
10.2.3.2. Atomic Clock
                                  -                                                          A        B          -         -
10.2.3.3. Crystal Oscillator
                                  -                                                          A        B          -         -
10.2.3.4. Stratum Levels
                                  -                                                         2b         -         -         -
10.2.3.5. Configure Timing
10.2.4. Cell/Packet Based         -
Multiplexing (ATM/Frame                                                                      A         -         -         -
Relay)
10.2.5. Frequency Division        -
                                                                                             A         -         -         -
Multiplexing (FDM)
10.2.6. TDM (Time Division        -
                                                                                             A         -         -         -
Multiplexing)
10.2.7. Wave Division (WDM)       -
                                                                                             -         -         -         -
Multiplexing
10.2.8. Signaling
TR: MIL-STD 208-154; TO
31-1-201-3
                                  -                                                          A        B          -         -
10.2.8.1. Analog
                                  -                                                          A        B          -         -
10.2.8.2. Digital
                                  -                                                          A        A          -         -
10.2.8.3. Synchronous
                                  -                                                          A        A          -         -
10.2.8.4. Asynchronous
10.2.8.5. Framing
                                  -                                                          A         -         -         -
10.2.8.5.1. Super Frame (SF)
10.2.8.5.2. Extended Super
Frame (ESF)
                                  -                                                          A         -         -         -
10.2.8.5.2.1. ESF Concepts
                                  -                                                         2b         -         -         -
10.2.8.5.2.2. Utilize ESF
10.2.8.6. Line Coding
10.2.8.6.1. B8ZS
10.2.8.6.1.1. B8ZS                -
                                                                                             A        B          -         -
Fundamentals
                                  -                                                         2b         -         -         -
10.2.8.6.1.2. Utilize B8ZS
                                  -                                                          A        B          -         -
10.2.8.6.2. AMI
10.2.9. Companding
                                  -                                                          A         -         -         -
10.2.9.1. Define Companding
                                  -                                                          A         -         -         -
10.2.9.2. A-law
                                  -                                                          A         -         -         -
10.2.9.3. U-law
10.2.10. Trunking
                                  -                                                          -         -         -         -
10.2.10.1. Trunking Concepts
                                  -                                                          A        A          -         -
10.2.10.2. Bandwidth
                                  -                                                          A         -         -         -
10.2.10.3. DS0s



                                                               53                                          Attachment 2
                                                                                                                3D1X2 STS


                                                                                              4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                    3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                 2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                            3
                                     &                                                                5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                               A       B        C           D          E        SKILL
                                 WARTIME                                                              LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
REFERENCES                                                                                   LEVEL
                                  TASKS
                                                                       TRAINE
                                           START   STOP   TRAINEE                CERTIFIER
                                           DATE    DATE   INITIALS
                                                                          R
                                                                                  INITIALS   Course    CDC        OJT       OJT
                                                                      INITIALS
                                    -                                                          A         -         -         -
10.2.10.4. T-Carrier
                                    -                                                          A         -         -         -
10.2.10.5. O-Carrier
10.3. Copper Distribution
10.3.1. Copper Distribution         -
                                                                                               A        B          -         -
Fundamentals
10.3.2. Horizontal/Vertical/66      -
                                                                                               A         -         -         -
Block/110 Block
10.4. Fiber Distribution
10.4.1. Fiber Distribution          -
                                                                                               A        B          -         -
Fundamentals
                                    -                                                         2b         -
10.4.2. Fiber Patching
10.4.3. Describe the                -
Principles of Light Wave                                                                       -         -         -         -
Communications
10.4.4. Describe the                -
Principles of Fiber Optic                                                                      -         -         -         -
Modem Operation
10.4.5. Describe the                -
Principles of Fiber Optic                                                                      -         -         -         -
Multiplexer Operation
10.4.6. Describe the Types          -
and Applications of Fiber                                                                      -         -         -         -
Optic Connectors
10.4.7. Describe the                -
Principles of Single Mode                                                                      -         -         -         -
Fiber Optic Cable
10.4.8. Describe the                -
Principles of Multimode Fiber                                                                  -         -         -         -
Optic Cable
10.5. Long-haul
Communications
10.5.1. Patching
                                    -                                                          A         -         -         -
10.5.1.1. Patching Concepts
                                    -                                                         2b         -         -         -
10.5.1.2. Perform Patching
10.5.2. Cyber Transport             -
Systems Role in Global                                                                         A         -         -         -
Information Grid (GIG)
11. NETWORK
MANAGEMENT
TR: AFI 63-101; 33-115 Vol
1; Applicable DISAC 300 and
310 series
11.1. IT Documentation
11.1.1 Fundamentals of IT           -
                                                                                               A        B          -         -
Documentation
11.1.2. Perform IT                  -
                                                                                              2b        B          -         -
Documentation
11.1.3. CIPS                        -                                                          A         -         -         -
11.2. Configuration
Management




                                                                 54                                          Attachment 2
                                                                                                              3D1X2 STS


                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                               2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                          3
                                   &                                                                5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                             A       B        C           D          E        SKILL
                               WARTIME                                                              LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
REFERENCES                                                                                 LEVEL
                                TASKS
                                                                     TRAINE
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE                CERTIFIER
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS
                                                                        R
                                                                                INITIALS   Course    CDC        OJT       OJT
                                                                    INITIALS
11.2.1. Configuration             -
Management Concepts (i.e.
Documentation, Configuration
                                                                                             A         -         -         -
Change Management,
Equipment Configurations,
etc.)
11.2.2. Contingency Plans
(e.g. Backup, Restoral,
Recovery)
11.2.2.1. Develop                 7                                                          -         -         -         -
11.2.2.2. Implement               5                                                          -         -         -         -
11.2.3. Communication             5
                                                                                             A         -         -         -
Requirements Process
11.2.4. Security Technical        5
Implementation Guides                                                                        A         -         -         -
(STIGs)
11.2.5. Gateway Access            -
Request/Gateway Access                                                                       A         -         -         -
Authorization (GAR/GAA)
11.3. Circuit Actions
11.3.1. Circuit Action            -
                                                                                             A        A          -         -
Responsibilities
11.3.2. Node Site                 -
                                                                                             A        A          -         -
Coordinator
11.3.3. Authorized Service        7
Interruptions (ASI)
                                                                                             -         -         -         -
TR: DISAC 310-70-1, AFI 33-
138, AFI 10-701
11.3.4. Hazardous                 7
Conditions (HAZCON)
                                                                                             -         -         -         -
TR: DISAC 310-70-1, AFI 33-
138, AFI 10-701
11.3.5. Completion Reports
11.3.5.1. Ineffective Report      -                                                          A        A          -         -
11.3.5.2. Delayed Service         -
                                                                                             A        A          -         -
Report
11.3.5.3. Acceptance Report       -                                                          A        A          -         -
11.3.5.4. Exception Report        -                                                          -        A          -         -
11.3.6. Defense Information       -
                                                                                             A         -         -         -
Systems Agency (DISA)
11.3.7. DISA Coordination         -                                                          -         -         -         -
11.3.8. DISA Circulars            -                                                          A         -         -         -
11.3.9. Circuit History           -
                                                                                             A         -         -         -
Folders
11.3.10.
Procurement/Change
Requests
TR: DISAC 310-70-1
11.3.10.1. Circuit
11.3.10.1.1. Procurement/         -
                                                                                             A         -         -         -
Change Process
11.3.10.1.2.                      -
Telecommunications Service                                                                   A         -         -         -
Requests (TSRs)



                                                               55                                          Attachment 2
                                                                                                              3D1X2 STS


                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                               2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                          3
                                   &                                                                5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                             A       B        C           D          E        SKILL
                               WARTIME                                                              LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
REFERENCES                                                                                 LEVEL
                                TASKS
                                                                     TRAINE
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE                CERTIFIER
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS
                                                                        R
                                                                                INITIALS   Course    CDC        OJT       OJT
                                                                    INITIALS
11.3.10.1.3.                      -
Telecommunications Service                                                                   A        A          -         -
Order (TSOs)
11.3.11. Telecommunications       -
                                                                                             A        A          -         -
Service Priority (TSPs)
11.3.12. Command                  -
Communication Service                                                                        A        A          -         -
Designator (CCSDs)
11.3.13. Maintenance
Tracking Software
11.3.13.1. Maintenance            -
Tracking Software
                                                                                             A         -         -         -
Fundamentals (i.e. FACIT,
TCOSS, Remedy)
11.3.13.2. Use Tracking           -
Software (i.e. FACIT, TCOSS,                                                                2b         -         -         -
Remedy)
11.3.14. Communications
Network Trend Analysis
11.3.14.1. Identify               -                                                          -        B          -         -
11.3.14.2. Analyze                -                                                          -        B          -         -
11.3.15. Service Level            -
                                                                                             A        A          -         -
Agreements (SLAs)
11.3.16. PSA                      -                                                          -        A          -         -
12. INFORMATION
PROTECTION
OPERATIONS
TR: ACP 122; AFH 31-602;
AFIs, 10-701, 33-102, 33-115
Vols 1, 2, & 3, 33-202, 33-
203, 33-204, 33-207, 33-332;
AFPD 31-2; AFTTP 3-1.36 (S)
Classified
12.1. Information Protection      -
                                                                                             A        A          -         -
Principles
                                  -                                                          A         -         -         -
12.2. Rules of Engagement
12.3. Assessment and              -
                                                                                             A         -         -         -
Authorization
                                  -                                                          A         -         -         -
12.4. Event Response
12.5. Security Patch              -
                                                                                             -         -         -         -
Implementation
12.6. Malicious Logic             -
                                                                                             A         -         -         -
Protection
12.7. Defense in Depth
TR: AFDD 2-5; AFTTP 3-
1.36(S)(Classified) CJCSM
6510.01 (enclosure B)
                                  5                                                          A         -         -         -
12.7.1. Concept
                                  -                                                          A         -         -         -
12.7.2. Steps
12.8. Information
Assurance/Defense Cyber
Operation (IA/DCO)
12.8.1. Boundary Protection
                                  -                                                          A        B          -         -
12.8.1.1. Principles




                                                               56                                          Attachment 2
                                                                                                              3D1X2 STS


                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                               2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                          3
                                   &                                                                5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                             A       B        C           D          E        SKILL
                               WARTIME                                                              LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
REFERENCES                                                                                 LEVEL
                                TASKS
                                                                     TRAINE
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE                CERTIFIER
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS
                                                                        R
                                                                                INITIALS   Course    CDC        OJT       OJT
                                                                    INITIALS
                                  -                                                          A        B          -         -
12.8.1.2. IP Firewalls
                                  -                                                          A        B          -         -
12.8.2. Intrusion Detection
                                  -                                                          A        B          -         -
12.8.3. Misuse Detection
                                  -                                                          A        B          -         -
12.8.4. Internal Control
                                  -                                                          A        B          -         -
12.8.5. Access Prevention
                                  -                                                          A        B          -         -
12.8.6. Authentication
                                  -                                                          A        B          -         -
12.8.7. Encryption
12.8.8. Network                   -
                                                                                             A        B          -         -
Vulnerabilities/Mitigation
12.9. Voice Protection            -
                                                                                             A        B          -         -
System (VPS)
12.10. COMmunications
SECurity (COMSEC)
TR: AFSSI 3017 (KIV-7),
AFSSI 3013, AFSSI 3035
(TACLANE)
                                  5                                                          B         -         -         -
12.10.1. COMSEC Principals
                                  5                                                          A        B          -         -
12.10.2. Red/Back
12.10.3. Perform COMSEC           -
                                                                                            2b         -         -         -
Inventory
12.10.4. Over the Air Rekey       -
                                                                                            2b         -         -         -
(OTAR)
12.10.5. Perform Key              -
Transfer Using Common Fill                                                                  2b         -         -         -
Device
12.10.6. EMSEC                   -
                                                                                             -        B          -         -
Suppression Techniques
13. CRITICAL
COMMUNICATIONS
FACILITIES POWER
SYSTEMS
TR: Applicable Equipment
Manuals
13.1. Uninterrupted Power         5
                                                                                             A        A          -         -
Supplies (UPS)
13.2. Facility Battery            -
                                                                                             A        A          -         -
Backups
                                  -                                                          A         -         -         -
13.3. Rectifiers
                                  -                                                          A         -         -         -
13.4. Inverters
                                  -                                                          A        A          -         -
13.5. Generators
14.
ENCRYPTION/DECRYPTION
TR: Applicable Equipment
Manuals
14.1. Crypto Devices
14.1.1. Describe Crypto           -
                                                                                             A         -         -         -
Devices
14.1.2. Configure/Use Serial      -
                                                                                            2b         -         -         -
Crypto Equipment
14.1.3. Configure/Use IP          -
                                                                                            2b         -         -         -
Crypto Equipment




                                                               57                                          Attachment 2
                                                                                                              3D1X2 STS


                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                               2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                          3
                                   &                                                                5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                             A       B        C           D          E        SKILL
                               WARTIME                                                              LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
REFERENCES                                                                                 LEVEL
                                TASKS
                                                                     TRAINE
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE                CERTIFIER
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS
                                                                        R
                                                                                INITIALS   Course    CDC        OJT       OJT
                                                                    INITIALS
                                  -                                                          A         -         -         -
14.2. Fundamentals
14.3. Secure a Wireless           -
                                                                                            2b         -         -         -
Access Point
14.4. Crypto Keys
14.4.1. Pre-Placed Key            -
                                                                                             A         -         -         -
(PPK)
14.4.2. Firefly Vector Set        -
                                                                                             A         -         -         -
(FFVS)
15. EXPEDITIONARY
COMMUNICATIONS
CONCEPTS
TR: Applicable Equipment
Manuals
15.1. Establish IP Network
15.1.1. Secure                    -                                                         2b         -         -         -
15.1.2. Non-Secure                -                                                         2b         -         -         -
15.2. Establish Voice
Network
15.2.1. Secure                    -                                                         2b         -         -         -
15.2.2. Non-Secure                -                                                         2b         -         -         -
15.3. Establish Long Haul         -
                                                                                            2b         -         -         -
Network
16. AIR FORCE JOB
QUALIFICATION
STANDARDS APPLICABLE
TO 3DXXX AFSCs
TR: AFIS 33-150, 33-154;
MPTO 00-33A-1001; CFETP
3D1X2
16.1. AFJQS3DXXX-200TBA
Training Business Area (TBA)      5                                                          -         -         -         -
Handbook




                                                               58                                          Attachment 2
Section B - Course Objective List
4. Measurement. Each objective is indicated as follows: W indicates task or subject
knowledge which is measured using a written test, PC indicates required task performance which
is measured with a performance progress check and PC/W indicates separate measurement of
both knowledge and performance elements using a written test and a progress check.
5. Standard. The standard is 70% on written examinations. Standards for performance
measurement are indicated in the objective and delineated on the individual progress checklist.
Instructor assistance is provided as needed during the progress check and students may be
required to repeat all or part of the behavior until satisfactory performance is attained.
6. Proficiency Level. Most task performance is taught to the “2b” proficiency level which
means the student can do most parts of the task, but does need assistance on the hardest parts of
the task (partially proficient). The student can also determine step by step procedures for doing
the task.
Section C - Support Materials
7. The following list of support materials is not all-inclusive; however, it covers the most
frequently referenced areas. The most current products can be found at the 81 TRSS/TSQ
webpage and are available for download from the web site at
https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/20946/AFKN_Docs/Forms/AllItems.aspx. Procedures for requesting
product development are found in AFI 33-154.
Generic AFJQSs/AFQTPs applicable to AFSC 3D1X2:
Publication No.             Pseudo File       Publication Title
AFJQS3D1X2-200CH                 N/A          Infrastructure Technician
AFJQS3D1X2-200H                  N/A          Theater Deployable Communications Infrastructure
AFJQS3D1X2-201B                  N/A          Promina 800, 400 and 200 Multiservice Access
                                              Platform
AFJQS3D1X2-201TB                 N/A          Modular Control Equipment
AFJQS3D1X2-204DF                 N/A          BISS Familiarization
AFJQS3D1X2-204DG                 N/A          AN/GSS-37(V) Restricted Area Anti-Intrusion
                                              Alarm Set
AFJQS3D1X2-204DK                 N/A          AN/GGS-42 Exterior Intrusion Detection System
AFJQS3D1X2-204DL                 N/A          AN/GSS-39(V) Interior Intrusion Detection
                                              Systems (IIDS)
AFJQS3D1X2-                      N/A          Weapons Storage Area Switch
204DM
AFJQS3D1X2-204Z                  N/A          SFC-36 TV Production System
AFJQS3D1X2-207RA                 N/A          DMS 100/200 Digital Switch Translations
AFJQS3D1X2-207RC                 N/A          DMS/MSL 100/200 Traffic Analysis
AFJQS3D1X2-208R                  N/A          DMS/MSL Digital Telephone Switching Systems
AFJQS3D1X2-208ZA                 N/A          Strategic Automated Command and Control
                                              System (SACCS)
AFJQS3D1X2-210K                  N/A          6KNZC: C-E Crypto/Computer Systems Support
AFJQS3D1X2-210X                  N/A          DE-3/DE-4 Channel Bank Maintenance



                                                59
Publication No.        Pseudo File    Publication Title
AFJQS3D1X2-211K            N/A        Avaya Definity G3 (Multi-Vantage)
Generic AFJQSs/AFQTPs applicable to 3D1XX AFSCs:
Publication No.        Pseudo File    Publication Title

AFJQS3D1XX-200F            N/A        Engineering Installation (EI) Team Chief
AFJQS3D1XX-201C            N/A        Corrosion Prevention and Control
AFJQS3D1XX-201EA           N/A        Core Automated Maintenance System with GUI
AFJQS3D1XX-201P            N/A        Work Center Test Equipment Management
AFJQS3D1XX-201X            N/A        Engineering Installation (EI) Quality Assurance
AFJQS3D1XX-204V            N/A        AN/FCC-100(V)7 & 9 Multiplexer Set
AFJQS3D1XX-205Q            N/A        AN/GRT-21/22 VHF/UHF Transmitter
AFJQS3D1XX-205R            N/A        AN/GRR-23/24, VHF/UHF Receiver
AFJQS3D1XX-205SA           N/A        AN/GRC-171(V1, AV1) UHF Transceiver and
                                      AN/GRC-211 VHF Transceiver
AFJQS3D1XX-206TA           N/A        OK-423/G Control Monitor Group
AFJQS3D1XX-206TB           N/A        CU-547/GR Antenna Coupler
AFJQS3D1XX-207X            N/A        AN/TRC-187A Time Signal Set
AFJQS3D1XX-                N/A        Scope Shield II Maintenance
210AB
AFJQS3D1XX-210W            N/A        Personal Wireless Communications Systems
AFJQS3D1XX-211D            N/A        Air Force Tactical Receive System
AFJQS3D1XX-218A            N/A        Predator Ground Communications
AFQTP3D1XX-200S            N/A        Basic/Advanced Soldering

Generic AFJQSs/AFQTPs applicable to 3DXXX AFSCs:
Publication No.        Pseudo File    Publication Title
AFJQS3DXXX-                N/A        AN/GSQ-272 Distributed Common Ground
200EC                                 Systems Data Links
AFJQS3DXXX-200N            N/A        DoD 8570 IA Workforce Improvement Program
AFJQS3DXXX-201F            N/A        Communications Focal Point
AFJQS3DXXX-201G            N/A        Quality Assurance
AFJQS3DXXX-                N/A        JTIDS Module
201TC
AFJQS3DXXX-208N            N/A        Battle Control System-Fixed (BCS-F)
AFJQS3DXXX-212Z            N/A        Global Broadcast Service Ground Receive Suite
AFJQS3DXXX-213I            N/A        Military Construction Program
AFJQS3DXXX-213J            N/A        Second Generation Wireless Local Area Network
AFJQS3DXXX-230T            N/A        Remedy
AFQTP3DXXX-200D            N/A        Integrated Maintenance Data System (IMDS)
                                      Handbook
AFQTP3DXXX-202A            N/A        Electrostatic Discharge Handbook




                                       60
AFQTP3DXXX-212C                     N/A              Command, Control, Communications and
                                                     Computer (C4) Information Systems
                                                     Familiarization Handbook
AFQTP3DXXX-213R                     N/A              Support Agreements and Administrative Contract
                                                     Management
Section D - Training Course Index
8. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for continuation/
supplemental training. For information on all formal courses, refer to the Air Force Education
and Training Course Announcements (ETCA) database, formerly AFCAT 36-2223, USAF
Formal Schools Catalog at https://etca.randolph.af.mil/

9. Air Force In-Residence Courses.
 Course Number                                   Course Title                         Location
AF ISRA RJ GDPS    Ground Data Processing System Maintenance Course                Offutt AFB
                   Deployable Ground Intercept Facility/Ground Control Processor
DCGS-DGIF/GCP                                                                      Beale AFB
                   Maintenance
E3ASP3D152 02CB    KG-47/47A/77 Depot Maintenance                                  Keesler AFB
E3ASP3D152 03GA    MYK-16 Depot Maintenance                                        Keesler AFB
E3ASP3D152 03OB    KOK-22/KOK-22A Depot Maintenance                                Keesler AFB
E3ASP3D152 03QB    MYK-17 Depot Maintenance                                        Keesler AFB
E3AZR3D152 01AA    Network Management Infrastructure Associate                     Keesler AFB
E3AZR3D152 01PA    Network Management Infrastructure Professional                  Keesler AFB
E3AZR3D152 02AA    Modular Control Equipment (MCE) Organizational Maintenance      Keesler AFB
E6AZL3D152 02AA    Global Broadcast Service Systems                                Mobile Training
E6AZS3D152 01AA    TSEC/KG-30 Series, Limited Maintenance (STP)                    On Site

E6AZS3D152 01BA    TSEC/KG-81, Limited Maintenance (STP)                           On Site

E6AZS3D152 01CA    TSEC/KG-84Series, Limited Maintenance (STP)                     On Site

E6AZS3D152 01DA    TSEC/KI-1 Series, Limited Maintenance (STP)                     On Site
E6AZS3D152 01EA    TSEC/KY-57/58, Limited Maintenance (STP)                        On Site
E6AZS3D152 01HA    TSEC/KG-94/94A/194/194A, Limited Maintenance (STP)              On Site
E6AZS3D152 01IA    TSEC/KGV-8/11 Series/ST-61, DEPOT Maintenance (STP)             On Site
E6AZS3D152 01KA    TSEC/CI-10, Limited Maintenance (STP)                           On Site
E6AZS3D152 01LA    TSEC/KY-68/78, Limited Maintenance (STP)                        On Site
E6AZS3D152 01MA    (STP) COMSEC Awareness                                          On Site
E6AZS3D152 01PA    TSEC/KG-83, Operational Certification Training (STP)            On Site
E6AZS3D152 01QA    TSEC/KY-90, Limited Maintenance (STP)                           On Site
E6AZS3D152 01RA    TRI-TAC COMSEC Equipment, Limited Maintenance (STP)             On Site
E6AZS3D152 01SA    TSEC/KG-95 Series, DEPOT Maintenance (STP)                      On Site
E6AZS3D152 01VA    TSEC/KG-40A, Limited Maintenance (STP)                          On Site
E6AZS3D152 01WA    TSEC/KY-99, Limited Maintenance (STP)                           On Site
E6AZS3D152 03RA    TSEC/KG-30 Series, DEPOT Maintenance (STP)                      On Site
E7AST3D152 02AA    Global Broadcast Service Systems                                Keesler AFB
J3AZR3D152 0A5A    AS5300 Configuration, Maintenance, and Administration           Sheppard AFB
J3AZR3D152 0C5A    Cisco Call Manager with Voice over Internet Protocol            Sheppard AFB
J3AZR3D152 0E5A    AVAYA Voice Network Switching                                   Sheppard AFB
J3AZR3D152 0M5A    Meridian 1 Option 61C                                           Sheppard AFB
J3AZR3D152 0N5A    Telephony Installation and Maintenance Techniques               Sheppard AFB
J3AZR3D152 0S5A    Digital Voice Switching                                         Sheppard AFB
J3AZR3D152 0T5A    Telecommunications Management System (TMS)                      Sheppard AFB
J3AZR3D152 0Z5B    Voice Translations                                              Sheppard AFB




                                                       61
                    Theater Deployable Communications Cyber Transport Systems /         Robins AFB or
J4AMP3D1X2 A48A
                    Infrastructure                                                      Savannah ARB
                                                                                        Robins AFB or
J4AMP3D1X2 B48A     Theater Deployable Communications Cyber Transport Systems / Voice
                                                                                        Savannah ARB

10. Air University Courses.
For a current listing of Air University courses go to http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl.
11. Exportable Courses.
For a current list of the available CBT courses refer to
https://www.my.af.mil/faf/FAF/fafHome.jsp, (Under AF e-Learning).
Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements
12. There are currently no MAJCOM unique training requirements. This area is reserved.




                                                      62
