DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                 CFETP 3E0X2
Headquarters US Air Force                                                                   Parts I and II
Washington DC 20330-5000                                                                    30 November 2008



                                                AFSC 3E0X2

                           ELECTRICAL POWER PRODUCTION




                                                   MASTER




                        BASIC                                                           SENIOR
                                    CAREER FIELD
                              EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for
downloading or ordering
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication




                                                     1
                           CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

                             ELECTRICAL POWER PRODUCTION SPECIALTY

                                                               AFSC 3E0X2


                                                          Table of Contents


Preface...........................................................................................................................4

Abbreviations/Terms Explained...................................................................................6

PART I

Section A - General Information.................................................................……...….11
     Purpose
     Uses
     Coordination and Approval

Section B - Career Field Progression and Information............................................13
     Specialty Descriptions
     Skill/Career Progression
          Apprentice (3-Level)
          Journeyman (5-Level)
          Craftsman (7-Level)
          Superintendent (9-Level)
          Civil Engineer Manager
     Training Decisions
     Community College of the Air Force Academic Programs
     Career Field Path

Section C - Skill Level Training
Requirements...........................................................................……………………......27
     Purpose
     Specialty Qualification Requirements
         Apprentice (3-Level)
         Journeyman (5-Level)
         Craftsman (7-Level)
         Superintendent (9-Level)
         Civil Engineer Manager

Section D - Resource Constraints.........................................................…….……...35
     Purpose
     Training Constraints

                                                                   2
Section E - Transition Training Guide..................................................................…..37

PART II

Section A - Specialty Training Standard ...................................................………….38
       Implementation
       Purpose
       Recommendations
       Qualitative Requirements
       Specialty Training Standard
       AFQTP Documentation Record

Section B - Course Objective List               .................................................................…….. 67

Section C - Support Materials              ........................................................................…..... 68

Section D - Training Course Index                 ................................................................……. 69

Section E - Major Command (MAJCOM)-Unique Requirements                                           ..................…..71

Section F - Home Station Training                 ................................................................……..72




____________________________________
OPR: 366 TRS/TRR
Certified by: CMSgt Todd Gumprecht (HQ AFCESA/CEOF)
Supersedes CFETP3E0X2, 31 August 08
Pages: 39

                                                        3
                                         PREFACE

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for this specialty. The CFETP will provide
personnel a clear career path to success and instill rigor in all aspects of career field training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts used by supervisors to plan, manage, and control training
within the career field.

     2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty.

           2.1.1. Section A provides general information about how the CFETP will be used.

           2.1.2. Section B identifies career field progression information, duties and
           responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path.

           2.1.3. Section C associates each skill level with specialty qualifications (knowledge,
           education, and training).

           2.1.4. Section D indicates resource constraints.

           2.1.5. Section E identifies transition training guide requirements for SSgt through
           MSgt.

     2.2. Part II includes the following:

           2.2.1. Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) to include duties,
           tasks, and technical references to support Air Education and Training Command
           (AETC)-conducted training, war time course, and correspondence course
           requirements.

           2.2.2. Section B is optional. If used, it contains the course objective list and training
           standards supervisors will use to determine if Airmen satisfy training requirements.

           2.2.3. Section C identifies available support materials. Air Force Qualification
           Training Packages (AFQTPs) and CerTests support both Upgrade Training (UGT)
           and qualification training.

           2.2.4. Section D identifies a training course index supervisors can use to determine
           resources available to support training. Included here are both mandatory and
           optional courses, and exportable courseware.



                                              4
           2.2.5. Section E identifies MAJCOM-unique training requirements supervisors can
           use to determine additional training required for the associated qualification needs.

           2.2.6. Section F identifies home station training references and courses material
           required for this specialty in support of contingency and war time training.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive
effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their careers. This plan will enable us
to train today‘s work force for tomorrow‘s jobs in the expeditionary Air Force. At unit level,
supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with
the overall goals of this guide.




                                             5
                          ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Distributive Learning (ADL). Anytime, anywhere learning within DoD consisting
of instructional modules comprised of sharable content objectives in an Internet/Intranet
environment.

Advanced Training (AT). A formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in one
or more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance
their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career airmen at the advanced level of
the AFS.

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). An individual on the Air Staff charged with the
responsibility for overseeing all training and career field management aspects of an Air Force
specialty or group of specialties.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard/Command Job Qualification Standard
(AFJQS/CJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a particular job type or duty position.
Used by supervisors to document task qualifications. The tasks on the AFJQS/CJQS are
common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Air Force Qualification Training Package (AFQTP). An instructional package designed for
use at the unit to qualify, or aid qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of
equipment. AFQTPs identify the Air Force‘s standardized method for performing the task. The
AFQTP may be printed (paper-based), computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.

Air Force Training Record (AFTR). A web-based electronic training record used to track an
individual‘s training requirements.

Basic Expeditionary Airfield Resources (BEAR) – Facilities, equipment, and basic
infrastructure to support the beddown of deployed forces and aircraft at austere locations; a
critical capability to fielding expeditionary aerospace forces. Resources include tents, field
kitchens, latrine systems, shop equipment, electrical and power systems, runway systems, aircraft
shelters and water systems needed to sustain operations.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A comprehensive, multi-purpose
document encapsulating the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field. It
outlines a logical growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career
field training identifiable, to eliminate duplication, and to ensure this training is budget
defensible.

Certification and Testing (CerTest). A multi-media evaluation program used to test an
individual‘s knowledge of principles and procedures in their career field.

Commercial Off The Shelf (COTS). Commercially-procured training products.



                                             6
Computer-Based Training (CBT). A self-paced stand-alone computer product used to deliver
interactive subject and task knowledge.

Continuation Training. Additional training exceeding requirements with emphasis on present
and future duty assignments.

Core Task. A task Air Force Career Field Managers (AFCFMs) identified as a minimum
qualification requirement within an Air Force specialty or duty position. These tasks exemplify
the essence of the career field.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication derived from initial/advanced skills course
training standard, identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective standards
provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to
assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201, AF Training
Program.

Critical Task. Tasks that have been identified by the work center supervisor as having a
detrimental effect on mission accomplishment if not performed correctly. Critical tasks may or
may not be the same as core tasks but are mandatory if identified as ‗critical‘ to the individual‘s
position by the supervisor or work center.

Diamond Tasks (♦). Diamond tasks are extremely important to the career field. Diamond tasks
are the same as core tasks with one exception--equipment shortfalls at most locations have
created problems with the actual hands-on certification of these tasks. In instances where
required equipment is not available for instruction, completion of the task‘s AFQTP and passing
the corresponding CerTest is all that is required for upgrade training. Hands-on certification
shall be accomplished at the first opportunity when equipment is available.

Distance Learning (DL). Includes Video Teleseminar (VTS), Video Teletraining (VTT), and
Computer-Based Training (CBT). Formal courses that a training wing or a contractor develops
for export to a field location (in place of resident training) for trainees to complete without the
on-site support of the formal school instructor. For instance, courses are offered by Air Force
Institute of Technology, Air University, and Training Detachment.

Duty Position Task. The tasks assigned to an individual for the position currently held. These
include as a minimum all core tasks, critical tasks, and any other tasks assigned by the
supervisor.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer-assisted, paper text, interactive video,
or other necessary means to supplement training.

Field Technical Training (Type 4). Special or regular on-site training conducted by a Field
Training Detachment (FTD).

                                              7
Initial Skills Training. AFS-specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air
Force or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. Normally, this training
is conducted by AETC at one of the technical training wings.

Mobile Training Team (MTT) (Type 7). On-site equipment training conducted by AETC
instructors at various host bases.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly, but flexible, process for
planning, developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures personnel
are taught in a cost-efficient way the knowledge, skills, and attitudes essential for successful job
performance.

Just in-time Training. Training required just prior to a select deployment that delivers training
necessary for mission accomplishment. It is typically predicated on hard to attain contingency
skills.

Learning Management System (LMS). An automated web-based distributive learning system
that delivers standard knowledge-based material to personnel, allowing for academic self-paced
learning and providing the ability to access material anytime and anywhere.

MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM). Senior leaders, designated by the appropriate
functional authority (FA) who provide day-to-day management and responsibility over specific
functional communities at the MAJCOM, FOA, DRU, or ARC level. While they should maintain
and institutional focus in regards to resource deployment and distribution, FMs are responsible
for ensuring their specialties are equipped, developed, and sustained to meet future needs of the
total Air Force mission.

Mobile Training Team (MTT) (Type 7). On-site training conducted by AETC instructors at
various host bases all over the world.

Occupational Survey Report (OSR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational
survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify
personnel in both upgrade (skill-level award) and job qualification (duty position certification)
training.

Optimal Training. The ideal combination of training settings resulting in the highest levels of
proficiency on specified performance requirements within the minimum time possible.

Proficiency Training. Additional training, either in-residence, exportable advanced training
courses, or on-the-job training provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge
beyond the minimum required for upgrade.



                                              8
Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an
individual in a specific duty position. This portion of the dual channel on-the-job training
program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the
performance skills required to do the job.

Readiness Training Package (RTP). Establishes standard levels of knowledge and proficiency
for common Disaster Preparedness and Readiness subject areas by providing instructors with
training references, materials, and lesson objectives used in teaching and evaluating the course
subject matter.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, or
equipment that preclude desired training from being delivered.

Skills Training. A formal course resulting in the award of a skill level.

Specialty Training. A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (on-the-
job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in the award of a skill level.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). Describes skills and knowledge that Airmen in a
particular AFS need on the job. It further serves as a contract between the Air Education and
Training Command (AETC) and the user to show the overall training requirements for an AFS
taught in the resident and nonresident courses.

Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, established and defined by
authority, custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring
quantities or qualities, establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results; a fixed quantity
or quality.

Supplemental Training. Training for a portion of an AFS without a change in AFSC. Formal
training on new equipment, methods, and technology that are not suited for on-the-job training.

Total Force. All collective Air Force components (active duty, Reserve, Guard, and civilian
elements) of the United States Air Force.

Training Capacity. The capability of a training setting to provide training on specified
requirements, based on the availability of resources.

Training Planning Team (TPT). Comprised of the same personnel as a U&TW; however,
TPTs are more intimately involved in training development and the range of issues is greater than
is normal in the U&TW forum.

Training Requirements Analysis. A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFS to be
included in the training decision process.

Upgrade Training (UGT). Identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements,
and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 5-, 7-, and 9-skill levels.

                                              9
Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum of the Air Force Career Field
Managers (AFCFM), MAJCOM Functional Managers (MFM), subject matter experts (SMEs),
and AETC training personnel that determine career ladder training requirements




                                      10
                                              PART I

                          SECTION A - GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Purpose. This CFETP provides information necessary for the Air Force Career Field
Managers (AFCFMs), MAJCOM Functional Managers (MFMs), commanders, education and
training managers, supervisors/trainer, and certifiers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an
effective career field training program. This plan outlines the training individuals require to
develop and progress throughout their careers. It identifies initial skills, upgrade, qualification,
advanced, and proficiency training.

     1.1. Initial skills training. Is the AFS-specific training an individual receives upon entry
     into the Air Force or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level.
     Normally, this training is conducted by AETC at one of the technical training wings.

     1.2. Upgrade training. Identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements,
     and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 5-, 7-, and 9-skill
     levels.

     1.3. Qualification training. Is actual hands-on task performance training designed to
     qualify an airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and
     after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance
     skills/knowledge required to do the job.

     1.4. Advanced training. Is a formal course that provides individuals who are qualified in
     one or more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge
     to enhance their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career airmen at the
     advanced level of the AFS.

     1.5. Proficiency training. Is additional training, either in-residence, exportable advanced
     training courses, or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and
     knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade.

2. The CFETP has several purposes:

     2.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field
     training program. It is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in
     an individual‘s career.

     2.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty
     and recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual‘s career.

     2.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty and identifies sources of training and
     training delivery methods.



                                              11
     2.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired
     career field training process.

3. Uses. MFM and supervisors will use the plan at all levels to ensure comprehensive and
cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

     3.1. AETC training personnel will develop/revise formal resident, nonresident, field, and
     exportable training based on requirements established by the users and documented in Part
     II of the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM, Air Force Civil Engineer Support
     Agency Force Development Division (HQ AFCESA/CEOF) to develop acquisition
     strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified training.

     3.2. MFM will ensure their training programs complement CFETP mandatory initial,
     upgrade, and proficiency requirements and identify requirements that can be satisfied by
     OJT, resident training, contract training, CerTest, exportable, Advanced Distributive
     Learning (ADL), or Distance Learning (DL) courses. MAJCOM-developed training to
     support this AFS must be identified for inclusion into the plan.

     3.3. Unit Education and Training managers and supervisors must ensure each individual
     completes the mandatory training requirements (including MAJCOM supplemental
     requirements) for the upgrade training specified in this plan.

     3.4. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this
     plan. The lists of courses in Part II in this CFETP will be used as a reference to support
     training.

4. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority for the CFETP.
MAJCOM representatives and AETC personnel identify and coordinate on the career field
training requirements. The AETC training manager for this specialty will initiate an annual
review of this document by AETC and MFM to ensure currency and accuracy. Using the list of
courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.




                                            12
     SECTION B - CAREER FIELD PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION

5. Specialty Descriptions. Electrical Power Production Apprentice, Journeyman,
Craftsman, and Superintendent.

     5.1. Installs, removes, operates, maintains, and repairs electrical power generating
     equipment and control systems, aircraft arresting systems, and associated equipment.
     Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 662.

     5.2. Duties and Responsibilities for Apprentice, Journeyman, and Craftsman.

          5.2.1. Installs and operates Electrical Power Production systems and equipment.

                5.2.1.1. Installs, removes, operates, maintains and repairs electrical power
                generating and control systems, aircraft arresting systems, and associated
                equipment.

                5.2.1.2. Checks equipment for serviceability.

                5.2.1.3. Positions equipment such as gasoline and diesel engines, generators,
                switchgears, air compressors, and other power generating auxiliary equipment.

                5.2.1.4. Installs, positions, rewinds, and pre-tensions aircraft arresting systems.

                5.2.1.5. Certifies aircraft arresting systems as required.

                5.2.1.6. Checks installed equipment to ensure compliance with publications,
                policies, and directives.

                5.2.1.7. Inspects, tests, and services components systems such as safety, fuel,
                lubrication, cooling, air pressure, pumps, regulators, governors, and accessory
                equipment.

                5.2.1.8. Observes and interprets instruments such as ammeters,
                voltmeters, frequency meters, synchroscopes, automatic temperature and
                pressure recorders, and engine oil, fuel, and coolant gauges.

                5.2.1.9. Adjusts engine generator systems to maintain proper voltage,
                current frequency, and synchronization. Operates high and low voltage
                switches, circuit breakers, rheostats and other controls on switchgear and
                distribution panels.

                5.2.1.10. Performs electrical power and distribution functions.




                                            13
5.2.2. Maintains, modifies, and repairs electric power generating and control
systems, automatic transfer switches, aircraft arresting systems, and associated
equipment.

     5.2.2.1. Performs inspections, and interprets findings to determine
     corrective actions.

     5.2.2.2. Identifies and documents engine and generator malfunctions.

     5.2.2.3. Uses precision test equipment, troubleshoots malfunctions, and
     inspects parts for excessive wear and other conditions.

     5.2.2.4. Removes, repairs, and replaces defective power generating
     components.

     5.2.2.5. Performs corrosion control.

     5.2.2.6. Inspects and replaces gauges and meters.

     5.2.2.7. Maintains aircraft arresting systems including electrical,
     hydraulic, rewind, and pneumatic components.

     5.2.2.8. Bench checks components and subassemblies.

     5.2.2.9. Tests and calibrates repaired items.

     5.2.2.10. Reviews performance data and maintenance records to
     determine adequacy of maintenance.

     5.2.2.11. Interprets data related to electrical power generating and
     aircraft arresting systems to ensure overall mission success.

5.2.3. Reviews and advises on projects associated with electrical power generating
and control systems, automatic transfer switches, aircraft arresting systems and
associated equipment.

     5.2.3.1. Reviews layout drawings and wiring diagrams.

     5.2.3.2. Ensures new construction meets proper operating characteristics of
     equipment.

     5.2.3.3. Establishes maintenance and operating procedures to ensure
     maximum efficiency.

     5.2.3.4. Ensures new construction meets proper operating characteristics of
     equipment.

                                 14
      5.2.4. Maintains records.

            5.2.4.1. Posts entries on operation, inspection, and maintenance records.

            5.2.4.2. Records meter reading, wear and alignment measurements, fuel
            consumption, and other data in performance logs.

            5.2.4.3. Furnishes information for reports and recommends changes to
            correct defective equipment or improve operating procedures.

            5.2.4.4. Applies engineered performance standards to plan and estimate jobs.

            5.2.4.5. Coordinates plans with other civil engineer and base agencies.

            5.2.4.6. Records meter readings, wear and alignment measurements, fuel
            consumption, and other data in performance logs.

            5.2.4.7. Furnishes information for reports and recommends changes to
            correct defective equipment or improve operating procedures.

            5.2.4.8. Applies engineered performance standards to plan and estimate jobs.

            5.2.4.9. Inspects work activities to ensure quality and compliance with
            policies, regulations, and other publications.

            5.2.4.10. Complies with environmental policies.

            5.2.4.11. Supervises and manages personnel and resources.

      5.2.5. Performs inspection activities.

            5.2.5.1. Attends site visits.

            5.2.5.2. Performs pre-acceptance inspections of power production systems.

5.3. Duties and Responsibilities for Superintendent. Manages resources and activities
devoted to installation, operation, maintenance, and repair of high and low voltage power
distribution systems, electrical power-generating and control systems, fire alarms, airfield
lighting systems, and aircraft arresting systems. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup:
721.

      5.3.1. Plans and organizes electrical activities.

            5.3.1.1. Programs and coordinates electrical power outages, maintenance, and
            repair requirements with users.


                                        15
                 5.3.1.2. Performs planning activities and facility surveys. Determines resources
                 requirements by conducting on-site investigations of proposed work.

                 5.3.1.3. Prepares cost estimates for in-service work requests.

                 5.3.1.4. Applies engineered performance standards in planning and estimating
                 jobs.

                 5.3.1.5. Coordinates plans with civil engineering and other agencies as required.

           5.3.2. Manages functions in electrical systems and power production activities.

                 5.3.2.1. Directs the installation, removal, operation, maintenance, and repair of
                 electrical power distribution systems, above and below 600 volts and electrical
                 power generating and control systems activities including overhead and
                 underground distribution systems, power plant operations, fire alarms, airfield
                 lighting systems, and aircraft arresting systems.

                 5.3.2.2. Identifies and controls requisitioning of systems, parts, fuels, lubricants,
                 bench stock, and technical publications.

                 5.3.2.3. Ensures productivity and work compliance.

                 5.3.2.4. Monitors electrical generating unit records and analyzes for
                 organization, intermediate, or depot level maintenance, and preparation of
                 maintenance forms, reports, and records.

                 5.3.2.5. Issues and logs safe clearance procedures for all crafts that maintain
                 electrical systems and power production equipment.

                 5.3.2.6. Ensures compliance with environmental and safety regulations and
                 practices.

           5.3.3. Inspects and evaluates electrical systems and power production activities to
           ensure compliance with policies and regulations.

                 5.3.3.1. Assists in solving maintenance, supply, and personnel problems.

                 5.3.3.2. Interprets inspection findings and initiates corrective action.

                 5.3.3.3. Ensures certification of personnel as required.

6. Skill/Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to
the superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force's ability to accomplish its
mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training do his or her part to plan, manage, and


                                             16
conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will
ensure individuals receive viable training at appropriate points in their careers.

     6.1. Apprentice (3-Level)

           6.1.1. Upon completion of initial skills training, a trainee will work with a trainer to
           enhance their knowledge and skills to progress to 5-Level.

           6.1.2 Complete CE Common Core Distance Learning product prior to ordering
           CDCs.

           6.1.3. Utilize the Career Development Course (CDC), Air Force Qualification
           Training Packages (AFQTPs) and other exportable courses for subject and task
           fundamentals in the career field. Successfully complete applicable web-based QTPs
           with corresponding CerTests.

           6.1.4. Once trained and task certified, a trainee may perform the task unsupervised.

           6.1.5. After all upgrade training requirements are completed, supervisors and Unit
           Education and Training Managers (UETMs) coordinate upgrade procedures.

           6.1.6. NOTE: All trainees are automatically enrolled in the Community College of
           the Air Force (CCAF) when awarded their primary AFSC.

6.2. Journeyman (5-Level)

           6.2.1. Enter into continuation training to broaden experience base

           6.2.2. Five-levels may be assigned job positions such as team leader and shift
           supervisor.

           6.2.3. Will attend the Airman Leadership School (ALS) after serving 48 months in
           the Air Force (active duty only). Either the resident or correspondence course is
           required for Air National Guard/Air Force Reserve Command (ANG/AFRC)
           personnel

           6.2.4. Will use CDCs and other reference material to prepare for Weighted Airman
           Performance Systems (WAPS) testing

           6.2.5. Should continue pursuing a CCAF degree.

           6.2.6. After all upgrade training requirements are complete, supervisors and UETMs
           coordinate upgrade procedures.




                                             17
6.3. Craftsman (7-Level)

     6.3.1. Completion of 100% 7-level core/diamond tasks, completion of the 7-level
     resident course, and completion of the CE Common Core 7-level DL product are the
     basic prerequisites for seven skill level award.

     6.3.2. A craftsman may expect to fill various supervisory and management positions
     such as shift leader, mobility team chief, production supervisor, or task certifier.

     6.3.3. Seven-levels should take continuation training courses or obtain additional
     knowledge on management of resources and personnel.

     6.3.4. Continued academic education through CCAF and higher degree programs is
     encouraged.

     6.3.5. Will attend the Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA) after promotion
     to TSgt (active duty only). Either the in-residence or the correspondence course is
     required for ANG/AFR personnel.

     6.3.6. After all upgrade training requirements are complete, supervisors and UETMs
     coordinate upgrade procedures.

6.4. Superintendent (9-Level)

     6.4.1. Must be a SMSgt for award of the 9-skill level.

     6.4.2. A 9-level fills positions such as flight chief, zone superintendents, and various
     staff positions.

     6.4.3. Should pursue increased knowledge of resources, budget, manpower, and
     personnel management.

     6.4.4. Recommend the pursuit of additional higher education and completion of
     courses outside of their career AFS.

     6.4.5. Completion of the Civil Engineer Superintendent Course (AFIT WMGT 570)
     is highly recommended.

     6.4.6. Will attend the Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy (SNCOA) after
     selection for promotion to SMSgt (active duty only). A percentage of top non-selects
     (for promotion to E-8) MSgts attend SNCOA each year. Either the in-residence or the
     correspondence course is required for Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard
     personnel.




                                      18
     6.5. Civil Engineer Manager

          6.5.1. Must be selected for CMSgt and possess qualifications in a feeder specialty
          (3E090, 3E191, 3E291, 3E391, 3E490, 3E591, or 3E691).

          6.5.2. Will work in a variety of similar jobs and functional areas where general
          managerial and supervisory abilities are most effectively used and challenged.

          6.5.3. Resident graduation of the USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA) is a
          prerequisite for CMSgt sew-on (active duty only). In residence or correspondence
          course required for Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard personnel.

          6.5.4. Completion of the Chief Leadership Course is mandatory. This course is the
          final level of enlisted PME

7. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Electrical Power Production
career field. The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet the training
requirements. The strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce duplication of training
and eliminate a disjointed approach to training. The following decisions were made at the
3E0X2 Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) held at Sheppard AFB TX in April 2005.

     7.1. Initial Skills Training. The initial skills course was reviewed for content. Additions,
     deletions, and modifications were made to the course. Wartime and contingency training
     were identified.

     7.2. Five-Level Upgrade Training Requirements. The requirements for 5-skill level
     were reviewed and changes were made to reflect the skills required to meet the AF mission.
     Requirements were based upon the Occupational Survey Report data and the
     recommendations of the attending subject matter experts (SMEs). Existing CDC
     requirements were updated

     7.3. Seven-Level Upgrade Training Requirements. Seven-level training requirements
     were reviewed. An AFSC-specific resident 7-level course was to be developed. However,
     the project was not approved due to insufficient TDY funds availability.

     7.4. Proficiency Training

          7.4.1. Any additional knowledge and skill requirements that were not taught through
          initial skills or upgrade training are assigned as continuation training.

          7.4.2. Purpose of continuation training is to provide training exceeding minimum
          upgrade training requirements with emphasis on present and future duty positions.



                                           19
           7.4.3. MAJCOMs must develop a continuation-training program that ensures
           individuals in the Electrical Power Production career field receive the necessary
           training at the appropriate point in their careers.
           7.4.4. The training program identifies mandatory and optional training requirements.

     7.5. Supplemental Training. Electrical Power Production SMEs and the U&TW
     representatives reviewed supplemental training courses for technical accuracy and
     identified training that was no longer required. The voting members elected to delete the
     CE Advanced Electronics Course, J3AZR3E072 013. They revalidated the remaining
     courses as necessary to fully support career progression in the AFS.

8. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Academic Programs. Airmen are
automatically enrolled in CCAF when awarded their primary AFSC. CCAF provides the
opportunity to obtain an Associate in Applied Sciences Degree. In addition to its associate
degree program, CCAF offers the following:

     8.1. Occupational Instructor Certification. The instructor must be a full-time instructor
     teaching a CCAF course at the time of nomination. Additionally, instructors should: hold
     an associate or higher degree from a degree-granting institution that is accredited in
     accordance with CCAF requirements, complete a teaching practicum course of at least 5
     semester hours credit, complete an instructor-training course of at least 3 semester hours
     and have two years of experience as a CCAF instructor, hold the journeyman (5-skill level)
     or higher (or fully qualified equivalent) in an AFS, be recommended for certification by the
     affiliate school commander, commandant, or equivalent designated representative.

     8.2. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill
     certification is awarded for the primary occupational specialty. The college uses a
     competency-based assessment process for trade skill certification at one of four proficiency
     levels: Apprentice, Journeyman, Craftsman/Supervisor, or Master Craftsman/Manager.
     All are transcribed on the CCAF transcript

     8.3. The Mechanical and Electrical Technology Associate Degree (4VGA)
     applies to AFSC 3E0X2.

           8.3.1. Degree Requirements. Prior to completing an Associate Degree, the
           individual must be awarded a 5-level and the following requirements must be met:

                 Course                                                Semester Hours
               Technical Education                                             24
               Leadership, Management, and Military Studies                     6
               Physical Education                                               4
               General Education                                               15
               Program Elective                                                15
               Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and
               Military Studies; or General Education
                                                                   Total         64

                                            20
8.3.2. Technical Education. (24 Semester Hours) A minimum of 12 semester
hours of Technical Core subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining semester
hours applied from Technical Core/Technical Elective courses.

      Technical Core Requirements                          Semester Hours

      CCAF Internship                                           18
      Electrical Power Production                               20
      Electrical Systems                                        20
      Heating Systems                                           20
      Refrigeration and Air Conditioning                        20


       Technical Electives                                 Semester Hours

      AF Enlisted Professional Military Education               12
      Air Distribution and Filtering Systems                     3
      Alternate Heating and Cooling                              3
      Blueprint Reading/Schematic Diagrams                       6
      Building Codes and Ordinance                               3
      Computer Science                                           6
      Control Systems/Maintenance                                6
      Electronics                                                9
      Engine Principles                                          3
      Environmental Awareness                                    3
      Environmental Compliance                                   3
      Industrial Management                                      3
      Industrial Safety                                          3
      Motor, Starter, and Control Devices                        6
      Quality Assurance                                          3
      Technical Mathematics (College Algebra or higher)          3
      Technical Physics                                          4
      Technical Writing                                          3
      Welding and Pipefitting                                    3


8.3.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours).
Professional military education and civilian management courses accepted in transfer.
Credit is also earned by testing.

8.3.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours). This requirement is satisfied by
completion of PHE 1000, Basic Training.


                                21
           8.3.5. General Education (15 Semester Hours). Applicable courses must meet the
           criteria for application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and
           be in agreement with the definitions of applicable general education subjects/courses
           as provided in the CCAF General Catalog.

                 General Education                                     Semester Hours

                 Oral Communication                                              3
                  Speech
                 Written Communication                                           3
                  English Composition

                  Mathematics                                                    3
                  An intermediate algebra or a college-level mathematics
                  course that satisfies the delivering institution‘s
                  mathematics requirement for graduation. If an
                  acceptable mathematics course is applied as a
                  Technical or Program Elective, a natural science
                  course may be substituted for mathematics.

                 Social Science                                                  3
                  Anthropology, Archaeology, Economics, Geography,
                  Government, History, Political Science, Psychology,
                  Sociology

                  Humanities                                                     3
                   Fine Arts (criticism, appreciation, historical
                   significance), foreign language, literature, philosophy,
                   religion

           8.3.6. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours). Courses applying to technical
           education, LMMS or general education requirements; natural science courses meeting
           general education requirement application criteria; foreign language credit earned at
           Defense Language Institute or through the Defense Language Proficiency Test;
           maximum 6 semester hours of CCAF degree-applicable technical course credit
           otherwise not applicable to program of enrollment .

9. Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is encouraged for all. Individuals
desiring to become an AETC Instructor should actively pursue an Associate Degree. A qualified
faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges and
Schools.




                                           22
10. Career Field Path. The following chart depicts the 3E0X2 specialty‘s career path:



                      Electrical Power Production Enlisted
                                Career Pyramid

                                                           22 yrs
                                                           Average
                              Chief Enlisted
                                                                                HQ, FOA, & Other
                              Manager
                                                                                        Master Badge
                                                                  20 yrs
                                               9                  Average
                    Superintendent
                                            LEVEL

                                                                      16 yrs
                                         7-LEVEL                      Average


                                                    Worker                  13 yrs
                                                   Supervisor               Average
    Senior Badge         7-LEVEL

                                       CRAFTSMAN
                                        TECH SCHOOL

                                          5-LEVEL
                                                                                      6 yrs
                                                Section Worker                        Average
                                               Worker/Supervisor

                                       JOURNEYMAN                                        36 months

                               CDC/OJT/AFQTP           (15 months OJT )


                                         3-LEVEL

   Basic Badge                                                                                  16 months
                                                                Section Worker

                                      APPRENTICE
   Initial Skills
     Training                                                        Trainee/Worker                   6 months


                     TECH SCHOOL                                                Student

                    BASIC MILITARY TRAINING                                           Student




                                          23
  10.1. Enlisted Career Path

Table: Enlisted Career Path
Education and Training                     Rank       Average       Earliest      High Year of Tenure
Requirements                                          Sew-On        Sew-On              (HYT)
Basic Military Training school
Apprentice Technical School                Amn        6 months
(3-Skill Level)                            A1C       16 months
- Must complete CE Common Core 3-
level DL
Upgrade To Journeyman                       SrA        3 years     28 months            12 Years
(5-Skill Level)                                                    (22months
- Complete all core and duty-related                                 BTZ)
tasks identified in CFETP.
- Minimum 15 months on-the-job
training
(9 months for retrainees)
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when
available.

Airman Leadership School (ALS)                                      Trainer
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time       - Trainer must be qualified and certified on tasks to be
in service or be a SSgt selectee.         trained.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite   - Must attend Formal AF Training Course.
for SSgt sew-on (active duty only).       - Must be recommended by the supervisor.
Upgrade To Craftsman                        SSgt      6 years       3 years             20 Years
(7-Skill Level)
- Complete all core and duty-related
tasks identified in CFETP
- Minimum rank of SSgt
- 12 months OJT
  ( 6 months in grade for re-trainees)
-Complete 7-level resident course
-Must complete CE Common Core 7-
level DL product.
Retrainee                                                           Certifier
- Minimum 9 months for 5-level            - SSgt with 5-skill level or civilian equivalent
- Minimum 6 months for 7-level UGT        - Attend Formal AF Training Course.
                                          - Be a person other than the trainer (for core and critical
                                          tasks only).
                                          - Must be capable of evaluation the task being certified.
Noncommissioned Officer Academy             TSgt       12 years     5 years             24 Years
(NCOA)
- Must be a TSgt or TSgt selectee
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite    MSgt       16 years      8 years             26 Years
for MSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).

                                              24
USAF Senior NCO Academy                   SMSgt      20 years     11 years            28 Years
- Must be a SMSgt or SMSgt selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite
for CMSgt sew-on (active duty only).
- A percentage of top non-selects (for
promotion to E-8) MSgts attend the
SNCOA each year.

Upgrade To Superintendent
(9-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SMSgt
Completion of the AFIT WMGT 570,
Civil Engineer Superintendent Course
is recommended


Civil Engineer Manager (CEM)              CMSgt      22 years     14 years            30 years
-USAF Senior NCO Academy
(SNCOA) resident graduation is a
prerequisite for CMSgt sew-on (active
duty only)
Completion of the Chief Leadership
course




        10.2. CE Occupational Badge. The Civil Engineer badge reflects a great history and
        tradition. By wearing it, you will be recognized by your fellow Airmen as having achieved
        an expected level of competence. The multitude of engineers before you established this
        expectation through excellent service in both peace and war. Eligibility criteria for award
        and wear of AF occupational badges can be found in AFI 36-2923, Aeronautical, Duty, and
        Occupational Badges, on the Air Force Electronic Publications Library (AFEPL).

             10.2.1. CE Badge Heraldry. The gear wheel and compass have historically been
             used to represent the engineering profession, in both the military and civilian sector.
             The gear represents the essence of engineering: applying scientific principles and
             technology to practical ends. To Air Force engineers, the gear symbolizes an element
             (representing the built environment) that meshes with other environments (weapon
             systems and trained personnel) to enable the Air Force to perform its mission. The
             compass is a precision tool historically used by engineers in designing and
             constructing facilities and equipment. The gear and compass together symbolize all
             the diverse specialties within Air Force civil engineer. Finally, the wings help to
             portray the fundamental linkage between the engineering and aviation components;
             and that the built environment is the foundation supporting Air Force mission and
             people.
                                              25
10.2.1.1. Basic Badge. The basic badge is awarded upon successful
completion of the apprentice course and the CE Common Core training.

10.2.1.2. Senior Badge. The senior badge adds a star to the top of the
badge. This is awarded after the member successfully completes all
the 7-level training requirements.

10.2.1.3. Master Badge. The master badge adds a wreath around the
star. It is awarded to master sergeant or above with five years in the
specialty from award of the 7-skill level.




                         26
           SECTION C – SKILL-LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

11. Purpose. The various skill levels in the career field are defined in terms of tasks and
knowledge requirements for the Electrical Power Production career ladder. They are stated in
broad, general terms and establish the standards of performance. An all-encompassing core task
list has been developed for this specialty because of the diversity of the missions supported and
the equipment installed to meet mission requirements. Core tasks (and diamond tasks as
applicable), knowledge items, and skill requirements for this specialty are identified in the
Specialty Training Standard (STS). Completion of the mandatory 3-level apprentice course, the
mandatory 3-level Distance learning (DL) Common Core program, the mandatory completion of
the 5-level Career Development Course (CDC), the mandatory completion of applicable
AFQTPs and CerTests, and the mandatory 7-level DL Common Core.

12. Skill-Level Training Requirements.

     12.1. Apprentice (3-Level) Training Requirements.

           12.1.1. Specialty Qualifications.

                12.1.1.1. Knowledge. Completion of the technical training apprentice
                course and the CE Common Core Distance Learning satisfy this
                mandatory requirement.

                12.1.1.2. Education. Completion of high school or general education
                development (GED) courses in mathematics, general science, physics,
                shop mechanics, electricity, and computer fundamentals is desirable.

                12.1.2.3. Training.

                      12.1.2.3.1. Completion of the Electrical Power Production
                      Apprentice Course, J3ABR3E032 00AB, is mandatory for award
                      of this skill level

                      12.1.2.3.2. Completion of the CE Common Core DL is mandatory
                      for the award of this skill level.

                12.1.2.4. Experience. N/A

                12.1.2.5. Other.

                      12.1.2.5.1. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical
                      Examination and Standards

                      12.1.2.5.2. Qualification to operate government vehicles according
                      to AFMAN 24-301, Vehicle Operations.


                                            27
    12.1.2. Training Sources/Resources.

         12.1.2.1. Formal Training is accomplished through Course
         J3ABR3E032 00AB, at Sheppard AFB, TX.

         12.1.2.2. The COL, Part II, Section B of this CFETP, is optional. When
         used, it identifies all the knowledge and task objectives with their
         respective standards.

         12.1.2.3. When applicable, AFQTPs, and associated CerTests are
         mandatory for use during UGT/QT on all core tasks and diamond
         (♦)tasks.

         12.1.2.4. DL product for CE Common Core tasks

    12.1.3. Implementation.

         12.1.3.1. The 3-skill level is awarded after graduating the apprentice
         course and completing the CE Common Core DL.

12.2. Journeyman (5-Level) Training Requirements.

    12.2.1. Specialty Qualification. Entry into 5-level upgrade training is initiated after
    the individual has completed the 3-level school. All 3-level qualifications apply to 5-
    level requirements.

         12.2.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge of the following is mandatory:

               12.2.1.1.1. Principles of electronics and electricity, including generation,
               conversion, transformation, distribution, and utilization
               12.2.1.1.2. Types, capacity, and purpose of high/low voltage circuits,
               circuit breakers, switches, fuses, regulators, relays, instruments, and
               meters associated with electric generation and distribution

               12.2.1.1.3. Interpreting instrument and meter readings

               12.2.1.1.4. Wiring diagrams, schematics, drawings, and technical
               publications

               12.2.1.1.5. Techniques of operating and maintaining internal combustion
               engines, generators, generating plants, distribution panels, and
               accessories

               12.2.1.1.6. Repair and maintenance of aircraft arresting systems
               12.2.1.1.7. Use and purpose of test equipment

               12.2.1.1.8. Safety rules and practices

                                     28
     12.2.1.1.9. Environmental policies

     12.2.1.1.10. Principles of management

     12.2.1.1.11. Operation and repair of electrical power production systems

12.2.1.2. Education. N/A

12.2.1.3. Training

     12.2.1.3.1. Completion of CDC is mandatory.

     12.2.1.3.2. Certification of all 5-level core tasks identified with a single
     asterisk (*) in the core task column of the STS is mandatory.

     12.2.1.3.3. Completion of AFQTPs for assigned core and diamond
     (♦)tasks is mandatory.

     12.2.1.3.4. Completion of CerTests for all diamond (♦)tasks with a
     minimum of 80% passing score is mandatory.

     12.2.1.3.5. Certification of duty position requirements identified by the
     supervisor is mandatory.

     12.2.1.3.6. Completion of the J3AZR3E052 00TA resident course,
     Troubleshooting Electrical Power Generating Equipment, is highly
     desirable.

     12.2.1.3.7. Completion of the J3AZR3E052 00BA resident course,
     Contingency Power Generation is highly desirable.

     12.2.1.3.8. Completion of J7AZT3E052 00AA, Aircraft Arresting
     Systems, BAK-12 (MTT) is highly desirable.

     12.2.1.3.9. Completion of J7AZT3E052 00HA, Hook Cable Support
     System, BAK-14 (MTT) is highly desirable.

     12.2.1.3.10. Completion of J7AZT3E052 00MB, Mobile Aircraft
     Arresting Systems, (MAAS) MTT is highly desirable.

12.2.1.4. Experience.

     12.2.1.4.1. Qualification in and possession of 3-skill level.

     12.2.1.4.2. Operation and maintenance of engines, generators, and
     distribution components of electric power production equipment and
     aircraft arresting barriers.

                           29
               12.2.1.4.3. Minimum 15 months on-the-job training (9 months for re-
               trainees) before award of 5-skill level.

         12.2.1.5. Other. N/A

    12.2.2. Training Sources/Resources

         12.2.2.1. CDC 3E052 (A and B or C and D) Electrical Power Production
         Journeyman

         12.2.2.2. The STS (Part II, Section A of the CFETP) identifies all core tasks
         required for qualification in the individual‘s duty position.

         12.2.2.3. Qualified trainers provide upgrade and qualification training for duty
         positions, managed programs, and/or equipment to be used.

         12.2.2.4. Resident Course J3AZR3E052 00TA, Troubleshooting Electrical
         Power Generating Equipment

         12.2.2.5. Resident Course J3AZR3E052 00BA, Contingency Power
         Generation

         12.2.2.6. MTT Course J7AZT3E052 01AA, Aircraft Arresting Systems, BAK-
         12.

         12.2.2.7. MTT Course J7AZT3E052 02AA, BAK-14

         12.2.2.8. MTT Course J7AZT3E052 00MB, Mobile Aircraft Arresting Systems
         (MAAS)

    12.2.3. Implementation.

         12.2.3.1. Entry into formal journeyman upgrade training is accomplished after
         individuals are assigned to their first duty station.

         12.2.3.2. Qualification training is initiated any time individuals are assigned
         duties they are not certified to perform.

         12.2.3.3. AFQTPs are used concurrently to obtain necessary duty position
         qualifications.

12.3. Craftsman (7-Level) Training Requirements

    12.3.1. Specialty Qualification. All 5-level qualifications apply to 7-level
    requirements.


                                     30
12.3.1.1. Knowledge. All 5-level knowledge requirements apply to 7-level
requirements.

12.3.1.2. Education.

     12.3.1.2.1. To assume the grade of SSgt, individuals must successfully
     complete Airman Leadership School (active duty only).

     12.3.1.2.2. To assume the grade of MSgt, individuals must successfully
     complete the NCO Academy (active duty only).

     12.3.1.2.3. For ANG/AFRC, completion of Air Force Institute for
     Advanced Distributive Learning (AFIADL) courses 00001 (ALS) and
     00009D & E (NCO Academy) satisfy the requirement.

12.3.1.3. Training

     12.3.1.3.1. Completion of CE Common Core 7-Level DL course is
     mandatory.

     12.3.1.3.2. Completion of in-residence 7-level Craftsman Course is
     mandatory (when implemented).

     12.3.1.3.3. Certification of duty position requirements identified by the
     supervisor is mandatory.

     12.3.1.3.4. Certification of all 5- and 7-skill level core tasks identified
     with a single asterisk (*) respectively in the core column of the STS is
     mandatory.

     12.3.1.3.5. Completion of all AFQTPs for assigned core and diamond (♦)
     tasks is mandatory.

     12.3.1.3.6. Completion of the AFQTP associated CerTests for all diamond
     (♦) tasks with a minimum of 80% passing score is mandatory.

12.3.1.4. Experience

     12.3.1.4.1. Qualification in and possession of a 5-level

     12.3.1.4.2. Performing or supervising functions of operating and repairing
     of electrical power production and aircraft arresting systems

     12.3.1.4.3. Minimum 12 months on-the-job training (6 months for re-
     trainees) before award of 7- skill level


                           31
         12.3.1.5. Other. N/A

    12.3.2. Training Sources/Resources

         12.3.2.1. J3AZR3E072 00AA, Power Generation Planning, Operations
         and Maintenance (3E0X2 7-level supplemental course).

         12.3.2.2. NCO Academy Course 00006D & E (paper-based
         correspondence).

         12.3.2.3. The STS identifies all core tasks required for qualification in
         the individual‘s duty position.

         12.3.2.4. Qualified trainers provide upgrade and qualification training for duty
         positions, managed programs, and/or equipment to be used.

         12.3.2.5. CE Common Core 7-Level DL product.

    12.3.3. Implementation.

         12.3.3.1. Entry into 7-level training is initiated when an individual is selected
         for SSgt and has fulfilled all 5-level requirements.

         12.3.3.2. Qualification training is initiated any time an individual is assigned
         duties that they are not qualified to perform.

         12.3.3.3. AFQTPs are used concurrently to obtain necessary duty position
         qualifications.

12.4. Superintendent (9-Level) Training Requirements

    12.4.1. Specialty Qualification

         12.4.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge of the following is mandatory:

              12.4.1.1.1. Air Force training programs

              12.4.1.1.2. CE policies, practices, and procedures of base maintenance
              and operations, crafts, facilities, equipment, and systems

              12.4.1.1.3. Interpretation and application of maintenance and work force
              management

              12.4.1.1.4. Principles of electricity and electronics, electrical circuitry and
              distribution; interior and exterior electrical distribution systems


                                      32
          12.4.1.1.5. Internal combustion engines and other prime movers for
          electrical generating systems

          12.4.1.1.6. Principles of alarm systems, cathodic protection systems,
          aircraft arresting systems, and airfield lighting systems

          12.4.1.1.7. Safety and environmental concerns




     12.4.1.2. Education

          12.4.1.2.1. ANG/AFRC must complete AFIADL course 000014 to satisfy
          the Senior NCO Academy requirement.

     12.4.1.3. Training

          12.4.1.3.1. Completion of duty position training requirements

          12.4.1.3.2. Completion of the Civil Engineer Superintendent Course,
          WMGT 570, is recommended.

     12.4.1.4. Experience

          12.4.1.4.1. Qualification in and possession of 7-skill level is mandatory.

          12.4.1.4.2. Managing functions such as inspecting, operating,
          maintaining, and repairing electrical distribution systems, electrical
          generating systems, fire and intrusion detection systems, airfield lighting
          systems, and aircraft arresting systems.

     12.4.1.5. Other. N/A

12.4.2. Training Sources/Resources

     12.4.2.1. SNCO Academy in-residence at Maxwell AFB, Gunter Annex AL.

     12.4.2.2. SNCO Academy Course 000014.

     12.4.2.3 Civil Engineer Superintendent Course, WMGT 570, conducted
     at Air Force Institute of Technology, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH

12.4.3. Implementation



                                33
         12.4.3.1. Entry into 9-level training is initiated when an individual is
         selected for SMSgt and is a fully qualified 7-level.

         12.4.3.2. QT is initiated any time an individual is assigned duties they
         are not qualified to perform.




12.5. Civil Engineer Manager

    12.5.1. Specialty Qualification

         12.5.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge of the following is mandatory:

              12.5.1.1.1. Managing and directing personnel resource activities

              12.5.1.1.2. Interpreting and enforcing policy and applicable
              directives

              12.5.1.1.3. Establishing control procedures to meet work goals and
              standards

              12.5.1.1.4. Recommending or initiating actions to improve
              operational efficiency

              12.5.1.1.5. Planning and programming work commitments and
              schedules

              12.5.1.1.6. Developing plans regarding facilities, supplies, and
              equipment procurement and maintenance

         12.5.1.2. Education. Must be a resident graduate of SNCOA (active
         duty only).

         12.5.1.3. Training. Completion of the Chief Leadership Course

         12.5.1.4. Experience

              12.5.1.4.1. Possess qualifications in feeder specialty 3E090 prior
              to award of Civil Engineer Manager Code 3E000

              12.5.1.4.2. Managerial ability to plan, direct, coordinate,
              implement, and control a wide range of work activity


                                      34
     12.5.1.5. Other. N/A

12.5.2. Training Sources and Resources. Chief Leadership Course is conducted
at Maxwell AFB, AL

12.5.3. Implementation. Entry into Civil Engineer Manager Code 3E000 is
initiated when an individual is selected for CMSgt and possesses qualifications in a
feeder specialty (3E090, 3E191, 3E291, 3E391, 3E490, 3E591, and 3E691).




                                 35
                       SECTION D - RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS

13. Purpose. The following paragraphs describe the resource constraints that result from
publication of this CFETP. Any constraints are referenced to specific STS line items shown as
back slashed on the STS.

     13.1. Apprentice (3-Level) Training: No resource constraints

     13.2. Journeyman (5-Level) Training

           13.2.1. Equipment Constraints: NA

           13.2.2. Time/Manpower/Student Man-year Constraints: None

           13.2.3. Funds/Facilities Constraints: None

           13.2.4. Other Constraints:

                   13.2.4.1. AFQTP development for all core and diamond tasks.

                   13.2.4.2. Impact. Required training will be available upon
                   implementation of this CFETP.

                   13.2.4.3. OPR/Target Completion Date: AFCESA/CEOF/Sep 07

     13.3. Craftsman (7-Level) Training: NA

     13.4. Superintendent (9-Level) Training: None




                                           36
                    SECTION E - TRANSITION TRAINING GUIDE

14. There are currently no transition training requirements. This area is reserved.




                                         37
                                             PART II

                   SECTION A - SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

1. Implementation. This STS is used to identify technical training provided by AETC for the 3-
level Electrical Power Production Apprentice Course, J3ABR3E032 00AB, with class beginning
1 October 2008 and graduating 19 December 2008. It also identifies the follow-on Distance
Learning (DL) Common Core curriculum.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, Volume 5, the STS:

     2.1. Lists in Column 1 (Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common
     tasks, knowledge, and Technical References (TRs) necessary for Airmen to perform duties
     in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill levels.

     2.2. Column 2 (Core Tasks) identifies core tasks (specialty-wide training requirements) by
     an asterisk (*) for 5- and 7-skill levels. As a minimum, trainees must complete all core
     tasks for skill-level upgrade.

          2.2.1. All tasks in the 3-level column are considered wartime tasks. In response to a
          wartime scenario, training in the 3-level course is accelerated and all tasks and
          knowledge are taught in a streamlined training environment—i.e., 10 hours-a-day, 6
          days-a-week.

          2.2.2. Tasks identified by a diamond (♦) in Column 2 are extremely important to the
          career field. Equipment shortfalls at most locations however, have created problems
          with the actual hands-on certification of these tasks. In instances where required
          equipment is not available for instruction, completion of the task‘s AFQTP and
          corresponding CerTest and their associated tests is sufficient to fulfill the requirement
          for upgrade training.

     2.3. Provides certification for OJT. Columns 3A, B, C, D, and E are used to record
     completion of tasks and knowledge training requirements. If available, use automated
     training management system, the Air Force Training Record (AFTR), to document
     technician qualifications. Task certification of core tasks requires a training completion
     date and initials of the trainee, trainer, and certifier. All non-core tasks require training
     completion date and initials of the trainee and trainer only.

     2.4. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Columns 4A, B, and
     C show the proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training
     on the task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the initial skills training
     course, distance learning program, correspondence course, and computer-based training.
     See CADRE/AFSC/CDC listing maintained by the unit education and training manager for
     current CDC listings.



                                             38
2.5. Identifies qualitative requirements. Attachment 1 contains the Proficiency Code Key
used to indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training, distance
learning, and career development courses.

2.6. Becomes a Job Qualification Standard (JQS) for on-the-job training when placed in
AF Form 623, Individual Training Record, and used according to AFI 36-2201, AF
Training Program, Volume 5. When used as a JQS, the following requirements apply:

     2.6.1. Documentation. Document and certify completion of training.

           2.6.1.1. Identify current duty position requirements by circling the sub-
           paragraph number or letter next to the task statement. Additionally, circle all
           core and diamond (♦) tasks. Document task completion by annotating
           Columns 3A, 3B, 3C, and 3D. NOTE: All entries shall be made in pencil.

           2.6.1.2. AFQTPs. Enter the start date of the AFQTP on the AFQTP
           Documentation Record. Once completed, enter the completion date. When
           hands-on training is started and completed, annotate the STS accordingly.

           2.6.1.3. Transcribing to a new CFETP. Transcribing to a new CFETP is an
           administrative function, not a re-evaluation of training. Therefore, supervisor
           and trainer are considered synonymous for the purpose of training. Transcribe
           within 120 days (240 days for ARC) of new CFETP date. Upon completion of a
           new CFETP, use the following procedures to transcribe:

                 2.6.1.3.1. Use the new CFETP to identify past and current training
                 requirements and to transcribe qualifications from previous CFETP.

                 2.6.1.3.2. For tasks previously certified and still required in the current
                 duty position, circle the sub-paragraph number next to the task statement
                 and enter the current date in the completion column. Trainee initials in the
                 trainee column and the current task certifier or supervisor/trainer initials in
                 the trainer column.

                 2.6.1.3.3. For tasks previously certified but not required in the current
                 duty position (do not circle), transcribe only the previous certification
                 dates (no initials). If the task later becomes required in the duty position,
                 re-certify using current dates and initials.

                 2.6.1.3.4. Annotate the AF Form 623a, for example, ―I certify the
                 information contained in the CFETP dated XX was transcribed to the
                 CFETP dated XX, and the trainee was given the superseded CFETP.‖
                 Signed and dated by the supervisor and trainee.




                                       39
                2.6.1.4. Documenting Career Knowledge. When a CDC is not available, the
                supervisor identifies STS training references that the trainee requires for career
                knowledge and ensures, as a minimum, that trainees cover all mandatory items
                specified in the Enlisted Classification Directory job description.

                2.6.1.5. De-Certification and Re-Certification. When a supervisor
                determines an Airman is unqualified on a task previously certified for their duty
                position, the supervisor erases the previous certification, or deletes certification
                when using the automated system. Appropriate remarks pertaining to the reason
                for the de-certification are entered on the AF Form 623a. Begin re-certification
                (if required) following procedures of initial certification.

           2.6.2. Training Standard. Tasks are trained and certified to the ―go‖ level. ―Go‖
           means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets the local
           requirements for accuracy, timeliness, and correct use of procedures. This equates to
           a ―3c‖ in the proficiency code key. AFQTPs, when available, shall be used to identify
           Air Force standardized procedures. Local requirements for accuracy, timeliness, and
           use of procedures shall be applied accordingly.

     2.7. The STS is used as a guide for development of promotion tests in the Weighted
     Airman Promotion System (WAPS). Senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in
     their career fields develop Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) at the USAF Occupational
     Measurement Squadron at Randolph AFB TX. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject
     matter areas judged by test development team members as most appropriate for promotion
     to higher grades. Questions are based upon study references listed in the WAPS Catalog.
     Individual responsibilities are in Chapter 1 of AFI 36-2605, United States Air Force
     Reenlistment, Retention, and NCO Status Programs. WAPS is not applicable to the Air
     National Guard or Air Reserve Forces.

3. Recommendations. Comments and recommendations are invited concerning quality of
training AETC graduates receive. Reference this STS regarding changes and address your
correspondence to 782 TRG/TGAV, 620 9th Avenue, Suite 3, Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2368.
A 782d Training Group Customer Service Information Line (CSIL) is installed for the
supervisor‘s convenience to identify graduates who may have received over or under training on
tasks/knowledge items listed in this STS. For a quick response to problems, call using the CSIL
at DSN: 736-2574 any time (day or night).


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE


OFFICIAL

                                                     KEVIN J. SULLIVAN, Lt. Gen, USAF
                                                     DCS, Logistics, Installations and
                                                       Mission Support

                                            40
3 Attachments:
1. Qualitative Requirements (Proficiency Code Keys)
2. STS: 3-, 5-, and 7-Level 3E0X2 Career Field Training Requirements
3. AFQTP Documentation Record




                                         41
4. Proficiency Code Keys, Attachment 1


This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                      Initials (Written)              SSAN (last 4)



Printed Name Of Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I


N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I



      QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                             Proficiency Code Key
                                     Scale    Definition: The individual
                                     Value
                                       1      Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (Extremely
                                              Limited)
          Task                         2      Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
      Performance                      3      Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
         Levels                        4      Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task.
                                              (Highly Proficient)
                                       a      Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)
         *Task                         b      Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)
       Knowledge                       c      Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                                              (Operating Principles)
          Levels                       d      Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
                                       A      Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
       **Subject                       B      Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (Principles)
       Knowledge                       C      Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
        Levels                         D      Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)

      Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

X This mark is used alone in the course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.

 NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war time.




                                                                   42
This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                        Initials (Written)           SSAN (last 4)

                                                Printed Name Of Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I


N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I



       QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                             Behavioral Statement STS Coding System

      Code                                                               Definition

       K           Subject Knowledge Training - The verb selection identifies the individual‘s ability to identify
                   facts, state principles, analyze, or evaluate the subject

       P           Performance Training - Identifies that the individual has performed the task to the satisfaction
                   of the course; however, the individual may not be capable of meeting the filed requirements
                   for speed and accuracy.

       pk          Performance Knowledge Training - The verb selection identifies the individual‘s ability to
                   relate simple facts, procedures, operating principles, and operational theory for the task.

       -           No training provided in the course or CDC.


       X           Training is required but not provided due to limitations in resources.

Each STS element is written as a behavioral statement. The detail of the statement and verb selection reflects the level of training
provided by resident training and career development courses.




                                                                    43
5. Specialty Training Standard, Attachment 2

Note 1: Task knowledge gained at BMT will not be repeated during resident training.
Note 2: AFQTPs are provided through multiple delivery systems (CD-ROM, video, or web.)
Completion is required for qualification or upgrade. For a current list of AFQTPs, access the
AFCESA web page:
https://wwwmil.afcesa.af.mil/Directorate/CEO/Training/QTPs/ceof_3e0x2.htm .
Note 3: Annotate AFQTP completion on the AFQTP Documentation Record, Attachment 3 that
follows the STS. Use the AFQTP Documentation Record to track knowledge training only.
Note 4: Annotate the STS only at the start and completion of hands-on training.
                                                2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                      Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course
                                                          ♦
                                                                                                                                 DL     Course CDC       Course     DL


 1 CE ORGANIZATION AND CAREER
   FIELD STRUCTURE
   TR: AFDD 2-4; AFIs 10-209, 10-210,
   10-211, 32-1001, 32-1022, 36-2101, 38-
   101; AFPC Enlisted Classification
   Directory; War Mobilization Plan
   (WMP)-1, Annex S
 1.1 Civil Engineer (CE) structure                                                                                       -       A        -       B        -         -
 1.2 Progression in career ladder                                                                                        -       A        -       B        -         -
 1.3 Duties and responsibilities                                                                                         -       -        -       -        -         -
 1.3.1 Peacetime                                                                                                         -       A        -       B        -         -
 1.3.2 Contingency                                                                                                       -       A        -       B        -         -
 1.4 Functions of                                                                                                        -       -        -       -        -         -
 1.4.1 Base Civil Engineer (BCE)                                                                                         -       A        -       B        -         -
 1.4.2 Prime BEEF                                                                                                        -       A        -       B        -         -
 1.4.3 RED HORSE                                                                                                         -       A        -       B        -         -
 1.4.4 HQ Air National Guard (ANG) Air                                                                                   -       A        -       B        -         -
       Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
 1.4.5 HQ Air Force Civil Engineer                                                                                       -        -       -       A        -         B
       Support Agency (AFCESA)
 1.4.6 HQ Air Force Center For                                                                                           -        -       -        -       -         A
       Environmental Excellence (AFCEE)
 1.4.7 Air Force Institute of Technology                                                                                 -        -       -        -       -         A
       (AFIT)
 1.4.8 Air Force Research Laboratory                                                                                     -        -       -        -       -         A
       (AFRL)
 1.5 Resources:                                                                                                          -        -       -        -       -         -
 1.5.1 Assess manpower requirements                                                                                      -        -       -        -       -         b
 1.5.2 Identify budget requirements                                                                                      -        -       -        -       -         b
 1.5.3 Determine equipment requirements                                                                                  -        -       -        -       -         b
 1.5.4 Use Allowance Standards (AS)                                                                                      -        -       -        -       -         b
 1.5.5 Research, Development, and                                                                                        -        -       -        -       -         -
       Acquisition (RD&A)
   TR: AFI 63-118
 1.5.5.1 Process                                                                                                         -        -       -        -       -         B
 1.5.5.2 Unit responsibilities                                                                                           -        -       -        -       -         B
 1.5.5.3 Major command responsibilities                                                                                  -        -       -        -       -         B

                                                          44
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course
                                                         ♦
                                                                                                                                DL     Course CDC       Course     DL


1.5.6 Assess vehicle requirements                                                                                       -        -       -        -       -         b
1.5.7 Requesting contract services                                                                                      -        -       -        -       -         b
1.5.8 Requesting Simplified Acquisition                                                                                 -        -       -        -       -         B
      of Base Engineering Requirements
      (SABER) contract
1.5.9 GEO Base technologies                                                                                             -        -       -       B        -         B
1.5.10 Quality Assurance Personnel                                                                                      -        -       -       -        -         -
      (QAP) duties
  TR: Federal Acquisition Regulation Part
      37.6; AFI 63-124; AFPAM 32-
      1004 Vol 2
1.5.10.1 Evaluate contractor's                                                                                          -        -       -        -       -         -
        performance
1.5.10.2 Document contractor's                                                                                          -        -       -        -       -         -
        performance
1.5.10.3 Maintain surveillance documents                                                                                -        -       -        -       -         -
2 SUPERVISION                                                                                                           -        -       -        -       -         -
  TR: AFIs 36-2201, 36-2406, 36-3401
2.1 Orient new personnel                                                                                                -        -       -        -       -         b
2.2 Assign personnel to work crew                                                                                       -        -       -        -       -         b
2.3 Coordinate work assignments                                                                                         -        -       -        -       -         b
2.4 Schedule work assignments and                                                                                       -        -       -        -       -         b
    priorities
2.5 Establish:                                                                                                          -        -       -        -       -         -
2.5.1 Work methods                                                                                                      -        -       -        -       -         b
2.5.2 Controls                                                                                                          -        -       -        -       -         b
2.5.3 Performance standards                                                                                             -        -       -        -       -         b
2.6 Evaluate work performance of                                                                                        -        -       -        -       -         b
    subordinate personnel
2.7 Resolve technical problems for                                                                                      -        -       -        -       -         b
    subordinate personnel
2.8 Direct projects                                                                                                     -        -       -        -       -         b
3 TRAINING                                                                                                              -        -       -        -       -         -
  TR: AFIs 36-2101, 36-2201; AFPD 36-
  22; AFPC Enlisted Classification
  Directory
3.1 Evaluate personnel to determine need                                                                                -        -       -       a        -         b
    for training
3.2 Enlisted specialty training supervision                                                                             -        -       -       -        -         -
3.2.1 Prepare job qualification standards                                                                               -        -       -       a        -         b
3.2.2 Conduct training                                                                                                  -        -       -       a        -         b
3.2.3 Counsel trainees on their progress                                                                                -        -       -       a        -         b
3.2.4 Monitor training effectiveness of                                                                                 -        -       -       -        -         -
3.2.4.1 Career knowledge                                                                                                -        -       -       a        -         b
3.2.4.2 Job proficiency upgrade                                                                                         -        -       -       a        -         b
3.2.4.3 Qualification                                                                                                   -        -       -       a        -         b
3.3 Maintain training records                                                                                           -        -       -       a        -         b
3.4 Evaluate training programs                                                                                          -        -       -       a        -         b
    effectiveness

                                                         45
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course
                                                         ♦
                                                                                                                                DL     Course CDC       Course     DL


3.5 Recommend people for training                                                                                       -        -       -       a        -         b
3.6 AETC training management system                                                                                     -        -       -       A        -         B
   (Training Allocation)
3.7 Managing Certification and Testing                                                                                  -        -       -       A        -         B
   (CerTest)
3.8 National/DoD Certification                                                                                          -        -       -       A        -         B
   requirements
3.9 Air Force Qualification Training                                                                                    -        -       -       A        -         B
   Package (AFQTP) Requirements
4 ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS                                                                                               -        -       -        -       -         -
  AND COMPLIANCE
  TR: AFI 32-7045; AFPD 32-70; EO
  12856
4.1 Environmental Compliance (ECAMP)                                                                                    -        -       -       A        -         B
4.2 Environmental Protection Agency                                                                                     -        -       -       A        -         B
   (EPA)
5 CE MANAGEMENT                                                                                                         -        -       -        -       -         -
  TR: AFIs 32-1001, 32-1022; AFPAMs
  32-1098, 32-1125 Vol 1; AFMAN 23-
  110
5.1 Customer relationships                                                                                              -       A        -       B        -         -
5.2 Work identification and authorization                                                                               -       -        -       A        -         B
5.3 Plan work requirements                                                                                              -       -        -       A        -         b
5.4 Plan logistics support (CEMAS,                                                                                      -       -        -       A        -         b
   BOM)
5.5 Government Purchase Card (GPC)                                                                                      -        -       -       A        -         B
   Program
5.6 Maintain Recurring Work Program                                                                                     -        -       -       A        -         b
   (RWP)
5.7 Scheduling/time accounting                                                                                          -        -       -       A        -         b
5.8 Warranty and Guarantee Program                                                                                      -        -       -       A        -         B
5.9 Property accountability                                                                                             -        -       -       A        -         B
5.10 Air Force Comprehensive Plan                                                                                       -        -       -       A        -         B
5.11 Legal limits                                                                                                       -        -       -       A        -         B
5.12 Mark "As Built" drawings                                                                                           -        -       -       A        -         b
5.13 Reimbursements procedures                                                                                          -        -       -       A        -         B
5.14 CE-Specific Automated Systems                                                                                      -        -       -       -        -         -
   (Computer) Capability
5.14.1 Perform inputs                                                                                                   -        -       -       a        -         b
5.14.2 Maintain files                                                                                                   -        -       -       a        -         b
5.14.3 Develop automated reports                                                                                        -        -       -       a        -         b
5.14.4 Extract automated reports                                                                                        -        -       -       a        -         b
5.14.5 Perform automated data analysis                                                                                  -        -       -       -        -         b
5.15 Host Tenant and Interservice                                                                                       -        -       -       -        -         A
   Agreements
5.16 Civil Engineer Civilian Management                                                                                 -        -       -        -       -         B
6 AF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND                                                                                            -        -       -        -       -         -
  HEALTH (AFOSH) PROGRAM
  TR: AFIs 91-301, 91-302

                                                         46
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course
                                                         ♦
                                                                                                                                DL     Course CDC       Course     DL


6.1 Supervisory responsibilities                                                                                       -         -       -       B        -         -
6.2 Hazardous materials waste handling                                                                                 A         -       -       B        -         -
6.3 Lead-based paint (LBP) hazard                                                                                      A         -       -       B        -         -
  TR: 29 CFR 1926.62; Working With
   Lead-Based Paint: Facts and
   Information Applicable to Air Force
   Facilities
6.4 Asbestos awareness                                                                                                 A         -       -       B        -         -
7 PUBLICATIONS                                                                                                         -         -       -       -        -         -
  TR: AFI 33-360 Vol 1
7.1 Military                                                                                                           A         -       -       B        -         -
7.2 Commercial                                                                                                         A         -       -       B        -         -
7.3 Engineering Technical Letters (ETL)                                                                                -         -       -       A        -         B
8 COMMUNICATIONS                                                                                                       -         -       -       -        -         -
  TR: AFIs 32-1043, 33-106; AFJMAN
  24-306
8.1 Use radios                                                                                                          b        -       -        -       -         -
8.2 Use hand signals                                                                                                    b        -       -        -       -         -
8.3 Respond to airdrome signals                                                                                         b        -       -        -       -         -
9 AFSC-SPECIFIC SAFETY                                                                                                  -        -       -        -                 -
  STANDARDS
  TR: AFPDs 91-2, 91-3; AFIs 91-302,
  32-1064; AFOSHSTD 91-501; NFPA
  70E; UFC3-560-01
9.1 AFOSH Standards for AFS                              *                                                             A         -       -       B        C         -
9.2 Remove victim from energized circuit                                                                               3c        -       -       c        -         -
9.3 Apply first aid procedures for shock                                                                               b         -       -       c        -         -
9.4 Perform cardiopulmonary                                                                                            3c        -       -       -        -         -
   resuscitation (CPR)
9.5 Manual lifting awareness                                                                                           A         -       -       B        -         -
9.6 Initial Federal Hazard                                                                                             A         -       -       -        -         -
   Communication Program (FHCTP)
  TR: DOD 6050.5-G-1; OSHA 29; CFR
   1910.1200; AFI 91.302
9.7 Fire extinguisher training                                                                                         A         -       -        -       -         -
10 AFSC SPECIFIC PUBLICATIONS                                                                                          -         -       -        -       -         -
  TR: TOs 0-1-01, 0-1-02, 00-2-1, 00-5-1,
  00-5-2, 00-20-7
10.1 Technical Order system                                                                                            A         -       -       B        -         -
10.2 Use technical orders                                *                                                             2b        -       -       c        -         -
10.3 Technical order improvement                                                                                       A         -       -       B        -         -
   reporting
10.4 Acquire technical orders                                                                                           -        -       -        -      2b         -
11 ELECTRICAL POWER                                                                                                     -        -       -        -       -         -
  PRODUCTION TOOLS AND TEST
  EQUIPMENT
  TR: AFIs 32-1031, 32-1044; TOs 32,
  33, 34, 35 Series
11.1 Use hand tools                                                                                                    2b        -       -        -       -         -

                                                         47
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course
                                                         ♦
                                                                                                                                DL     Course CDC       Course     DL


11.2 Specialized tools                                                                                                  -        -       -       B        -         -
11.3 Use engine performance test                                                                                        -        -       -       -        -         -
   devices:
11.3.1 Hand-held tachometer                                                                                             -        -       -       b        -         -
11.3.2 Compression tester                                                                                               -        -       -       b        -         -
11.4 Use electrical test equipment:                                                                                     -        -       -       -        -         -
11.4.1 Multimeter                                        *                                                             2b        -       -       c        -         -
11.4.2 Earth Resistance tester                                                                                         2b        -       -       c        -         -
11.4.3 Clamp-on ammeter                                                                                                1b        -       -       c        -         -
11.4.4 Megohmmeter                                                                                                      b        -       -       c        -         -
11.4.5 Battery load tester                                                                                              b        -       -       c        -         -
11.4.6 Phase rotation meter                                                                                            2b        -       -       c        -         -
12 GENERAL POWER PRODUCTION                                                                                             -        -       -       -        -         -
 TASKS
 TR: AFI 32-1062; TOs 32, 33, 34, 35
 Series; applicable manufacturer's
 manuals
12.1 Principles of corrosion control                                                                                   A         -       -       B        -         -
12.2 Types of engine pre-heating devices                                                                               A         -       -       B        -         -
12.3 Load Banks                                                                                                        -         -       -       -        -         -
12.3.1 Components and theory of                                                                                        A         -       -       B        -         -
     operation
12.3.2 Connect cables                                                                                                  1b        -       -       c        -         -
12.3.3 Configure for proper voltage                                                                                     b        -       -       c        -         -
12.3.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                     -        -       -       b        -         -
12.3.5 Inspect                                                                                                         1b        -       -       c        -         -
12.3.6 Replace components                                                                                               -        -       -       b        -         -
12.3.7 Operate                                                                                                          b        -       -       c        -         -
12.4 Battery Chargers                                                                                                   -        -       -       -        -         -
12.4.1 Components and theory of                                                                                        A         -       -       B        -         -
     operation
12.4.2 Troubleshoot                                              *                                                     1b        -       -       c        -         -
12.4.3 Inspect                                                                                                         1b        -       -       c        -         -
12.4.4 Replace components                                                                                               -        -       -       b        -         -
12.4.5 Adjust                                                                                                          1b        -       -       c        -         -
12.5 Perform soldering                                                                                                  -        -       -       b        -         -
13 ELECTRICAL FUNDAMENTALS                                                                                              -        -       -       -        -         -
 TR: TO 31-1-141 Series; applicable
 manufacturer's manuals
13.1 Basic electrical concepts and terms                                                                               B         -       -       B        -         -
13.2 Fundamentals of DC                                                                                                B         -       -       B        -         -
13.3 Fundamentals of AC                                                                                                B         -       -       B        -         -
13.4 Electrical components and symbols                                                                                 A         -       -       B        -         -
13.5 Test electrical components:                                                                                       -         -       -       -        -         -
13.5.1 Inductors                                                                                                       b         -       -       c        -         -
13.5.2 Capacitors                                                                                                      b         -       -       c        -         -
13.5.3 Resistors                                                                                                       b         -       -       c        -         -
13.6 Electronic components and symbols                                                                                 A         -       -       B        -         -


                                                         48
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course
                                                         ♦
                                                                                                                                DL     Course CDC       Course     DL


13.7 Principles of operation of                                                                                         -        -       -        -       -         -
   components:
13.7.1 Diodes                                                                                                          A         -       -       B        -         -
13.7.2 Inductors                                                                                                       A         -       -       B        -         -
13.7.3 Capacitors                                                                                                      A         -       -       B        -         -
13.7.4 Resistors                                                                                                       A         -       -       B        -         -
13.8 Interpret wiring diagrams                           *                                                             2b        -       -       c        -         -
14 GENERATOR SET GROUNDING                                                                                              -        -       -       -        -         -
 FUNDAMENTALS
 TR: AFI 32-1065
14.1 Grounding principles                                                                                               -        -       -       -        -         -
14.1.1 Static                                                                                                           B        -       -       B        -         -
14.1.2 Equipment                                                                                                        B        -       -       B        -         -
14.2 Install equipment grounds                           *                                                              b        -       -       c        -         -
14.3 Troubleshoot grounds                                                                                               b        -       -       c        -         -
15 ENGINE FUNDAMENTALS                                                                                                  -        -       -       -        -         -
 TR: AFJMAN 32-1080; TOs 35, 38
 Series
15.1 Gasoline engines                                                                                                  -         -       -       -        -         -
15.1.1 Components and theory of                                                                                        A         -       -       B        -         -
     operation
15.1.2 Engine malfunctions                               *                                                             A         -       -       B        -         -
15.1.3 Perform engine tune-up                            *                                                             1b        -       -       c        -         -
15.2 Diesel engines                                                                                                     -        -       -       -        -         -
15.2.1 Components and theory of                                                                                         -        -       -       -        -         -
     operation:
15.2.1.1 Two cycle                                                                                                     A         -       -       B        -         -
15.2.1.2 Four cycle                                                                                                    B         -       -       B        -         -
15.2.2 Engine malfunctions                                                                                             A         -       -       B        -         -
15.2.3 Inspect:                                                                                                        -         -       -       -        -         -
15.2.3.1 Camshaft                                                                                                      -         -       -       b        -         -
15.2.3.2 Vibration damper                                                                                              -         -       -       b        -         -
15.2.3.3 Timing gears                                                                                                  -         -       -       b        -         -
15.2.3.4 Cylinder head                                                                                                 -         -       -       b        -         -
15.2.3.5 Intake and exhaust valves                                                                                     -         -       -       b        -         -
15.2.3.6 Engine block                                                                                                  -         -       -       b        -         -
15.2.4 Replace:                                                                                                        -         -       -       -        -         -
15.2.4.1 Camshaft                                                                                                      -         -       -       b        -         -
15.2.4.2 Vibration damper                                                                                              -         -       -       b        -         -
15.2.4.3 Timing gears                                                                                                  -         -       -       b        -         -
15.2.4.4 Intake and exhaust valves                                                                                     -         -       -       b        -         -
15.2.4.5 Valve spring assemblies                                                                                       -         -       -       b        -         -
15.2.4.6 Cylinder head                                                                                                 -         -       -       b        -         -
15.2.4.7 Engine seals/gaskets                                                                                          -         -       -       b        -         -
15.2.5 Adjust:                                                                                                         -         -       -       -        -         -
15.2.5.1 Intake and exhaust valves                                                                                     -         -       -       b        -         -
15.2.5.2 Camshaft timing                                                                                               -         -       -       b        -         -



                                                         49
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course
                                                         ♦
                                                                                                                                DL     Course CDC       Course     DL


16 ENGINE DC ELECTRICAL                                                                                                 -        -       -        -       -         -
 SYSTEM
 TR: AFJMAN 32-1080; TO 35 Series
16.1 Components and theory of operation                                                                                B         -       -       B        -         -
16.2 Troubleshoot                                        *                                                              b        -       -       c        -         -
16.3 Use wiring diagrams                                 *                                                             2b        -       -       c        -         -
16.4 Inspect:                                                                                                           -        -       -       -        -         -
16.4.1 Battery charging alternator                                                                                      b        -       -       c        -         -
16.4.2 Starter motor                                                                                                    b        -       -       c        -         -
16.4.3 Starter solenoid                                                                                                 b        -       -       c        -         -
16.5 Replace:                                                                                                           -        -       -       -        -         -
16.5.1 Battery charging alternator                       *                                                              b        -       -       c        -         -
16.5.2 Starter motor                                     *                                                             1b        -       -       c        -         -
16.5.3 Starter solenoid                                                                                                 b        -       -       c        -         -
16.6 Batteries                                                                                                          -        -       -       -        -         -
16.6.1 Types                                                                                                           A         -       -       B        -         -
16.6.2 Service                                                                                                          b        -       -       c        -         -
16.6.3 Replace                                           *                                                             1b        -       -       c        -         -
17 ENGINE LUBRICATION SYSTEM                                                                                            -        -       -       -        -         -
 TR: AFI 32-1062; AFJMAN 32-1080;
 TOs 32, 33, 34, 35 Series
17.1 Components and theory of operation                                                                                B         -       -       B        -         -
17.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                                       b        -       -       c        -         -
17.3 Replace components:                                                                                                -        -       -       -        -         -
17.3.1 Oil pump                                                                                                         -        -       -       b        -         -
17.3.2 Oil cooler                                                                                                       -        -       -       b        -         -
17.3.3 Filter body                                                                                                      -        -       -       b        -         -
17.3.4 Sending units                                                                                                    -        -       -       b        -         -
17.3.5 Protective devices                                                                                               -        -       -       b        -         -
17.4 Service engine lubrication system                   *                                                             1b        -       -       c        -         -
17.5 Test lube oil                                                                                                     1b        -       -       c        -         -
18 FUEL SYSTEMS                                                                                                         -        -       -       -        -         -
 TR: AFI 32-1062; AFJMAN 32-1046,
 32-1080; TOs 32, 33, 34, 35 Series
18.1 Gasoline                                                                                                           -        -       -       -        -         -
18.1.1 Components and theory of                                                                                         B        -       -       B        -         -
     operation
18.1.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                                     b        -       -       c        -         -
18.1.3 Inspect:                                                                                                         -        -       -       -        -         -
18.1.3.1 Fuel pump                                                                                                      b        -       -       c        -         -
18.1.3.2 Filters/strainers                                                                                              b        -       -       c        -         -
18.1.3.3 Carburetors                                                                                                    b        -       -       c        -         -
18.1.4 Replace:                                                                                                         -        -       -       -        -         -
18.1.4.1 Fuel pump                                                                                                      -        -       -       b        -         -
18.1.4.2 Filters/strainers                                                                                              -        -       -       b        -         -
18.1.4.3 Carburetors                                                                                                    -        -       -       b        -         -
18.1.5 Adjust carburetor                                 *                                                             1b        -       -       c        -         -
18.2 Diesel                                                                                                             -        -       -       -        -         -


                                                         50
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course
                                                         ♦
                                                                                                                                DL     Course CDC       Course     DL


18.2.1 Types, components and theory of                                                                                  B        -       -       B        -         -
     operation
18.2.2 Troubleshoot                                      *                                                              b        -       -       c        -         -
18.2.3 Inspect:                                                                                                         -        -       -       -        -         -
18.2.3.1 Fuel transfer pumps                                                                                            b        -       -       c        -         -
18.2.3.2 Fuel injection pumps                                                                                           b        -       -       c        -         -
18.2.3.3 Filters/strainers                                                                                              b        -       -       c        -         -
18.2.4 Replace:                                                                                                         -        -       -       -        -         -
18.2.4.1 Fuel transfer pumps                                                                                            -        -       -       b        -         -
18.2.4.2 Fuel injection pumps                                                                                           -        -       -       b        -         -
18.2.4.3 Filters/strainers                               *                                                             1b        -       -       c        -         -
18.2.4.4 Injectors                                                                                                      -        -       -       b        -         -
18.2.4.5 Sending units                                                                                                  -        -       -       b        -         -
18.2.4.6 Protective devices                                                                                             -        -       -       b        -         -
18.2.5 Prime and bleed                                                                                                  b        -       -       c        -         -
18.2.6 Time fuel injection pumps                                                                                        a        -       -       b        -         -
18.2.7 Test fuel for water content                                                                                     1b        -       -       c        -         -
19 ENGINE COOLING SYSTEM                                                                                                -        -       -       -        -         -
 TR: AFI 32-1062; TO 35 Series
19.1 Components and theory of operation                                                                                B         -       -       B        -         -
19.2 Troubleshoot                                        *                                                              b        -       -       c        -         -
19.3 Inspect:                                                                                                           -        -       -       -        -         -
19.3.1 Water pump                                                                                                       b        -       -       c        -         -
19.3.2 Radiator                                                                                                         b        -       -       c        -         -
19.3.3 Hoses                                                                                                            b        -       -       c        -         -
19.3.4 Drive belts                                                                                                      b        -       -       c        -         -
19.3.5 Heater                                                                                                           b        -       -       c        -         -
19.3.6 Sending units                                                                                                    b        -       -       c        -         -
19.3.7 Protective devices                                                                                               b        -       -       c        -         -
19.3.8 Filters                                                                                                          b        -       -       c        -         -
19.4 Replace:                                                                                                           -        -       -       -        -         -
19.4.1 Water pump                                                                                                       -        -       -       b        -         -
19.4.2 Thermostat                                                                                                       b        -       -       c        -         -
19.4.3 Radiator                                                                                                         -        -       -       b        -         -
19.4.4 Hoses                                                                                                            -        -       -       b        -         -
19.4.5 Drive belts                                       *                                                              b        -       -       c        -         -
19.4.6 Heater                                                                                                           b        -       -       c        -         -
19.4.7 Sending units                                                                                                    b        -       -       c        -         -
19.4.8 Protective devices                                                                                               b        -       -       c        -         -
19.4.9 Filters                                                                                                          b        -       -       c        -         -
19.5 Maintain:                                                                                                          -        -       -       -        -         -
19.5.1 Service                                           *                                                             1b        -       -       c        -         -
19.5.2 Flush                                                                                                            b        -       -       c        -         -
19.5.3 Test antifreeze                                                                                                 1b        -       -       c        -         -
19.5.4 Coolant additives                                                                                                -        -       -       B        -         -
20 ENGINE GOVERNOR SYSTEMS                                                                                              -        -       -       -        -         -
 TR: AFI 32-1062; TO 35 Series
20.1 Hydraulic governors                                                                                                -        -       -        -       -         -


                                                         51
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course
                                                         ♦
                                                                                                                                DL     Course CDC       Course     DL


20.1.1 Components and theory of                                                                                        A         -       -       B        -         -
     operation
20.1.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                                     -        -       -       b        -         -
20.1.3 Inspect                                                                                                          b        -       -       c        -         -
20.1.4 Replace                                                                                                          -        -       -       b        -         -
20.1.5 Test over speed trip device                                                                                      -        -       -       b        -         -
20.1.6 Adjust:                                                                                                          -        -       -       -        -         -
20.1.6.1 Linkage                                                                                                        -        -       -       b        -         -
20.1.6.2 Controls                                                                                                       -        -       -       b        -         -
20.1.6.3 Over speed trip device                                                                                         -        -       -       b        -         -
20.1.7 Perform compensation adjustments                                                                                 -        -       -       b        -         -
20.2 Electronic Governors                                                                                               -        -       -       -        -         -
20.2.1 Components and theory of                                                                                         B        -       -       B        -         -
     operation
20.2.2 Troubleshoot                                              *                                                      -        -       -       b        -         -
20.2.3 Inspect:                                                                                                         -        -       -       -        -         -
20.2.3.1 Control module                                                                                                 b        -       -       c        -         -
20.2.3.2 Actuator                                                                                                       b        -       -       c        -         -
20.2.3.3 Magnetic pickup                                                                                                b        -       -       c        -         -
20.2.4 Replace:                                                                                                         -        -       -       -        -         -
20.2.4.1 Control module                                                                                                 b        -       -       c        -         -
20.2.4.2 Actuator                                                                                                       b        -       -       c        -         -
20.2.4.3 Magnetic pickup                                                                                                b        -       -       c        -         -
20.2.5 Test over speed trip device                                                                                      -        -       -       b        -         -
20.2.6 Adjust:                                                                                                          -        -       -       -        -         -
20.2.6.1 Droop                                           *                                                             1b        -       -       c        -         -
20.2.6.2 Gain                                            *                                                              b        -       -       c        -         -
20.2.6.3 Idle                                            *                                                              b        -       -       c        -         -
20.2.6.4 Run                                             *                                                              b        -       -       c        -         -
21 INTAKE AND EXHAUST                                                                                                   -        -       -       -        -         -
 SYSTEMS
21.1 Components and theory of operation                                                                                 B        -       -       B        -         -
 TR: AFI 32-1062; TO 35 Series;
   applicable manufacturer's manuals
21.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                                       b        -       -       b        -         -
21.3 Inspect:                                                                                                           -        -       -       -        -         -
21.3.1 Air cleaner/filter                                                                                              1b        -       -       c        -         -
21.3.2 Turbocharger                                                                                                    1b        -       -       c        -         -
21.3.3 Intercooler                                                                                                     1b        -       -       c        -         -
21.3.4 Intake manifold                                                                                                 1b        -       -       c        -         -
21.3.5 Exhaust manifold                                                                                                1b        -       -       c        -         -
21.3.6 Expansion joint                                                                                                 1b        -       -       c        -         -
21.3.7 Muffler                                                                                                         1b        -       -       c        -         -
21.4 Replace:                                                                                                           -        -       -       -        -         -
21.4.1 Air cleaner/filter                                                                                              1b        -       -       c        -         -
21.4.2 Turbocharger                                                                                                     -        -       -       b        -         -
21.4.3 Intercooler                                                                                                      -        -       -       b        -         -
21.4.4 Intake manifold                                                                                                  -        -       -       b        -         -


                                                         52
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course
                                                         ♦
                                                                                                                                DL     Course CDC       Course     DL


21.4.5 Exhaust manifold                                                                                                 -        -       -       b        -         -
21.4.6 Expansion joint                                                                                                  -        -       -       b        -         -
21.4.7 Muffler                                                                                                          -        -       -       b        -         -
22 AC GENERATING SYSTEM                                                                                                 -        -       -       -        -         -
 TR: AFJMAN 32-1082; AFI 32-1062;
 TO 35 Series; applicable manufacturer's
 manuals
22.1 Alternator                                                                                                        -         -       -       -        -         -
22.1.1 Components and theory of                                                                                        A         -       -       B        -         -
     operation
22.1.2 Test                                                                                                            -         -       -       b        -         -
22.1.3 Inspect:                                                                                                        -         -       -       -        -         -
22.1.3.1 Rectifier assembly                                                                                            b         -       -       c        -         -
22.1.3.2 Surge suppressor                                                                                              b         -       -       c        -         -
22.1.3.3 Windings                                                                                                      b         -       -       c        -         -
22.1.4 Replace:                                                                                                        -         -       -       -        -         -
22.1.4.1 Rectifier assembly                                                                                            -         -       -       b        -         -
22.1.4.2 Surge suppressor                                                                                              -         -       -       b        -         -
22.1.4.3 Alternator assembly                                                                                           -         -       -       b        -         -
22.2 Controls                                                                                                          -         -       -       -        -         -
22.2.1 Components and theory of                                                                                        A         -       -       B        -         -
     operation
22.2.2 Troubleshoot                                              *                                                     -         -       -       b        -         -
22.2.3 Inspect:                                                                                                        -         -       -       -        -         -
22.2.3.1 Voltage regulator                                                                                             b         -       -       c        -         -
22.2.3.2 Exciter                                                                                                       b         -       -       c        -         -
22.2.3.3 Transformers                                                                                                  b         -       -       c        -         -
22.2.3.4 Control panel components                                                                                      b         -       -       c        -         -
22.2.4 Replace:                                                                                                        -         -       -       -        -         -
22.2.4.1 Voltage regulator                                                                                             -         -       -       b        -         -
22.2.4.2 Exciter                                                                                                       -         -       -       b        -         -
22.2.4.3 Transformers                                                                                                  -         -       -       b        -         -
22.2.4.4 Control panel components                                                                                      b         -       -       c        -         -
22.3 Protective devices                                                                                                -         -       -       -        -         -
22.3.1 Components and theory of                                                                                        A         -       -       B        -         -
     operation
22.3.2 Inspect:                                                                                                         -        -       -       -        -         -
22.3.2.1 Circuit breakers                                                                                               -        -       -       b        -         -
22.3.2.2 Relays                                                                                                         -        -       -       b        -         -
22.3.2.3 Fuses                                                                                                         1b        -       -       c        -         -
22.3.2.4 Diodes                                                                                                         -        -       -       b        -         -
22.3.3 Test:                                                                                                            -        -       -       -        -         -
22.3.3.1 Relays                                                                                                        1b        -       -       c        -         -
22.3.3.2 Fuses                                                                                                         1b        -       -       c        -         -
22.3.3.3 Diodes                                          *                                                             1b        -       -       c        -         -
22.3.4 Replace:                                                                                                         -        -       -       -        -         -
22.3.4.1 Circuit breakers                                                                                               -        -       -       b        -         -
22.3.4.2 Relays                                                                                                         -        -       -       b        -         -


                                                         53
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course
                                                         ♦
                                                                                                                                DL     Course CDC       Course     DL


22.3.4.3 Fuses                                           *                                                             1b        -       -       c        -         -
22.3.4.4 Diodes                                                                                                         b        -       -       c        -         -
23 STANDBY GENERATOR SET                                                                                                -        -       -       -        -         -
 TR: AFIs 32-1062, 32-1063; applicable
 manufacturer's manuals
23.1 Perform:                                                                                                           -        -       -       -        -         -
23.1.1 Pre-operational inspection                                                                                      2b        -       -       c        -         -
23.1.2 Operational inspection                                                                                          2b        -       -       c        -         -
23.1.3 Post-operational inspection                                                                                     2b        -       -       c        -         -
23.1.4 Unit operation                                                                                                  2b        -       -       c        -         -
23.1.5 Periodic Inspections and                                                                                         -        -       -       -        -         -
     Preventive Maintenance:
23.1.5.1 Weekly                                                                                                         -        -       -       b        -         -
23.1.5.2 Monthly                                                                                                        -        -       -       b        -         -
23.1.5.3 Semi-annual                                                                                                    -        -       -       b        -         -
23.1.5.4 Annual                                                                                                         -        -       -       b        -         -
23.1.6 Emergency shutdown                                                                                               b        -       -       c        -         -
23.2 Annotate generator set                                                                                             b        -       -       c        -         -
   maintenance/operating record
24 AUTOMATIC TRANSFER                                                                                                   -        -       -        -       -         -
 SWITCHES
 TR: AFI 32-1063; TO 35CA6 Series;
 applicable manufacturer's manuals
24.1 Components and theory of operation                                                                                A         -       -       B        -         -
24.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                                      -         -       -       b        -         -
24.3 Determine compatibility between                                                                                   -         -       -       B        C         -
   transfer switch, generator, and
   electrical service
24.4 Install                                                                                                            -        -       -       b        -         -
24.5 Inspect                                                                                                           1b        -       -       c        -         -
24.6 Replace components                                                                                                 -        -       -       b        -         -
24.7 Test                                                                                                              1b        -       -       c        -         -
24.8 Adjust                                                                                                             -        -       -       b        -         -
25 AIRCRAFT ARRESTING SYSTEMS                                                                                           -        -       -       -        -         -
 TR: TO 35E8-2 Series; AFI 32-1043
25.1 MA-1A and E5 Barrier;                                                                                             A         -       -       B        -         -
   Components, theory of operation, and
   configuration
25.2 BAK-9 Aircraft Arresting System;                                                                                  A         -       -       B        -         -
   Components, theory of operation and
   configuration
25.3 BAK-12 Aircraft Arresting System                                                                                   -        -       -       -        -         -
25.3.1 Components, theory of operation                                                                                  B        -       -       B        -         -
     and configuration
25.3.2 Troubleshoot:                                                                                                    -        -       -       -        -         -
25.3.2.1 Brake assembly                                                                                                 -        -       -       b        -         -
25.3.2.2 Rewind system                                                                                                  -        -       -       b       2b         -
25.3.2.3 Hydraulic system                                                                                               -        -       -       b       2b         -


                                                         54
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course
                                                         ♦
                                                                                                                                DL     Course CDC       Course     DL


25.3.3 Perform periodic inspections and                                                                                 -        -       -        -       -         -
     preventive maintenance
25.3.3.1 Daily                                                                                                          b        -       -       c        -         -
25.3.3.2 Weekly                                                                                                         b        -       -       c        -         -
25.3.3.3 Monthly                                                                                                       1b        -       -       c        -         -
25.3.3.4 Quarterly                                                                                                      b        -       -       c        -         -
25.3.3.5 Semi-annual                                                                                                    b        -       -       c       2b         -
25.3.3.6 After arrestment                                                                                               b        -       -       c        -         -
25.3.4 Replace components of:                                                                                           -        -       -       -        -         -
25.3.4.1 Rewind system                                                                                                  -        -       -       b        -         -
25.3.4.2 Hydraulic system                                                                                               -        -       -       b        -         -
25.4 BAK-14 Support System;                                                                                            A         -       -       B        -         -
   Components, theory of operation and
   configuration
25.5 BAK-15 Aircraft Arresting System;                                                                                 A         -       -       B        -         -
   Components, theory of operations and
   configuration
25.6 Textile Brake Aircraft Arresting                                                                                  A         -       -       B        -         -
   System; Components, theory of
   operation and configuration
25.7 Type H Support System;                                                                                            A         -       -       B        -         -
   Components, theory of operation and
   configuration
26 AFSC SPECIFIC CONTINGENCY                                                                                            -        -       -        -       -         -
 RESPONSIBILITIES
 TR: AFIs 10-210, 10-211, 32-1062, 32-
 1063, 32-1065; NEC; TOs 35C and 35E
 series; Army TMs 10-8340-207-14, 10-
 450-200-12; WMP-1, Annex S, (Mar
 95); AFPAM 10-219, Vol 2, 3, 4 & 5
26.1 Mobile generators                                                                                                 -         -       -       -        -         -
26.1.1 200 kW or less                                                                                                  -         -       -       -        -         -
26.1.1.1 Construction Features and                                                                                     A         -       -       B        -         -
       Components
26.1.1.2 Set up generator for connection                                                                                -        -       -        -       -         -
       to load
26.1.1.2.1 Position generator                                                                                           b        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.1.2.2 Connect generator to ground                                                                                 1b        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.1.2.3 Configure for proper voltage                  *                                                              b        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.1.2.4 Cables                                                                                                       -        -       -       -        -         -
26.1.1.2.4.1 Selection                                                                                                 A         -       -       B        C         -
26.1.1.2.4.2 Phase identification                                                                                      B         -       -       B        C         -
26.1.1.2.4.3 Connect                                     *                                                             1b        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.1.2.5 Check phase rotation                          *                                                             1b        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.1.3 Perform:                                                                                                       -        -       -       -        -         -
26.1.1.3.1 Pre-operational inspection                    *                                                             2b        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.1.3.2 Operational inspection                        *                                                             2b        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.1.3.3 Post-operational inspection                   *                                                             2b        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.1.3.4 Single unit operation                         *                                                             2b        -       -       c        -         -

                                                         55
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course
                                                         ♦
                                                                                                                                DL     Course CDC       Course     DL


26.1.1.3.5 Parallel unit operation                       *                                                             1b        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.1.3.6 Scheduled inspections                                                                                        -        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.1.4 Test generator set using load                                                                                 1b        -       -       c        -         -
       bank
26.1.1.5 Disconnect generator from load                                                                                1b        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.1.6 Troubleshoot:                                                                                                  -        -       -       -        -         -
26.1.1.6.1 Engine system                                                                                                b        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.1.6.2 Electrical system                                                                                           2b        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.1.7 Calculate:                                                                                                     -        -       -       -        -         -
26.1.1.7.1 kW load                                       *                                                             1b        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.1.7.2 Amperage load                                                                                               1b        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.1.7.3 Facility power requirements                   *                                                              -        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.1.7.4 Fuel requirements                             *                                                             1b        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.2 MEP-012 Generator                                                                                                -        -       -       -        -         -
 TR: TO 35C2-3-473-1
26.1.2.1 Construction Features and                                                                                     A         -       -       B        -         -
       Components
26.1.2.2 High voltage safety                                                                                           B         -       -       B        -         -
26.1.2.3 Installation:                                                                                                  -        -       -       -        -         -
26.1.2.3.1 Site selection                                                                                              B         -       -       B        -         -
26.1.2.3.2 Position                                      ♦                                                              b        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.2.3.3 Ground                                        ♦                                                              b        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.2.4 Set up fuel storage area                                                                                       b        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.2.5 Connect fuel supply                                                                                            b        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.2.6 Perform:                                                                                                       -        -       -       -        -         -
26.1.2.6.1 Pre-operational inspection                    ♦                                                             2b        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.2.6.2 Operational inspection                        ♦                                                             2b        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.2.6.3 Post-operational inspection                   ♦                                                             2b        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.2.6.4 Single unit operation                         ♦                                                             2b        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.2.6.5 Parallel unit operation                       ♦                                                             2b        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.2.6.6 Remote operation                              ♦                                                             2b        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.2.6.7 Shutdown procedures                                                                                         2b        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.2.7 Perform scheduled inspections                                                                                  -        -       -       -        -         -
26.1.2.7.1 Mechanical                                    ♦                                                              -        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.2.7.2 Low voltage                                   ♦                                                              -        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.2.7.3 High voltage                                  ♦                                                              -        -       -       c        -         -
26.1.2.8 Troubleshoot:                                                                                                  -        -       -       -        -         -
26.1.2.8.1 Engine systems                                ♦                                                              -        -       -       b        -         -
26.1.2.8.2 Electrical systems                                                                                           -        -       -       -        -         -
26.1.2.8.2.1 Low voltage                                 ♦                                                              -        -       -       b        -         -
26.1.2.8.2.2 High voltage                                ♦                                                              -        -       -       b        -         -
26.1.3 Equipment operation in extreme                                                                                  A         -       -       B        -         -
     conditions
26.1.4 Emergency (battle override)                                                                                     A         -       -       B        -         -
     operation
26.1.5 Emergency evacuation procedures                                                                                 A         -       -       B        -         -
     (demolition)



                                                         56
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course
                                                         ♦
                                                                                                                                DL     Course CDC       Course     DL


26.2 Mobile Aircraft Arresting System                                                                                   -        -       -        -       -         -
   (MAAS)
 TR: TOs 35E8-2-10-3, 35E8-2-5-4,
   35E8-2-10-1S-1, 35E8-2-11-1, 35E8-
   2-11-2; AFPAM 10-219, Vol 3, 4 & 5;
   AFIs 13-217, 32-1043; AFH 10-222
26.2.1 Components, theory of operation                                                                                  B        -       -       B        -         -
     and configuration
26.2.2 Installation planning                                                                                            -        -       -       -        B         -
26.2.3 Inspection and Maintenance                                                                                       -        -       -       A        B         -
     management
26.2.4 Perform unidirectional installation                                                                              -        -       -       -        -         -
26.2.4.1 Soil                                            ♦                                                             1b        -       -       c        -         -
26.2.4.2 Concrete                                        ♦                                                             1b        -       -       c        -         -
26.2.4.3 Asphalt over soil                                                                                              b        -       -       c        -         -
26.2.4.4 Asphalt over concrete                                                                                          b        -       -       c        -         -
26.2.5 Perform bidirectional installation                                                                               -        -       -       -        -         -
26.2.5.1 Soil                                                                                                           b        -       -       c        -         -
26.2.5.2 Concrete                                                                                                       b        -       -       c        -         -
26.2.6 Attach hook cable                                 ♦                                                             1b        -       -       c        -         -
26.2.7 Tension hook cable                                ♦                                                             2b        -       -       c        -         -
26.2.8 Proof load installation                           ♦                                                              b        -       -       c        -         -
26.2.9 Reconstitute MAAS                                                                                               1b        -       -       c        -         -
26.2.10 Perform MAAS periodic                                                                                           -        -       -       -        -         -
     inspections and preventive
     maintenance
26.2.10.1 Daily                                          ♦                                                              b        -       -       c        -         -
26.2.10.2 Weekly                                         ♦                                                              b        -       -       c        -         -
26.2.10.3 Monthly                                        ♦                                                              b        -       -       c        -         -
26.2.10.4 Quarterly                                      ♦                                                             1b        -       -       c        -         -
26.2.10.5 Semi-annual                                    ♦                                                              b        -       -       c        -         -
26.2.10.6 After arrestment                               ♦                                                             1b        -       -       c        -         -
26.2.11 Troubleshoot:                                                                                                   -        -       -       -        -         -
26.2.11.1 Brake assembly                                 ♦                                                              -        -       -       b        -         -
26.2.11.2 Rewind assembly                                ♦                                                              -        -       -       b        -         -
26.2.11.3 Hydraulic system                               ♦                                                              -        -       -       b        -         -
26.2.11.4 Trailer hydraulic system                       ♦                                                              -        -       -       b        -         -
26.2.12 Replace components:                                                                                             -        -       -       -        -         -
26.2.12.1 Rewind assembly                                                                                               -        -       -       b        -         -
26.2.12.2 Hydraulic system                                                                                              -        -       -       b        -         -
26.2.12.3 Trailer hydraulic system                                                                                      -        -       -       b        -         -
26.2.13 Determine tape replacement                                                                                      a        -       -       b        c         -
     using Regime Chart
26.2.14 Lightweight fairlead beam                                                                                       -        -       -        -       -         -
     (LWFB)
 TR: TO 35E8-2-11-2
26.2.14.1 Installation                                                                                                  -        -       -       -        -         -
26.2.14.1.1 Site selection                                                                                              B        -       -       B        -         -
26.2.14.1.2 Position                                     ♦                                                              b        -       -       c        -         -

                                                         57
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course
                                                         ♦
                                                                                                                                DL     Course CDC       Course     DL


26.2.14.1.3 Reeve tape                                                                                                  b        -       -       c        -         -
26.2.14.1.4 Anchoring system                             ♦                                                              b        -       -       c        -         -
26.2.14.1.5 Perform final alignment                      ♦                                                              b        -       -       c        -         -
26.2.14.2 Perform LWFB periodic                                                                                         -        -       -       -        -         -
       inspections:
26.2.14.2.1 Daily                                                                                                       b        -       -       c        -         -
26.2.14.2.2 Monthly                                                                                                     b        -       -       c        -         -
26.2.15 Mobile Runway Edge Sheaves                                                                                      -        -       -       -        -         -
     (MRES)
 TR: TO 35E8-2-3-1
26.2.15.1 Installation                                                                                                  -        -       -       -        -         -
26.2.15.1.1 Soil                                         ♦                                                              b        -       -       c        -         -
26.2.15.1.2 Concrete                                                                                                    b        -       -       c        -         -
26.2.15.1.3 Perform final alignment                      ♦                                                              b        -       -       c        -         -
26.2.15.2 Perform MRES periodic                                                                                         -        -       -       -        -         -
       inspections:
26.2.15.2.1 Daily                                                                                                       b        -       -       c        -         -
26.2.15.2.2 Monthly                                                                                                     b        -       -       c        -         -
26.3 Contingency Planning Factors                                                                                       -        -       -       -        -         -
 TR: AFPAM 10-219, Vol 5; AFH 10-
   222, Vol 1, 2, 5 & 8
26.3.1 Airfield operations                                                                                              -        -       -       -        B         -
26.3.2 Basic Expeditionary Airfield                                                                                     -        -       -       A        B         -
     Resources (BEAR) power generation
26.4 Expedient bed down methods using                                                                                   -        -       -        -       -         -
   BEAR assets
 TR: AFPAM 10-219, Vol 2 & 5
26.4.1 Tent lighting installation                                                                                      A         -       -       B        -         -
 TR: AFPAM 10-219, Vol 2
26.4.2 Remote Area Lighting System                                                                                     A         -       -       B        -         -
     (RALS) installation
 TR: AFPAM 10-219, Vol 5; TO 00-
     105-12
26.4.3 Telescopic floodlight set                                                                                        -        -       -        -       -         -
 TR: T0 35F5-5-21-1; AFPAM 10-219,
     Vol 5; L-6 light set reference
26.4.3.1 Install                                                                                                       1b        -       -       c        -         -
26.4.3.2 Inspect                                                                                                       1b        -       -       c        -         -
26.4.3.3 Operate                                                                                                       1b        -       -       c        -         -
26.4.3.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                   -        -       -       b        -         -
26.4.3.5 Maintain                                                                                                       -        -       -       -        -         -
26.4.4 Emergency Airfield Lighting                                                                                     A         -       -       B        -         -
     System (EALS)
 TR: AFPAM 10-219, Vol 3, 4 & 5




                                                         58
                                                 2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                 3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                            Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course
                                                           ♦
                                                                                                                                  DL     Course CDC       Course     DL


  26.4.5 Electrical distribution system                                                                                   -        -       -        -       -         -
       installation
   TR: TOs 00-105K-2, 35C6-9-1, 35E4-
       169-1, 40W4-9-1C, 40W4-13-1,
       50D-1-3-1; AFPAM 10-219, Vol 2,
       3, 4 & 5; AFI 32-1065
  26.4.5.1 Primary distribution system                                                                                   A         -       -       B        -         -
  26.4.5.2 Secondary distribution system                                                                                 A         -       -       B        -         -
  26.4.6 Connect generator to Secondary                                                                                  b         -       -       c        -         -
       Distribution Center (SDC)
  26.5 Initial Deployable Kitchen (IDK)                                                                                  A         -       -       B        -         -
     generator
  26.6 Chemically Hardened Air                                                                                           A         -       -       B        -         -
     Management Plant (CHAMP)
     generator and transfer panel
  26.7 Foreign electrical systems                                                                                         -        -       -       A        -         -
   TR: AFIs 32-1062, 32-1065; TOs 00-
     105A, 35C2-3, 35C6 Series
  26.8 Special purpose vehicles/equipment                                                                                 -        -       -        -       -         -
   TR: AFIs 10-210, 23-101, 24-301, 91-
     207; AFPD 25-1; AFOSHSTD 91-46;
     AFPAM 10-219, Vol 4; TA 12; TOs
     36A12, 36C12 Series
  26.8.1 HMMVW                                                                                                            -        -       -        -       -         -
  26.8.2 Front end loader with forklift                                                                                   -        -       -        -       -         -
       attachment
  26.8.3 Dump truck                                                                                                       -        -       -        -       -         -
  26.8.4 Electric line truck                                                                                              -        -       -        -       -         -

Note: BLK #4: Columns (1) & (2) can be relabeled to meet CF Requirements; i.e., 2-phase 3-skill level course, 5-lvl QTPs.




                                                           59
60
       6. AFQTP Documentation Record, Attachment 3


                                AFQTP Documentation Record
                                     For AFSC 3E0X2
- Download applicable AFQTPs at
  https://wwwmil.afcesa.af.mil/Directorate/CEO/Training/QTPs/ceof_3e0x2.htm
- Trainers/Certifiers enter their name and initials in the identification block at beginning of the STS
- Upon administering AFQTPs, enter start date in Column 4 of this record
- Upon completion of each unit, document Columns 5, 6, and 7
- Upon completion of applicable CerTests, trainer will place the completion date in Column 8
- Transcribe by entering current date in Columns 5 and 8, Trainees & Trainer‘s Initials in Columns 6 & 7
NOTE 1: Diamond tasks(♦)are extremely important to the career field. Diamond tasks are the same as core
        tasks with one exception--equipment shortfalls at most locations have created problems with the actual
        hands-on certification of these tasks. In instances where required equipment is not available for
        instruction, completion of the task‘s AFQTP and passing the corresponding CerTest fulfills the
        requirement for upgrade training. Hands-on certification shall be accomplished at the first opportunity
        when equipment is available. In locations where the equipment is available for hands-on certification,
        CerTest completion is still a mandatory requirement.      SEE NOTE 1
  TASK           TASKS, KNOWLEDGE, AND TECHNICAL
                                                                                 ** 7 LEVEL
                                                                                 *5 LEVEL

                                                                                              START DATE




                                                                                                                        INITIALS
                                                                                                                        TRAINEE’S
                                                                                                           COMPLETION




                                                                                                                                    TRAINER’S
 NUMBER          REFERENCES




                                                                                                                                     INITIALS
                                                                                                              DATE

    10.      AFS-SPECIFIC PUBLICATIONS
             Ref: AFQTP Module 10 – AFS-SPECIFIC PUBLICATIONS

    10.2.    Use technical orders             **
                                                       *
    11.     ELECTRICAL POWER PRODUCTION TOOLS AND TEST EQUIPMENT
            Ref: AFQTP Module 11 – ELECTRICAL POWER PRODUCTION TOOLS AND TEST
            EQUIPMENT
    11.4.1. Multimeter
                 *     (Use electrical test equipment)
                                                       *
    12.     GENERAL POWER PRODUCTION TASKS
            Ref: AFQTP Module 12 – GENERAL POWER PRODUCTION TASKS

    12.4.2 Troubleshoot (Battery Chargers)                                       **
    13.      ELECTRICAL FUNDAMENTALS
             Ref: AFQTP Module 13 – ELECTRICAL FUNDAMENTALS

    13.8     Interpret wiring diagrams
                                                                                  *



                                                   61
   1         2                                                    3                   4             5           6           7




                                                       SEE NOTE 1
 TASK        TASKS, KNOWLEDGE, AND TECHNICAL




                                                                      ** 7 LEVEL
                                                                      *5 LEVEL


                                                                                   START DATE


                                                                                                DATE
                                                                                                COMPLETION

                                                                                                             INITIALS
                                                                                                             TRAINEE'S


                                                                                                                         INITIALS
                                                                                                                         TRAINER’S
NUMBER       REFERENCES




  14.     GENERATOR SET GROUNDING FUNDAMENTALS
          Ref: AFQTP Module 14 – GENERATOR SET GROUNDING FUNDAMENTALS

 14.2.    Install equipment grounds
                                                                       *

  15.     ENGINE FUNDAMENTALS
          Ref: AFQTP Module 15 – ENGINE FUNDAMENTALS

 15.1.2   Engine Malfunctions (Components and theory
          of operation, gasoline engines)                              *

 15.1.3   Perform gasoline engine tune-up
                                                                       *

  16.     ENGINE DC ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
          Ref: AFQTP Module 16 – ENGINE DC ELECTRICAL SYSTEM

 16.2.    Troubleshoot
                                                                       *

 16.3     Use wiring diagrams
                                                                       *

16.5.1.   Battery charging alternator (Replace)
                                                                       *

 16.5.2   Starter motor (Replace)
                                                                       *

16.6.3.   Replace (Batteries)
                                                                       *

  17.     ENGINE LUBRICATION SYSTEM
          Ref: AFQTP Module 17 – ENGINE LUBRICATION SYSTEM

 17.4.    Service engine lubrication system
                                                                       *




                                                  62
                                                                                                                  3E0X2


   1           2                                                         3                   4            5             6           7




                                                              SEE NOTE 1
 TASK          TASKS, KNOWLEDGE, AND TECHNICAL




                                                                             ** 7 LEVEL
                                                                             *5 LEVEL


                                                                                          START DATE


                                                                                                       DATE
                                                                                                       COMPLETE

                                                                                                                     INITIALS
                                                                                                                     TRAINEE'S


                                                                                                                                 INITIALS
                                                                                                                                 TRAINER’S
NUMBER         REFERENCES




  18.
            FUEL SYSTEMS
            Ref: AFQTP Module 18 – FUEL SYSTEMS
 18.1.5.    Adjust carburetor (Gasoline)
                                                                              *

18.2.2.     Troubleshoot (Diesel)
                                                                              *

18.2.4.3.   Filters/strainers (Replace components (Diesel))
                                                                              *

  19.
            ENGINE COOLING SYSTEMS
            Ref: AFQTP Module 19 – ENGINE COOLING SYSTEMS
  19.2      Troubleshoot
                                                      *

 19.4.5     Drive belts (Replace components)
                                                                              *

 19.5.1     Service
                                                                              *

  20.       ENGINE GOVERNOR SYSTEMS
            Ref: AFQTP Module 20 – ENGINE GOVERNOR SYSTEMS

20.2.2.     Troubleshoot (Electronic governors)
                                                                             **

20.2.6.1.   Droop (Adjust (Electronic governors))
                                                                              *

20.2.6.2.   Gain (Adjust (Electronic governors))
                                                                              *

20.2.6.3.   Idle (Adjust (Electronic governors))
                                                                              *

20.2.6.4.   Run (Adjust (Electronic governors))
                                                                              *




                                                    63
                                                                                                                   3E0X2


    1          2                                                          3                   4            5             6           7




                                                               SEE NOTE 1
  TASK         TASKS, KNOWLEDGE, AND TECHNICAL




                                                                              ** 7 LEVEL
                                                                              *5 LEVEL


                                                                                           START DATE


                                                                                                        DATE
                                                                                                        COMPLETE


                                                                                                                      INITIALS
                                                                                                                      TRAINEE'S

                                                                                                                                  INITIALS
                                                                                                                                  TRAINER’S
 NUMBER        REFERENCES




    22.     AC GENERATING SYSTEM
            Ref: AFQTP Module 22 – AC GENERATING SYSTEM

  22.2.2.   Troubleshoot (Controls)
                                                                              **

 22.3.3.3   Test Diodes
                                                                               *

 22.3.4.3   Fuses (Replace)
                                                                               *

    26.
            AFSC SPECIFIC CONTINGENCY RESPONSIBILITIES
            Ref: AFQTP Module 26 – AFSC SPECIFIC CONTINGENCY RESPONSIBILITIES
26.1.1.2.3. Configure for proper voltage (200kW or less)
                                                         *

26.1.1.2.4.3 Connect (Cables (200kW or less)
      .                                                                        *

26.1.1.2.5. Check phase rotation (200kW or less)
                                                                               *

26.1.1.3.1. Pre-operational inspection (Perform (200kW or
            less)                                                              *

26.1.1.3.2. Operation inspection (Perform (200kW or less)
                                                                               *

26.1.1.3.3. Post-operational inspection (Perform (200kW or
            less)                                                              *

26.1.1.3.4. Single unit operation (Perform (200kW or less)
                                                                               *

26.1.1.3.5. Parallel unit operation (Perform (200kW or less)
                                                                               *

26.1.1.7.1 KW Load (Calculate)
                                                                               *




                                                 64
                                                                                                              3E0X2


    1          2                                                     3                   4            5            6           7




                                                          SEE NOTE 1
 TASK          TASKS, KNOWLEDGE, AND TECHNICAL




                                                                         ** 7 LEVEL
                                                                         *5 LEVEL


                                                                                      START DATE


                                                                                                   DATE
                                                                                                   COMPLETE

                                                                                                                INITIALS
                                                                                                                TRAINEE'S

                                                                                                                            INITIALS
                                                                                                                            TRAINER’S
NUMBER         REFERENCES




26.1.1.7.3   Facility Power Requirements (Calculate)
                                                                          *

26.1.1.7.4   Fuel Requirements (Calculate)
                                                                          *

26.1.2.3.2. Position (Installation MEP-12 Generator)
                                                                         

26.1.2.3.3. Ground (Installation MEP-12 Generator)
                                                                         

26.1.2.6.1. Pre-operational inspection (Perform, MEP-12
            Generator)                                                   

26.1.2.6.2. Operational inspection (Perform, MEP-12
            Generator)                                                   

26.1.2.6.3. Post-Operational Inspection
                                                                         

26.1.2.6.4. Single unit operation (Perform, MEP-12
            Generator)                                                   

26.1.2.6.5. Parallel unit operation (Perform, MEP-12
            Generator)                                                   


                                                                           




                                                65
                                                                                                                    3E0X2




    1            2                                                        3               4            5          6           7           8




                                                           SEE NOTE 1
  TASK           TASKS, KNOWLEDGE, AND




                                                                          ** 7 LEVEL
                                                                          *5 LEVEL

                                                                                       START DATE


                                                                                                    DATE
                                                                                                    COMPLETE

                                                                                                               INITIALS
                                                                                                               TRAINEE'S

                                                                                                                           INITIALS
                                                                                                                           TRAINER’S

                                                                                                                                       COMP DATE
                                                                                                                                       CerTest
 NUMBER          TECHNICAL REFERENCES




    26.       AFSC SPECIFIC CONTINGENCY RESPONSIBILITIES
              REF: AFQTP MODULE 26 – AFSC SPECIFIC CONTINGENCY RESPONSIBILITIES

26.1.2.6.6.   Remote operation (Perform, MEP-12
              Generator)                                                  

 26.1.2.7.1   Mechanical (Perform Scheduled
              Inspections, MEP-12 Generator)                              

 26.1.2.7.2   Low Voltage (Perform Scheduled
              Inspections, MEP-12 Generator)                              

 26.1.2.7.3   High Voltage (Perform Scheduled
              Inspections, MEP-12 Generator)                              

26.1.2.8.1.   Engine systems (Troubleshoot MEP-12
              Generator)                                                  

26.1.2.8.2.1. Low voltage (Troubleshoot Electrical
              Systems MEP-12 Generator)                                   

26.1.2.8.2.2. High voltage (Troubleshoot Electrical
              Systems MEP-12 Generator)                                   

 26.2.4.1.    Soil (Perform Unidirectional Installation,
              MAAS)                                                       

  26.2.4.2    Concrete ( Perform Unidirectional
              Installation, MAAS)                                         

  26.2.6.     Attach hook cable (Perform Unidirectional
              Installation (MAAS))                                        

  26.2.7.     Tension hook cable (Perform Unidirectional
              Installation (MAAS))                                        

  26.2.8.     Proof load installation (Perform
              Unidirectional Installation (MAAS))                         


                                                    66
                                                                                                                        3E0X2


    1            2                                                         3               4            5          6            7          8




                                                            SEE NOTE 1
  TASK           TASKS, KNOWLEDGE, AND




                                                                           ** 7 LEVEL
                                                                           *5 LEVEL

                                                                                        START DATE


                                                                                                     DATE
                                                                                                     COMPLETE

                                                                                                                INITIALS
                                                                                                                TRAINEE'S

                                                                                                                            INITIALS
                                                                                                                            TRAINER’S

                                                                                                                                        COMP DATE
                                                                                                                                        CerTest
 NUMBER          TECHNICAL REFERENCES




26.2.10.1.    Daily (Perform MAAS periodic inspection
              and preventive maintenance)                                  

26.2.10.2.    Weekly (Perform MAAS periodic
              inspection and preventive maintenance)                       

26.2.10.3.    Monthly (Perform MAAS periodic
              inspection and preventive maintenance)                       

26.2.10.4.    Quarterly (Perform MAAS periodic
              inspection and preventive maintenance)                       

26.2.10.5.    Semi-annual (Perform MAAS periodic
              inspection and preventive maintenance)                       

26.2.10.6.    After-arrestment (Perform MAAS periodic
              inspection and preventive maintenance)                       

26.2.11.1.    Brake assembly (Troubleshoot MAAS)
                                                                           

26.2.11.2.    Rewind assembly (Troubleshoot MAAS)
                                                                           

26.2.11.3.    Hydraulic system (Troubleshoot MAAS)
                                                                           

26.2.11.4.    Trailer hydraulic (Troubleshoot MAAS)
                                                                           

26.2.14.1.2. Position (Installation Light-Weight
             Fairlead Beam (LWFB) (MAAS)                                   

26.2.14.1.4 Install LightWeight Fairlead Beam
            (LWFB) (MAAS)                                                  

26.2.14.1.5. Perform final alignment (Installation Light-
             Weight Fairlead Beam (MAAS))                                  

26.2.15.1.1. Soil Installation (Mobile Runway Edge                         
             Sheaves (MRES), (MAAS)


                                                   67
                                                                                                                  3E0X2


     1          2                                                    3               4            5          6            7          8




                                                      SEE NOTE 1
 TASK           TASKS, KNOWLEDGE, AND




                                                                     ** 7 LEVEL
                                                                     *5 LEVEL

                                                                                  START DATE


                                                                                               DATE
                                                                                               COMPLETE

                                                                                                          INITIALS
                                                                                                          TRAINEE'S

                                                                                                                      INITIALS
                                                                                                                      TRAINER’S

                                                                                                                                  COMP DATE
                                                                                                                                  CerTest
NUMBER          TECHNICAL REFERENCES




26.2.15.1.3. Perform Final Alignment (Mobile Runway                  
             Edge Sheaves (MAAS))




                                             68
                                                                                  3E0X2


                    SECTION B - COURSE OBJECTIVE LIST (COL)

7. Course Objective List. Lists all training course objectives (knowledge and tasks).
(Optional) This area is reserved.




                                           69
                                                                                     3E0X2


                          SECTION C - SUPPORT MATERIALS

8. CerTest.

     8.1. CerTest is a program that uses computer-based evaluation to ensure skilled craftsmen
     are available to meet the Air Force's changing needs. It enhances upgrade and
     qualification training by testing and evaluating an individual's knowledge of the principles
     and procedures in each specialty.

          8.1.1. The program contains tests used evaluate task knowledge received through
          different media such as paper products (text), videotapes, and computer–based
          programs.

          8.1.2. The CerTest program contains mandatory tests, required for upgrade. All
          diamond (♦) coded tasks on the STS have a corresponding mandatory test or
          associated test with the web-based QTP.

          8.1.3. CerTest is also a powerful training management tool. It can be used to find
          the strengths and weaknesses in an individual's training and experience. CerTest
          automatically records and updates all test results. The training manager can copy
          records to a disk so that an individual can bring current, accurate training
          information to a new unit; thereby helping the gaining supervisor evaluate the
          trainee's knowledge and experience.

     8.2. CerTest also enables unit personnel to develop site-specific tests. These custom-
     made tests standardize testing on tasks unique to a specific duty station and/or assignment.
     The program contains a graphics library that may be used along with a menu-driven test
     editor to develop these site-specific tests.

     8.3. CerTest also contains optional CDC pre-evaluation tools. Volume review exercises
     are available for progress checks after each volume is completed. After all volumes are
     completed in a set, the trainee may take the course review exercise before taking the final
     End-of-Course exam at the base training office. Commanders are encouraged to integrate
     these tools in their unit‘s OJT program.

     8.4. CerTest has been adopted as the Air Force platform for future electronic CDC testing.
     The Air Force Institute for Distributive Learning (AFIADL) began using CerTest on 1
     June 2000. Currently, all CE AFSs are allowed to use AFIADL‘s CerTest on installations
     where base Test Control Facilities (TCFs) are equipped. See your UETM for further
     information.

     8.5. The mandatory CerTests for each AFSC are identified, by number, with their
     corresponding AFQTP on the 3E0X2 AFQTP Documentation Record.

     8.6. For a complete list of up-to-date AFQTPs applicable to the 3E0X2 AFSC see our web
     page at https://wwwmil.afcesa.af.mil/Directorate/CEO/Training/QTPs/ceof_3e0x2.htm

                                            70
                                                                                     3E0X2


                        SECTION D - TRAINING COURSE INDEX

9. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the specialty.
Refer to the Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA) web site,
https://etca.randolph.af.mil/ for complete information on Air Force resident and MTT courses.

10. Air Force Resident/Mobile Training Team (MTT) Courses.

Course Number             Title                                                   Developer

J3ABR3E032 00AB          Electrical Power Production Apprentice                   366 TRS

J3AZR3E072 00BA          Bare Base Power Generation                               366 TRS

J3AZR3E072 00AA          Power Generation Planning, Operations and Maintenance         366 TRS

J3AZR3E072 00TA          Troubleshooting Electrical Power Equip                   366 TRS

J7AZT3E052 00AA          Aircraft Arresting Systems BAK-9/BAK-12 (MTT)            366 TRS

J7AZT3E052 00HA          Hook Cable Support BAK-14 (MTT)                          366 TRS

J7AZT3E052 00MB          Mobile Aircraft Arresting Systems (MAAS) (MTT)           366 TRS


11. Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning (AFIADL) Courses.

Course Number            Title                                                Date

CDC 3E052C               Electrical Power Production Journeyman             1 Jun 08

CDC 3E052D               Electrical Power Production Journeyman             1 Jun 08


12. Exportable Courses/Information.

Distance Learning (DL)                          Course Title                      Developer

Three-Level STS Items 1 thru 6      Civil Engineer 3-Level Common Core             Contractor


Seven-Level STS Items 1 thru 6      Civil Engineer 7-Level Common Core            Contractor




                                           71
                                                                           3E0X2




13. Courses Under Development/Revision

Course Number          Course Title                                 Developer

J3AZR3E052 00CA       Contingency Power Generation                  366 TRS
(Replaces J3AZR3E072 00BA Bare Base Power Generation (Diesel))

J3AZR3E052 00TA       Troubleshooting Electrical Power Generating Equipment
                                                                     366 TRS
(Replaces J3AZR3E072 00TA Troubleshooting Electrical Power Generation Equipment)

J7AZT3E052 00AB       Aircraft Arresting Systems BAK-12           366 TRS
(Replaces J7AZT3E052 00AA Aircraft Arresting Systems/BAK-9/BAK-12)

J7AZT3E052 00HB       Hook Cable Support System, BAK-14             366 TRS
(Replaces J7AZT3E052 00HA Hook Cable Support System, BAK-14)




                                       72
                                                                         3E0X2


                SECTION E – MAJCOM-UNIQUE REQUIREMENTS

14. There are currently no MAJCOM-unique requirements. This area is reserved.




                                      73
                                                                                      3E0X2


                         SECTION F - HOME STATION TRAINING

15. Purpose. The purpose of this section is to identify the tasks, training references, and training
sources available in support of contingency/wartime training. Prime BEEF forces will train to
meet the full range of tasks expected in the contingency environment. Training ranges from
knowledge-type training conducted in a classroom (CAT 1), to task-oriented hands-on (CAT II)
training conducted in the field. These training requirements, frequencies, and sources are listed
in AFI 10-210, Prime Base Emergency Engineer Force (BEEF) Program.

    15.1. Home Station Training (HST). HST is training that is conducted at the individual‘s
    home station for contingency operations. The Civil Engineer Commander ensures training
    is provided and documented and arranges for subject matter experts to conduct training as
    required. Home Station training requirements fall into two categories, CAT I and CAT II.

           15.1.1. Category I (CAT I) Training. Personnel assigned to base level Civil
           Engineer units will receive initial and refresher training in all CAT I (knowledge-
           based) topics as shown in AFI 10-210, Chapter 4, Attachment 2. Units will use
           Readiness Training Packages (RTPs), Qualification Training Packages (QTPs), other
           multimedia training packages, videos, and AF CE standardized lesson plans to present
           the material. MAJCOMs may develop and require other training materials to
           accomplish knowledge-based training.

                   15.1.1.1. Prime BEEF Orientation/General Contingency. Upon
                   assignment to the unit, all military and emergency-essential civilian
                   employees will be trained on the unit‘s Prime BEEF and Emergency
                   Management missions. The training will emphasize the individual‘s role and
                   how he or she fits into the program. It will also include an overview of Civil
                   Engineer Doctrine and explain the organization, training, equipment,
                   operating concepts, and contingency missions pertaining to the unit.

                   15.1.1.2. General Contingency Responsibilities CD-ROM (GCRCD).
                   Personnel may receive annual credit for the applicable CAT I training through
                   completion of one of two available GCRCDs (one for 3-level civil engineers;
                   the second for all other personnel). The 3-level product is a detailed version
                   specifically designed for use as initial CAT I training. Use of this product has
                   become critical in light of recent reductions in technical Prime BEEF training
                   and education. All Airmen should complete this course within 90 days upon
                   arrival at their first duty station (6 months for ARC members). A second
                   GCRCD product is available as an optional source for attaining recurring CAT
                   I training for those tasks identified in AFI 10-210, Attachment 2. Duplication
                   of both CDs is strongly encouraged. All courses on CD-ROM are located on
                   the AFCESA Virtual Learning Center.
                   https://afcesa.csd.disa.mil/kc/login/login.asp?kc_ident=kc0005




                                             74
                                                                        3E0X2




15.1.2. Category II (CAT II) Training. CAT II training is primarily hands-on
training as outlined in AFI 10-210, Chapter 4, Attachment 3. Units must make every
effort to incorporate realism into their respective CAT II training programs. Field
gear (to include primary weapons) will be used during training requirements such as,
personal/work party security, convoy operations, defensive fighting positions, etc.

       15.1.2.1. Combat Skills Training (CST). CST must be institutionalized as
       an integral part of any CAT II HST program. Lessons learned from
       operations such as IRAQI FREEDOM have taught us the importance of
       maintaining a higher level of combat readiness. Although the inclusion of
       combat skills-focused training into HST does not fully prepare CE personnel
       to work in a high threat combat environment, the steps taken to enhance CAT
       II training will help elevate units to a readiness level capable of supporting
       safe and effective operations in low to medium risk combat environments.

       15.1.2.2. Mission Essential Equipment Training (MEETS). Wartime or
       contingency environments often involve the use of specialized and unique
       mission-essential equipment the Civil Engineers do not use in their day-to-
       day operations. Due to the cost and complexity, mission essential
       contingency equipment and trainer expertise are not commonly found at
       CONUS installations. Personnel must be hands-on certified and the
       certification documented in their CFETP. AFI 10-210 Tables 4.1- 4.6
       identify minimum personnel to be trained, positions by specialty, frequencies
       and locations of training sites. Inadequate training on these key equipment
       items can negatively impact Air Force contingency operations.

15.1.3. Category III (CAT III) Training. Team Training Venues

       15.1.3.1. Silver Flag Exercise Sites (CAT III). Silver Flag Exercise Sites
       are located at Tyndall AFB, FL; Ramstein AB, Germany; and Kadena AB,
       Japan and conduct CAT III training with their major focus on students being
       able to perform critical contingency task in a team environment. The training
       focuses on bare base beddown and sustainment operations using hands-on
       training with BEAR equipment in a realistic beddown environment. Where
       possible, combat skills training has been added to the curriculum to ensure
       realism and help fortify combat skills mentality amongst teams. All CE
       personnel who fill Unit Type Code (UTC) positions will receive team
       training at Silver Flag Exercise Sites with the exception of members on
       headquarters staff augmentation UTCs, pavement evaluation UTCs, and
       generator repair and maintenance UTCs.




                                75
                                                                             3E0X2


15.2. Training References.

      15.2.1. AFI 10-210, Prime Base Engineer Emergency Force (BEEF) Program.
      Chapter four of AFI 10-210 identifies the Prime BEEF recurring training
      requirements. You can review this document by going to the Air Force publications
      web site. Attachment 2 to the AFI is a list of HST CAT I training requirements and
      Attachment 3 lists CAT II training requirements.

      15.2.2. Air Force Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA).
      The ETCA is located at the following URL: https://etca.randolph.af.mil
      It lists additional training/educational opportunities available for civil engineer
      personnel. This catalog contains information on formal education and training
      courses. The catalog is continuously updated by the formal technical school Training
      Managers when anything in the ETCA changes.

      15.2.3. Readiness Training Package (RTP). RTPs are lesson plans for HST lessons.
      RTPs are intended for those personnel who teach any area of HST. The index and
      RTPs are located on the AFCESA/CEX web page. The URL for this information is
      https://wwwmil.afcesa.af.mil/Directorate/CEX/CEXX/ContingencyTrng/default.html

      15.2.4. AFCESA/CEX. Maintains a comprehensive listing of audiovisual products
      that support the contingency training program. To view this listing as well as gain
      information on how to order specific audiovisual products, please consult the AFCESA
      Contingency Support page, see URL above.




                                      76
