DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                        CFETP 1C0X2
Headquarters US Air Force                          Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                          30 June 2013



                            AFSC 1C0X2
                  AVIATION RESOURCE MANAGEMENT




                            CAREER FIELD
                     EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                                                        (CFETP)

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                                  CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                  AVIATION RESOURCE MANAGEMENT SPECIALTY
                                                                       AFSC 1C0X2

                                                                   Table of Contents
PART I
Preface ............................................................................................................................................... 4

Abbreviations/Terms Explained........................................................................................................ 5

Section A, General Information ........................................................................................................ 8
Purpose of the CFETP
Use of the CFETP
Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B, Career Field Progression and Information ...................................................................... 9
Specialty Description
Skill/Career Progression
       Apprentice Level (3)
       Journeyman Level (5)
       Craftsman Level (7)
       Superintendent Level (9)
Training Decisions
Community College of the Air Force
Career Field Flowchart

Section C, Skill Level Training Requirements ................................................................................. 15
Purpose
Specialty Qualification Requirements
       Apprentice (3) Level/Journeyman (5) Level Training Requirements
       Craftsman (7) Level Training Requirements

                                                                                 2
          Superintendent (9) Level Training Requirements

Section D, Resource Constraints ....................................................................................................... 17
Section E, Transitional Training Guide (This area reserved) ........................................................... 17



Part II


Section A -- Specialty Training Standard (STS) .............................................................................. 17
Section B -- Course Objective List (This area reserved) .................................................................. 34
Section C – On the Job (OJT) Support Material ............................................................................... 34
Section D -- Training Course Index .................................................................................................. 34
Section E -- MAJCOM Formal Schools ........................................................................................... 34




______________
OPR: HQ USAF/A3O-AIF(CMSgt Philip Kreiser)
Certified by: HQ USAF/A3O-AI (Col David M. Vardaman)
Supersedes: CFETP1C0X2, 9 February 2009
Number of Printed Pages: 34


                                                                        3
                         AVIATION RESOURCE MANAGEMENT SPECIALTY
                                               AFSC 1C0X2
                         CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN


PART I
PREFACE
1. The CFETP is a comprehensive core-training document that identifies life-cycle training and education
requirements, training support resources, and minimum core task requirements for every specialty. The
CFETP will provide Aviation Resource Management personnel a clear career path to success and instill
sound objectivity in unit level training.
1.1. Compliance with the provisions contained within this CFETP is mandatory.
1.2. The CFETP consists of two parts; both parts of the plan are used by supervisors to plan, manage, and
control training within the career field.
2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A explains
how to use the plan. Section B identifies career progression, duties, responsibilities, training strategies
and career field path. Section C associates each skill level with specialty qualifications (knowledge,
training, education, and experience). Section D indicates resource constraints i.e., funds, manpower,
equipment, and facilities. NOTE: See Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD) for job
descriptions.
2.2. Part II includes:
Section A
Identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and includes duties, tasks, technical references to support
training, Air Education and Training Command (AETC) training conducted, wartime course/core task and
correspondence course requirements. The STS is placed at the end of the CFETP because it requires a
different page formatting, and so that it may be easily separated from the CFETP if required.
Section B Identifies the Initial and Advanced Skills Course objective list.
Section C Identifies available OJT support materials. Qualification training packages identified in this
section have been developed to support both upgrade and qualification training.
Section D Contains the Training Course Index and identifies courses available for the specialty.
Section E Identifies MAJCOM Formal schools.
3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive effective and
efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan will enable us to train today’s work
force for tomorrow’s jobs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and
conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.




                                                      4
ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED
Advanced Training (AT). Formal course that provides individuals qualified in one or more positions of
the Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance their career field expertise.
Training is for selected career Airmen at the advanced level of the AFS.
Air Force Job Qualification Standard/Command Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS/ CJQS). A
comprehensive task list that describes a particular job type or duty position. They are used by supervisors
to document task qualifications. The tasks on AFJQS/CJQS are common to all persons serving in the
described duty position.
Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). CFETP is a comprehensive core-training
document that identifies: life-cycle education and training requirements; training support resources, and
minimum core task requirements for a specialty. The CFETP aims to give personnel a clear path and
instill a sense of industry in career field training.
Certification. A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required standards.
Certification test. A test of one’s ability to perform at the required skill level or Special Experience
Identifier (SEI) qualification.
Continuation Training. Additional training exceeding requirements with emphasis on present or future
duty assignments.
Core Task. Tasks identified by the Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) as minimum qualification
requirements within an AFS regardless of duty position. This core knowledge must be maintained
through local or recurring training.
Critical Task. Tasks which affect pay entitlements, safety of flight or other items determined by the
MAJCOM, Group or Squadron 1C0X2 Functional Manager (FM) as identified in the Master Training
Plan. These tasks will be identified by a “+” in column 2 of the STS.
Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training
(on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a specialty.
Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video, or other
necessary means to supplement training.
Go/No-Go. The stage at which an individual has gained enough skill, knowledge, and experience to
perform the tasks without supervision. Meeting the task standard.
Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly, but flexible process for planning,
developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures personnel are taught the
knowledge, skills, and attitudes essential for successful job performance in a cost efficient way.
Initial Skills Training. A formal resident course which results in award of the entry level AFSC.
Job Qualification Standard (JQS). Defines locally assigned duty position, home station training, and
deployment/UTC requirements not included in the CFETP, Part II. It is also used to develop the Air
Force job qualification standard (AFJQS) and the command job qualification standard (CJQS) if deemed
necessary by the AFCFM.




                                                      5
Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational survey
of tasks performed within a particular AFS which affects the development of the STS, course
development, WAPS testing and enlisted career field classification.
On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training to certify personnel in both upgrade
(skill level award) and job qualification (duty position certification) training.
Optimal Training. The ideal combination of training settings resulting in the highest levels of
proficiency on specified performance requirements within the minimum time possible.
Process. All applicable steps to complete the task.
Proficiency Certification. Recurring task certification which is required to be performed on certain
critical tasks to ensure a minimum level of proficiency is maintained. All individuals possessing SEI 066
will accomplish an Advanced Aviation Resource Manager Refresher on a biennial basis. Refer to AFI
11-421.
Qualification Training (QT). Hands-on performance training designed to qualify an individual in a
specific duty position. This training occurs both during and after the upgrade training process to maintain
up-to-date qualifications. It is designed to provide the performance skills required to do the job.
Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional package designed for use at the unit to qualify,
or aid qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of equipment. It may be printed,
computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.
Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and equipment
that preclude desired training from being delivered.
Skills Training. A formal course which results in the award of a skill level.
Special Experience Identifier (SEI). SEIs identify special experience and training not otherwise
reflected in the classification system. They are established when identifying experience or training
critical to the job and person assignment match, and no other identification is appropriate or available.
Specialty Training. A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (on-the-job) to
qualify and upgrade Airmen in the award of a skill level.
Specialty Training Requirements Team (STRT) - Held 4 months prior to a Utilization and Training
Workshop (U&TW), the primary purpose is for career field functional leaders to determine and present
training requirements to the AETC Training Pipeline Manager (TPM) and Training Manager (TM).

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes skills and knowledge that
an Airman in a particular Air Force specialty needs on the job. It further serves as a contract between the
AETC and the user to show the overall training requirements for an Air Force specialty code taught in
formal schools and CDCs.
Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, established and defined by authority, custom, or common
consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring quantities or qualities, establishing practices
or procedures, or evaluating results. A fixed quantity or quality.
Task Module (TM). A group of tasks performed within an Air Force specialty that are performed
together and that require common knowledge, skills, and abilities. TMs are identified by an identification
code and a statement.

                                                      6
Total Force. All collective USAF components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian elements).
Trainer. A trained and qualified person who teaches personnel to perform specific tasks through OJT
methods. Also equipment that the trainer uses to teach personnel specified tasks.
Training Business Area (TBA). A Web-based application providing global, real-time visibility into the
technical qualifications, certifications and training status of logistics, communications and information
professionals Air Force wide.
Training Capacity. The capability of a training setting to provide training on specified requirements,
based on the availability of resources.
Training Requirements Analysis. A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFS to be included in the
training decision process.
Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-the-job,
field training, mobile training team, self-study, computer based training (CBT), web-based training
(WBT), etc.).
Upgrade Training (UGT). Mandatory training which leads to attainment of a higher level of proficiency
and award of a skill level.
Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum comprised of the AFCFM, MAJCOM
Functional Managers (MFM), Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training personnel that
determines career ladder training requirements.
Wartime Tasks. Those tasks that must be taught when courses are accelerated in a wartime environment.
They are identified in CFETP Part II, section A, (STS Column 1) by an asterisk preceding the task. In
response to a wartime scenario, these tasks will be taught in the 3-level course in a streamlined training
environment.




                                                    7
SECTION A - GENERAL INFORMATION
1. Purpose. This CFETP provides information necessary for the AFCFM, MFMs, commanders, training
managers, supervisors, trainers and trainees to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective career
field training program. This plan outlines the training that individuals in this AFS should receive and a
qualification level to maintain in order to develop and progress throughout their career. This plan
identifies initial skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency training. Initial skills training is
the AFS specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon retraining into this
specialty for award of the 3-skill level. Normally, this training is conducted by AETC at one of the
technical training centers. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification
requirements, and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, and 9-skill
levels. Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an Airman
in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade training
process. It is designed to provide the performance skills/knowledge required to do the job. Advanced
training is formal specialty training used for selected Airmen. Proficiency training is additional training,
either in-residence or exportable advanced training courses, or on-the-job training, provided to personnel
to increase their skills and knowledge. The CFETP has several purposes, some are:
1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field training program.
It is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an individual career.
1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual's career.
1.2.1 When the proficiency codes are the same for 5-level and 7-level CDCs, the 7-level trainee will
receive enhanced instruction.
1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and the training
delivery method.
1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired career field
training process.
2. Uses. The plan will be used by MFMs, CHARMs, 1C0X2 training program managers, and supervisors
at all levels to ensure comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for every individual in
the specialty.
2.1. AETC training personnel will develop/revise formal resident, non-resident, field and exportable
training based on requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of the CFETP. They
will also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to
provide the identified training.
2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial, upgrade,
qualification, and proficiency requirements.
2.3. Each individual must complete the mandatory training requirements specified in AFI 11-421. The
lists of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.
3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority.
Also, the AFCFM will initiate an annual review of this document to ensure currency and accuracy.
MAJCOM representatives and AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field
training requirements. Use the list of courses in Part II to eliminate duplicate training.
                                                        8
SECTION B - CAREER PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION
4. Specialty Descriptions. See paragraphs 1 and 2 of the most current AFECD for the official specialty
descriptions.
4.1. Specialty Summary. See the most current AFECD, paragraph 1.
4.2. Duties and Responsibilities. See the most current AFECD, paragraph 2. Because AFECD has been
reduced to one or two pages, the following paragraphs include a more detailed narrative of duties and
responsibilities.
5. Skill/Career Progression.
5.1. Apprentice (3) Level/Journeyman (5) Level.
Initiates actions to execute aviation/parachutist management policy and procedures; interviews aircrew
members/parachutists to obtain aviation/parachutists-related data. Maintains control and accountability of
flight/jump records, including aircrew qualification data in Aviation Resource Management System
(ARMS), medical recommendations for flying/parachutist duty, aeronautical orders (AOs), physiological
training, centrifuge training, certification of aviation/parachutist qualification, flying/jump attachment
letters, aviation service data and flying/parachutist history. Prepares and processes aeronautical orders
and military pay orders. Performs in and out processing functions for members required to be on
aeronautical orders. Schedules aircrew flying and ground training and maintains mission information and
planning data.
Assists in establishing flying schedules and aircraft and aircrew assignments. Prepares reports, and
coordinates aircraft schedules and aircrew training activities with maintenance, communication,
armament, intelligence, personnel and medical units. Prepares flight authorizations and monitors
individual flight/jump requirements and allocated flying hours.
Compiles, records, and audits data for ARMS. Processes aviation/parachutist management reports and
source documents to ensure accuracy of information; distributes reports and lists for aircrew/parachutist
resource management.
Extracts, compiles, and collates aircrew/parachutist training and aircrew/parachutist resource management
information. Develops analytical information and documentation. Analyzes database to determine
adequacy and accuracy of automated systems.
Executes Aviation Resource Management (ARM) responsibilities as they pertain to deployed flying/jump
operations. These responsibilities include determining network connectivity (hardware/software), ARM
logistics, aircrew/parachutist currency products, flying time maximum products and forms necessary to
perform ARM functions.
5.2. Craftsman (7) Level.
Plans, schedules and supervises ARMS functions. Plans and schedules aircrew and aircraft missions.
Maintains aircrew/parachutist mission information; ensures most efficient use of available resources
allotted to ARM functions. Reviews aircrew training mission accomplishment reports for accuracy.
Analyzes and summarizes reports and aircrew/parachutist training and resource data. Develops and
maintains aircrew/parachutist training profiles. Monitors aircrew flying time and flying hour utilization.
Determines the media for most effective presentation of data and prepares narrative summaries. Assists
work center supervisory personnel in interpreting and using ARMS reports and information.

                                                     9
Performs technical aircrew/parachutist resource management functions. Reviews personnel action
requests on aircrew members and parachutists to determine the effect on their status; monitors individual
entitlement to incentive pay. Monitors flight physicals, physiological training, aircrew/parachutist
qualification requirements. Analyzes higher headquarters reports and policies as they affect the
aircrew/parachutist resource management program. Maintains control and accountability of ARMS.
Acts as technical adviser on matters pertaining to ARMS. Assists aircrew/parachutist managers in using
ARMS reports. Facilitates aircrew/parachutist procedural changes with user and other agencies (e.g.,
scheduling, stan/eval, and aircrew training) to ensure accurate and timely implementation. Maintains
liaison with Work Group Managers (WGM), ARMS Working Groups (AWG), ARMS Advisory Group
(AAG). Network Control Center (NCC), and Field Assistance Service (FAS) to ensure timely system
operations.
Inspects and evaluates ARM functions, Manages ARM OJT, (e.g., develops Master JQS, conducts OJT,
and inspects OJT documentation). Validates work center certifications upon reassignment. Analyzes
management reports to determine adequacy and accuracy; problem areas and trends; and initiates
remedial action. Inspects ARM files of functional publications/directives for current guidance. Submits
recommendations to office of primary responsibility (OPR) for change to publications/directives (AF
Form 847). Reviews ARM procedures and recommends changes for increased efficiency and services.
Inspects production and maintenance of flight/jump records, flight/jump/parachutist management files,
and ARMS reports. Inspects completed work and evaluates individual/group performance.
Manages execution of ARM responsibilities as they pertain to deployed flying operations. These
responsibilities include determining a point of contact for network connectivity (hardware/software),
ARM logistics, aircrew currency products, flying time maximum products, and forms necessary to
perform ARM functions.
5.3. Superintendent (9) Level
Plans, organizes, schedules, directs, and evaluates workloads and duty assignments of ARM personnel.
Evaluates work methods and procedures to achieve the most economical use of resources and ARM
functions. Manages and evaluates ARM functions and conducts liaison duties with mission support
agencies to reduce common problems, improve procedures, and increase efficiency. Oversees ARMS
operations; evaluates system capability and provides enhancement recommendations. Requisitions and
accounts for equipment, space, supplies, and other required resources to support ARM functions.
Inspects and evaluates ARM functions to determine AFI compliance and operational readiness, and to
assist in solving ARM and personnel problems. Oversees wing/base ARM OJT program and ensures
compliance with CFETP and other applicable directives. Makes recommendation to MFM for changes to
CFETP. Reviews inspection findings with supervisory personnel and initiates/recommends actions to
eliminate discrepancies. Interprets policies and instructions for ARM functions. Reviews new
instructions for content and applicability and notifies appropriate personnel of changes. Writes ARM
policy; coordinates and submits recommended changes on other aircrew/parachutist instructions.
Evaluates ARM responsibilities or procedures as they pertain to deployed flying operations.
5.4. Advanced Aviation Resource Manager Special Experience Identifier (SEI). An individual must
obtain and maintain the SEI 066 before being assigned CHARM duties and responsibilities IAW the most
current AFECD (Exception: Air Reserve Component (ARC) civilians hired into the CHARM position
must successfully complete the Advanced Aviation Resource Manager course within one year of

                                                    10
assignment to the position; technicians must qualify under the military requirement). Master Sergeants
and above (and GS-7 equivalents) with a control AFSC of 1C072, and Technical Sergeants assigned to
SEI 066 coded positions are eligible for award of the SEI. SEI 066 will be awarded based on the
following: 1) 7-skill level or above as Aviation Resource Manager (ARM); 2) Completion of the
Advanced Aviation Resource Management Course; 3) Two years of (current) ARM experience. The
AFCFM, MAJCOM 1C0X2 Functional Managers (and assistants), MAJCOM selected 1C0X2 inspectors,
ARMS Functional Analysts, CHARM, CHARM Assistant, and Advanced Aviation Resource Manager
Course instructors at Keesler schoolhouse (to include CDC writer) will obtain the SEI. Biennial
Refresher will be accomplished to maintain the SEI qualification. AFCFM is the waiver authority for the
SEI.
6. Training Decisions. This CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to encompass
the entire spectrum of training requirements for the 1C0X2 career field. The spectrum includes the
strategy of when, where, and how to meet these training requirements. The strategy must be apparent and
affordable to reduce duplication of training and eliminate a fragmented approach to training. The training
decisions were made during the STRT held 3-7 December 2012 and utilizing the ISD process as
implemented by the 334 TRS during training planning and course development.
6.1. Initial Skills Training. All personnel entering the ARM specialty will complete the 3-skill level
resident training course. (See NOTE 1, paragraph 6.6.)
6.2. Five Level Upgrade Training Requirements. Upgrade training to the 5-skill level will be
accomplished IAW AFI 36-2201, AFI 11-421, AFECD, and this CFETP. Maximum upgrade time is 24
months (also applies to civilian hires). 6.3. Seven-Skill Level Upgrade Training Requirements. Enter
personnel in 7-skill level upgrade training IAW AFI 36-2201, AFI 11-421, AFECD, and this CFETP.
Maximum upgrade time is 24 months (also applies to civilian hires). Exception: Traditional ARC
members’ maximum upgrade time is 36 months.
NOTE 1. Supervisors will process maximum time upgrade waiver requests for extenuating
circumstances (e.g., extended deployments and absence of training) IAW Part 1, paragraph 6.8 of this
CFETP and the AFI 36-2201.
NOTE 2. Supervisors/Trainers will teach the trainee about OJT record documentation and maintenance,
building a master JQS, evaluating personnel, setting up training programs, mentoring, how to upgrade a
trainee’s skill level, etc. Trainees may be trained without actually being assigned as someone’s supervisor
(e.g., one-man shop).
However, if possible, it is recommended they be assigned at least one person to supervise to provide
practical application.
6.4. Nine-Skill Level Upgrade Training Requirements. Upgrade training to the 9-skill level consists
of the following: (1) Must be a SMSgt, (2) Certified in all 5/7 level core tasks and (3) be an in resident
graduate of the Advanced Aviation Resource Manager Course and (4) Maintain the SEI 066 qualification.
6.5. Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM 1C000) Training Requirements. The individual will be awarded
AFSC 1C000 when selected for Chief Master Sergeant.
6.6. Retraining Personnel. Trainees must attend the 3-skill level resident training course, complete the
5- and 7-skill level CDCs and perform aviation resource management duties for 18 months.



                                                    11
NOTE. AFPC may waive individuals IAW AFI 36-2201, (with coordination of the AFCFM). The
maximum upgrade training period time for re-trainees who do not attend 3-skill level school is 9 months.
Process such waiver requests IAW AFI 36-2201 and AFI 36-2101. Prepare case file IAW paragraph 6.8.
6.7. CDC Failures. CDC failures will be addressed IAW AFI 36-2201.
6.8. Upgrade Training (UGT) Waiver Case File. A case file for waiver of the 3, 5, and 7-skill level
maximum training periods must include a copy of: the individual’s STS, AF Form 623a upgrade training
grade inputs, commander’s waiver request letter, letters from the trainer and supervisor (unless same as
trainer), and the Group 1C0X2 Functional Manager. Forward training waiver requests through the
1C0X2 MAJCOM FM to HQ USAF/A3O-AIF.
6.9. AFRC. All new enlisted Air Reserve Technician (ART) hires, or re-trainees who have satisfied the
minimum Office of Personnel Management (OPM) standards, will immediately be militarily classified at
the entry level AFSC. The ART supervisor will conduct an initial evaluation within 120 days from the
date of hire, using the current CFETP to access apprentice skill level qualifications. This includes
completion of all mandatory requirements included in AFECD.
6.9.1 After completion of the 3-skill level requirements, the award must be sanctioned by the 1C0X2
AFRC Functional Manager. In these cases, submit prescribed waiver request, IAW AFMAN 36-2245 and
Education Training Course Announcement, through formal channels. Disapproval by the 1C0X2 AFRC
Functional Manager will require the ART to remain at the entry level AFSC until satisfactory completion
of technical school. Supervisors must validate ART military qualifications for members who have been
hired to positions during the last 12 months and who have been granted the 3-skill level. After
completion of the supervisor’s evaluation, if it has been determined the member requires initial skills
technical training, the supervisor must withdraw the 3-skill level, place the member at the entry level
AFSC and request technical school attendance. This policy guidance is also applicable to members who
have already been placed in an ART position via priority placement procedures, and who subsequently are
in need of additional skill level training.
6.10. Civilian Hires. New 1C0X2 civilian hires accessing the ARMS database will attend either HARM
or SARM training (based on their respective civilian position description) at one of the 1C0X2 MAJCOM
schoolhouses (Dyess or Ft Dix) within the first year of hire. Supervisors will ensure newly hired
civilians meet the respective 3-level core training items prior to sending to the newly hired civilian to
training. Also, newly hired civilians must meet 5-skill level upgrade requirements IAW the position
description. Civilians hired under the Status of Forces Agreements (SOFA), Ministry of Defense (MOD)
may attend the MAJCOM Formal Training courses. Civilians newly appointed to supervisory 1C0X2
positions will also meet the requirements in paragraph 6.3 and meet all other 7-skill level requirements.

NOTE: Civilian hires with prior 1C0X2 experience may be waived from attending one of the 1C0X2
MAJCOM schoolhouses at the discretion of the 1C0X2 MAJCOM FM.

6.11. Air Force ARM Computer Based Training (CBT)/Web Based Training (WBT). ARM
CBT/WBTs, when available, may be used to support proficiency training.
7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Academic Programs. See the CCAF web site for
program details regarding the Associate in Applied Science degree at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf.
7.1. Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon completion of Basic Military Training. CCAF provides the
opportunity for all enlisted members to obtain an Associate in Applied Science degree. The student must

                                                   12
complete requirements prior to separation from the Air Force, retirement, or commissioning as an officer,
to be awarded the degree.

7.2 The Aviation Management program applies to AFSC 1C0X2 career field.
7.2.1. Degree Requirements: The individual must hold the 5-skill level to graduate in all programs.
           Subject                                                            Semester hours
      Technical Education                                                         24
      Leadership, Management, and Military Studies                                 6
      Physical Education                                                           4
      General Education                                                           15
      Program Electives                                                           15
      Total                                                                       64

7.2.1.1. Technical Education: A minimum of 12 semester hours of Technical Core subjects/courses
must be applied. The remaining semester hours will be applied to fulfill Technical Education and
Program Elective requirements.
7.2.1.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies: Professional Military Education or civilian
management courses. See CCAF General Catalog for application of civilian management courses.
7.2.1.3. Physical Education: Satisfied upon completion of basic military training.
7.2.1.4. General Education: Courses must meet the Criteria for Application of Courses to the General
Education Requirement and be in agreement with the definitions of Applicable General Education
subjects/courses as outlined in the CCAF General Catalog.
7.2.1.5. Program Elective: Satisfied with applicable Technical Education, Leadership, Management, and
Military Studies; or General Education subjects/courses.
7.3. See current CCAF catalog for specific details regarding the Associate of Applied Science of Aviation
Management.
NOTE: Individuals desiring to become an AETC or a MAJCOM formal schoolhouse instructor should
be actively pursuing an associate’s degree. A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain CCAF’s
accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.




                                                   13
8. Aviation Resource Management Career Path. The chart below depicts this specialty's career path.
This career path outlines when training is required for each level and function within this specialty.




                                                  14
SECTION C - SKILL LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

9. Purpose. Skill levels in this career field are defined in terms of tasks and knowledge requirements.
This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each skill level in broad, general terms
and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award, and retention of each skill level. The
specific task and knowledge training requirements are identified in Part II of this CFETP.
10. Specialty Qualification Requirements.
10.1. Apprentice (3) Level/Journeyman (5) Level Training Requirements.
10.1.1. Specialty Qualifications.
10.1.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge of the following is mandatory: rated, Career Enlisted Aviator (CEA),
nonrated, operational support, and parachutist duty classifications, and aviation management policies; ;
aircrew and parachutist continuation and qualification training and upgrade; flying hour and flying
incentive pay;
continuation and training and upgradeand flying
10.1.1.2. Education. Completion of high school with courses in oral communications and computer
operations is desirable. 10.1.1.3. Training. Completion of the basic Aviation Resource Management
Apprentice Course is required for award of the semi-skilled AFSC (See Paragraph 6.6, NOTE).
Completion of the 5-skill level CDC and all applicable STS core and work center tasks are required prior
to award of the 5-skill level (See Paragraph 6.7).
10.1.1.4. Experience. Experience (minimum upgrade time IAW AFI 36-2201) is mandatory for award
of a skill level in this AFSC.
10.1.1.5. Other. Refer to the most current AFECD.
10.1.2. Training Systems/Resources. Aviation Resource Management Apprentice Course and 5-skill
level CDC. Part II, Section A of this CFETP identifies all the knowledge and tasks with respective
standards. A list of training courses to support this career field is in Part II, Section D.
10.1.3. Implementation. Entry into training is through Air Force Training Management System
(AFTMS). Job qualification begins immediately upon assignment to their first duty position. Thereafter,
it is initiated anytime individuals are assigned duties they are not qualified to perform.
10.2. Craftsman (7) Level Training Requirements.
10.2.1. Specialty Qualifications.
10.2.1.1. Knowledge. Additional knowledge of the following is mandatory: rated, CEA, nonrated,
operational support, and parachutists training, policy, and procedures; preparing, processing, and
maintaining AOs and flight/jump records; aviation/parachutist management policy; aircrew upgrade and
parachute qualification; aircraft assignment; flying hour utilization; flight/parachutist incentive pay;
ARMS functionality; ARMS database structure, and ARMS interface with other automated systems;
report writer; deployment operations as they pertain to ARM functions; techniques for collecting and
presenting statistical data and analytical summaries; and validating aircrew position identifiers in the
personnel data system as it pertains to processing active or inactive AOs.
10.2.1.2. Education. It is highly recommended that 7-level candidates obtain a CCAF Associate’s
degree.

                                                     15
10.2.1.3. Experience. Experience (minimum upgrade time IAW AFI 36-2201) is mandatory for award
of a skill level in this AFSC.
10.2.1.4. Training. Completion of the 7-skill level CDC, Interactive Multimedia Instruction (IMI), and
all applicable STS core and work center identified tasks. (See Paragraph 6.7.)
10.2.1.5. Other. Refer to the most current AFECD.
10.2.2. Training Sources/Resources. A list of all training courses to support this career field is in Part
II, Section B.
10.2.3. Implementation. The 7-skill level is awarded upon completion of STS core and work center
identified tasks, 7-skill level CDC/IMI and upon recommendation of supervisor and commander.
10.3. Superintendent (9) Level Training Requirements
10.3.1. Specialty Qualifications
10.3.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge of the following is mandatory: organization and personnel
management principles; governing ARM policy, instructions, and deployment operations as they pertain
to ARM functions; ARMS functionality; ARMS database structure, MilPDS database as it pertains to
aircrew/parachutist flying authorization data, and ARMS interface with other automated data systems.
Possess an understanding of how ARM functions interact with maintenance, finance, personnel, logistics,
aerospace medicine, and other base agencies.
10.3.1.2. Education. Completion of management and human resource courses through off duty
education is desired.
10.3.1.3. Training. Completion of Advanced Aviation Resource Manager Course.
10.3.1.4. Other. Refer to the most current AFECD.
10.3.2. Training Sources/Resources. Advanced Aviation Resource Manager Course.
10.3.3. Implementation.




                                                    16
SECTION D - RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS
11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints that preclude optimal/desired training
from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower. Explanations of
each resource constraint and its impact on training are included. Also included in this section are: actions
required, office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource constraints will be, as a
minimum, reviewed and updated annually.
12. Training Constraints. Funding for civilian attendance of the apprentice course in-residence will be
IAW ETCA and equivalent guidance for those subject to SOFA or MOD agreements.
SECTION E - TRANSITIONAL TRAINING GUIDE
There are currently no transitional training requirements. This area is reserved.


PART II
SECTION A - SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD 1C0X2
1. Implementation. Implementation of this Specialty Training Standard (STS) for technical training
provided by AETC is scheduled with the class 2014003 entering training on 28 October 2013 and
graduating 04 December 2013for 3-skill level training.
2. Purpose. As prescribed, this STS:

2.1. Lists in the column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common tasks,
knowledge, and Technical References (TR) necessary for Airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-
skill level. Number task statements sequentially i.e., 1.1, 1.2, and 2.1 Column 2 (Core Tasks) identifies,
by asterisk (*), specialty-wide training requirements.

2.2. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and knowledge
training requirements. For OJT documentation and transcription procedures, see AFI 36-2201.

2.3. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the proficiency to
be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the task and knowledge and the
career knowledge provided by the correspondence course.

2.4. Qualitative Requirements. The proficiency code key is used to indicate the level of training and
knowledge provided by resident training and CDCs.

2.5. Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion System
(WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the AETC Airman Advancement Division,
by senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their career fields. The tests sample knowledge of
STS subject matter areas judged by test development team members as most appropriate for promotion to
higher grades. Questions are based upon study references listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual
responsibilities are in Chapter 1 of AFI 36-2605, AF Military Personnel Testing System. WAPS is not
applicable to the ANG.




                                                     17
 3. Recommendations. Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates. Reference
the STS and address correspondence requiring changes to 334 TRS/TRR, 610 Hangar Rd, Keesler AFB,
MS 39534-2335. A Customer Service Information Line (CSIL) has been installed for the supervisors’
convenience. For a quick response to concerns, call our CSIL at DSN 597-4566, or fax us at DSN 597-
3790, or e-mail us at 81trg-tget@keesler.af.mil. Reference this STS and identify the specific area of
concern (paragraph, training standard element, etc.).
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE



OFFICIAL                                                  DAVID M. VARDAMAN, Col, USAF
                                                          Chief, Force Integrated Division




                                                  18
                                               PROFICIENCY CODE KEY
                 SCALE
   LEVELS
                 VALUE
     TASK                  CAN DO SIMPLE PARTS OF THE TASK. NEEDS TO BE TOLD OR SHOWN HOW TO DO MOST OF THE
                    1      TASK. (EXTREMELY LIMITED)
 PERFORMANCE

                           CAN DO MOST PARTS OF THE TASK. NEEDS HELP ONLY ON THE HARDEST PARTS. (PARTIALLY
       “            2      PROFICIENT)


                           CAN DO ALL PARTS OF THE TASK. NEEDS ONLY A SPOT CHECK OF COMPLETED WORK. (PROFICIENT)
       “            3

                           CAN DO THE COMPLETE TASK QUICKLY AND ACCURATELY. CAN TELL OR SHOW OTHERS HOW TO
       “            4
                           DO THE TASK. (HIGHLY PROFICIENT)
    *TASK                  CAN NAME PARTS, TOOLS, AND SIMPLE FACTS ABOUT THE TASK (NOMENCLATURE)
                    a
  KNOWLEDGE

       “            b      CAN DETERMINE STEP-BY-STEP PROCEDURES FOR DOING THE TASK. (PROCEDURES)
                           CAN IDENTIFY WHY AND WHEN THE TASK MUST BE DONE AND WHY EACH STEP IS NEEDED.
       “            c
                           (OPERATING PRINCIPLES)
       “            d      CAN PREDICT, ISOLATE, AND RESOLVE PROBLEMS CONCERNING THE TASK. (ADVANCED THEORY)
   **SUBJECT               CAN IDENTIFY BASIC FACTS AND TERMS ABOUT THE SUBJECT. (FACTS)
                    A
  KNOWLEDGE

                           CAN IDENTIFY RELATIONSHIP OF BASIC FACTS AND STATE GENERAL PRINCIPLES ABOUT THE
       “            B
                           SUBJECT. (PRINCIPLES)
                           CAN ANALYZE FACTS AND PRINCIPLES AND DRAW CONCLUSIONS ABOUT THE SUBJECT.
       “            C
                           (ANALYSIS)
       “            D      CAN EVALUATE CONDITIONS AND MAKE PROPER DECISIONS ABOUT THE SUBJECT. (EVALUATION)
                                                      EXPLANATIONS



* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge
for a specific task (e.g., b and 1b).


** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to a
specific task, or for a subject common in several tasks.


- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.
OJT will be provided at the unit/base level.




                                                                19
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)

                                                  A       B       C         A         B        C        D               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level

                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials
                                                                                                                Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC



 1. Career Ladder Progression
 TR: Air Force Enlisted
 Classification Directory (AFECD),
 CFETP 1C0X2, Education and
 Training Course Announcement,
 AFI 11-421.
* 1.1 Career Field 1C0X2                          -       -       -                                               A          -      -        A       -           -
 (HARM, SARM, Current Ops, Air
 Crew Training)
* 1.2 Duties of AFSC                              -       -       -                                               A          -      -        A       -           -
 1C032/1C052/1C072/1C092/1C000


* 1.3 Responsibilities of Unique                  -       -       -                                               A          -      -        B       -           -
 Leadership Positions (e.g. CFM,
 MFM, FM)
 2. Security
 TR: AFI 10-701, AFI 31-101, AFI
 33-108 and DD Form 2056.
* 2.1 Vulnerabilities of OPSEC                    -       -       -                                               A          -      -         -      -           -
 Specific to AFSC 1C0X2


 3. Enlisted Specialty Training
  (EST)
 TR: AF Form 623, AF IMT 623A,
 AF IMT 797, AF IMT 803, AF IMT
 1098, AF IMT 2096, AFI 11-421,
 AFI 36-2101, AFI 36-2201, AFI 36-
 2406, AFI 36-2502 and CFETP
 1C0X2, AFECD.
 3.1 Training Documentation                       -       -       *                                                -         -      -        B       -           -


 3.2 Task Evaluations                             -       -       *                                                -         -      -        B       -           -
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)

                                                  A       B       C         A         B        C        D               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level

                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials
                                                                                                                Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC



 3.3 Training Waiver Process                      -       -       *                                                -         -      -        A       -          B


* 3.4 OJT Program                                 -       -       -                                               A          -      -         -      -           -


 4. Publications, Forms and
 Continuity Procedures
 TR: AFI 11-101, AFI 11-102, AFI
 11-2MDS-SpecificV1, AFI 11-
 2MDS-SpecificV2, AFI 11-2MDS-
 SpecificV3, AFI 11-202V1, AFI 11-
 202V2, AFI 11-202V3, AFI 11-221,
 AFI 11-401, AFI 11-402, AFI 11-
 421, AFI 11-403, AFI 11-404, AFI
 11-405, AFI 11-409, AFI 11-410,
 AFI 11-412, AFI 33-360, AFI 36-
 2013, AFI 36-2254V2, AFI 38-201,
 AFI 44-170, AFI 48-123, AFI 65-
 503, AFI 91-204, AFECD, AFMAN
 65-116V1, AFMAN 65-116V2,
 AFMAN 65-116V3, AFOCD, AFPD
 11-4, AFRIMS and DoD FMR
 7000.14 Vol 7A.
* 4.1 Use Forms/Publications                      -       *       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -           -


 4.2 Develop Work Center                          -       -       -                                                -         -      -        b       -           -
 Procedures


 5. ARMS Configuration/System
  Management
 TR: AFI 11-421, ARMs Help File
 and Oracle Discoverer.
 5.1 System Change Request                        -       -       -                                                -         -      -        B       -           -
 (SCR)




                                                           Pg 21
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)

                                                  A       B       C         A         B        C        D               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level

                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials
                                                                                                                Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC



* 5.2 ARM Group Functions (e.g.                   -       -       -                                               A          -      -        A       -           -
 ARM Working and Advisory Council
 (AWAC), ARMS Working Group
 (AWG), ARM Steering Group
 (ASG), and ARM Advisory Group
 (AAG)).
* 5.3 Navigate ARMS                               -       *       -                                              2b          -      -         -      -           -


 5.4 Database Query
 TR: Database Query Help Menu.
 5.4.1 Design                                     -       *       -                                                -         -      -        b       -          b


* 5.4.2 Request                                   -       *       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -          b


* 5.4.3 Validate                                  -       *       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -          b


 5.5 Manage ARMS                                  -       -       -                                                -         -      -         -      -          b
 Security/Administration


 6. Aviation/Parachutist
  Management
 TR: AFECD, AFI 11-401, AFI 11-
 402, AFI 11-403, AFI 11-404, AFI
 11-405, AFI 11-409, AFI 11-410,
 AFI 11-412, AFI 11-421, AFI 44-
 170, AFI 48-123, AFI 65-503, AFI
 91-204, and AFOCD.
 6.1 Career Aviators
* 6.1.1 Rated                                     -       *       -                                               A          -      -        B                  B


* 6.1.2 Career Enlisted Aviators                  -       *       -                                               A          -      -        B                  B
 (CEA)




                                                           Pg 22
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)

                                                  A       B       C         A         B        C        D               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level

                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials
                                                                                                                Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC



* 6.2 Non Career Aviators                         -       *       -                                               A          -      -        B                  B


* 6.3 Operational Support                         -       *       -                                               A          -      -        B                  B


 6.4 Foreign Military Aviators                    -       -       -                                                -         -      -         -                 A


 6.5 Parachutists
* 6.5.1 Jump Inherent                             -       *       -                                               A          -      -        B                  B


* 6.5.2 Non Jump Inherent                         -       *       -                                               A          -      -        B                  B


 6.6 Aircrew
 Qualification/Certification
 TR: AF IMT 4324, AFI 11-202V1,
 AFI 11-202V2, AFI 11-2MDS
 SpecificV1, AFI 11-2MDS
 SpecificV2, AFI 11-401, and AFI 11-
 421.
* 6.6.1 Aircraft Assignment and                   -       *       -                                               A          -      -        B       -           -
 Aircrew/Parachutist Certification
 Codes
* 6.6.2 Update Aircraft                           -       *       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -           -
 Assignment/Aircrew
 Qualification/Certification
 6.7 Medical Status
 TR: AF IMT 1042, AFI 11-401, AFI
 11-402, AFI 11-421, AFI 44-170
 and AFI 48-123.
* 6.7.1 Flight Medical Examinations               -       *       -                                               A          -      -        B       -          B


* 6.7.2 Process Physical                          -       *       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -          b
 Qualification Status



                                                           Pg 23
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)

                                                  A       B       C         A         B        C        D               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level

                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials
                                                                                                                Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC



* 6.7.3 Process Physical Availability             -       *       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -          b
 Status


 6.8 Physiological Training
 TR: AF Form 1274, AFI 11-403,
 AFI 11-404 and AFI 11-421.
* 6.8.1 Physiological Formal Training -                   *       -                                               A          -      -        B       -           -
 Courses


* 6.8.2 Process Physiological                     -       *       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -           -
 Training


* 6.9 Process Aircraft Mishap                     -       *       -                                               b          -      -        b       -           -
 Procedures (HARM/SARM)
 7. Flying Hour Management
 TR: AFI 11-101, AFI 11-202V3, AFI
 11-401, AFI 11-421, AFI 21-101,
 AFI 21-103, AFI 65-503, AFTO
 Form 781 and AFPD 11-1.
 7.1 Flight Time Documentation
* 7.1.1 Forms (e.g. AF IMT 3520,                  -       *       -                                               A          -      -        B       -           -
 AFTO Form 781)


* 7.1.2 Review                                    -       *       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -           -


* 7.1.3 Input                                     -       *       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -           -


* 7.1.4 Audit                                     -       *       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -           -


* 7.1.5 Flying Time Extracts                      -       *       -                                               A          -      -        B       -           -




                                                           Pg 24
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)

                                                  A       B       C         A         B        C        D               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level

                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials
                                                                                                                Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC



 7.2 Flying Hour Products

* 7.2.1 Reports (e.g. Flying Time                 -       -       -                                               A          -      -        B       -           -
 Maximums, IFR, FHR, IFTS)


* 7.2.2 Request                                   -       -       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -           -


* 7.2.3 Audit                                     -       -      *                                               2b          -      -        b       -           -


 7.2.4 Reconcile Career/Aircraft                  -       -       *                                                -         -      -        A       -          B
 Totals


 7.3 Aircraft Flying Hour Program
 TR: AFI 11-101, AFI 11-401, AFI
 11-421, AFI 21-101, AFI 21-103
 and AFTO Form 781.
* 7.3.1 Reconcile (Aircraft Utilization -                 *       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -           -
 Report)


 7.3.2 Allocation/Reporting Process               -       -       -                                                -         -      -        A       -          B
 (Unit/Wing/MAJCOM)


 8. Parachutists Management
 TR: AF Form 4323, AF IMT 196,
 AF IMT 922, AF IMT 1098, AF IMT
 4322, AFI 11-401, AFI 11-402, AFI
 11-410, AFI 11-421 and AFI 16-
 1202.
* 8.1 Jump Status                                 -       *       -                                               A          -      -        B       -          B
 (Temporary/Active)


 8.2 Jump Documentation




                                                           Pg 25
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)

                                                  A       B       C         A         B        C        D               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level

                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials
                                                                                                                Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC



* 8.2.1 Forms (e.g. AF Form 4323,                 -       -       -                                               A          -      -        B       -           -
 AF IMT 922)


 8.2.2 Review                                     -       -       -                                                -         -      -        b      -            -


 8.2.3 Input                                      -       -       -                                                -         -      -        b       -           -


 8.2.4 Audit                                      -       -       -                                                -         -      -        b       -           -


* 8.2.5 Jump Extracts                             -       -       -                                               A          -      -        A       -           -


 8.3 Jump Products
* 8.3.1 Reports (e.g. Jump Activity               -       -       -                                               A          -      -        B       -           -
 Update Summary)


 8.3.2 Request                                    -       -       -                                                -         -      -        b       -           -


 8.3.3 Audit                                      -       -       -                                                -         -      -        b       -           -


 8.3.4 Reconcile Career Totals                    -       -       -                                                -         -      -         -      -           -


* 8.4 Parachutists Qualifications                 -       -       -                                               A          -      -        B       -          B
 (Static-Line/Military Freefall
 (MFF)/Jumpmaster)
 8.5 Process Parachutist                          -       -       -                                                -         -      -        b       -          b
 Documentation


 9. ARM System Interfaces                         -       -       -                                                -         -      -        A       -           -
 TR: AFI 11-421.




                                                           Pg 26
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)

                                                  A       B       C         A         B        C        D               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level

                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials
                                                                                                                Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC



 10. Resource Management
 TR: AFI 11-401, AFI 11-402, AFI
 11-403, AFI 11-404, AFI 11-410,
 AFI 11-412, AFI 11-421, AFI 11-
 404, AFI 48-123, AFI 65-503,
 AFMAN 65-116V1, AFMAN 65-
 116V2, AFMAN 65-116V3 and DOD
 FMR 7000.14R Vol. 7A.
 10.1 Products
* 10.1.1 Reports (e.g. AMSL,                      -       *       -                                               A          -      -        B       -          B
 ASPSL, CHARM)


* 10.1.2 Request                                  -       -       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -           -


* 10.1.3 Audit                                    -       *       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -           -


 10.1.4 Determine Management                      -       -       *                                                -         -      -        b       -          c
 Actions


 10.2 Operational Support Program                 -       -       -                                                -         -      -        A       -          B


 10.3 Aeronautical Rating Boards                  -       -       *                                                -         -      -        A       -          B
 (ARB) (Inter-service Transfer)


 10.4 Flight Evaluation Boards                    -       -       *                                                -         -      -        A       -          B
 (FEB)


* 10.5 Requalification/                           -       -       *                                               A          -      -        B       -          B
 Disqualification/Suspension/
 Revalidation
 10.6 Aviation Service Date                       -       -       *                                                -         -      -        A       -          B
 Adjustment



                                                           Pg 27
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)

                                                  A       B       C         A         B        C        D               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level

                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials
                                                                                                                Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC



* 10.7 Operational Flying Duty                    -       -       -                                               A          -      -        B      -           B
 Accumulator (OFDA)


* 10.8 Calculate OFDA                             -       *       -                                              1a          -      -        b       -          b


 10.9 OFDA Waivers                                -       -       -                                                -         -      -        A       -          B


 10.10 ARMS Management Codes
 TR: AFI 11-401, AFI 11-402, AFI
 11-412 and AFI 11-421.
* 10.10.1 Aircrew Position Indicator              -       *       -                                               A          -      -        A       -          B
 (API)


* 10.10.2 Flying Activity Code (FAC) -                    *       -                                               A          -      -        A       -          B


* 10.10.3 Aviation Service Code                   -       *       -                                               A          -      -        A       -          B
 (ASC)


 10.11 Manpower Documents                         -       -       *                                                -         -      -        A       -          B
    Relating to ARM
 TR: AF IMT 480, AFI 11-401, AFI
 11-402, AFI 11-410, AFI 11-412,
 AFI 38-201, Unit Personnel
 Manpower Roster (UPMR), and
 Unit Manpower Document (UMD).
* 10.12 Ratings and Badges                        -       -       -                                               A          -      -        B       -          B
 TR: AF IMT 196, AF IMT 1887, AFI
 11-401, AFI 11-402, AFI 11-410
 and AFI 11-421.




                                                           Pg 28
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)

                                                  A       B       C         A         B        C        D               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level

                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials
                                                                                                                Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC



* 10.13 Publish Aeronautical Orders               -       *       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -          b
 (AO)
 TR: AF IMT 1887, AFI 11-401, AFI
 11-402, AFI 11-410 and AFI 11-
 421.
 10.14 Incentive Pay
 TR: AF Form 1520A, AF IMT 1520,
 AF IMT 1521, AF IMT 1887, AFI 11-
 401, AFI 11-402, AFI 11-410, AFI
 11-421, AFMAN 65-116V1,
 AFMAN 65-116V2, AFMAN 65-
 116V3, DD Form 114, DODFMR
 7000.14R, Vol.7A, Computer
 Generated AO and Case
 Management System Guide.
* 10.14.1 Determine Eligibility for               -       -       *                                               a          -      -        b       -          b
 Aviation Incentive Pay (e.g. ACIP,
 CEFIP, HDIP)
* 10.14.2 Determine Eligibility for               -       -       *                                               a          -      -        b       -          b
 Parachutists’ Pay (Static and
 HALO)
* 10.14.3 Determine Eligibility for               -       -       -                                               a          -      -        b       -          b
 ARC Incentive Pay


 10.14.4 Audit Entitlement                        -       -       *                                                -         -      -        b       -          b
 Verification Report (or ARC
 equivalent)
* 10.14.5 Process Military Pay                    -       -       *                                               a          -      -        b       -          b
 Actions


 10.15 Flight Record Folder (FRF),
 Jump Record Folder (JRF)
 TR: AFI 11-401 and AFI 11-421.
* 10.15.1 Construct                               -       -        -                                              b          -      -        b       -           -




                                                           Pg 29
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)

                                                  A       B       C         A         B        C        D               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level

                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials
                                                                                                                Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC



 10.15.2 Audit                                    -       *       -                                                -         -      -        b       -          b


* 10.15.3 Conduct Individual Flight               -       *       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -          b
 Records Review


 10.15.4 Conduct Individual Jump                  -       *       -                                                -         -      -        b       -          b
 Records Review


* 10.16 Complete HARM In/ Out-                    -       -       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -           -
 Processing


 11. Squadron Aviation Resource
  Management (SARM)
 TR: AF Form 8, AF Form 8a, AF
 Form 942, AF IMT 1522, AF IMT
 4324, AF IMT 4327/4327A, AFI 11-
 202V1, AFI 11-202V2, AFI 11-
 202V3, AFI 11-2MDS SpecificV1,
 AFI 11-2MDS SpecificV3, AFI 11-
 301V1, AFI 11-401, AFI 11-402, AFI
 11-403, AFI 11-410, AFI 11-421,
 AFI 13-201 MAJCOM SUPS, AFI
 16-1301, AFI 48-123 and AFI 65-
 503.
 11.1 Aircrew Flight Evaluations                  -       -       -                                                -         -      -        B       -           -


* 11.2 Flight Evaluation Folder                   -       -       -                                               A          -      -        B       -           -
 (FEF)


* 11.3 Prepare Flight Authorization               -       *       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -           -


 11.4 Squadron Operations Center
 Duties




                                                           Pg 30
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)

                                                  A       B       C         A         B        C        D               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level

                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials
                                                                                                                Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC



* 11.4.1 Perform Go/No Go                         -       *       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -           -
 Procedures


* 11.4.2 Maintain Daily Flight                    -       -       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -           -
 Schedule


* 11.4.3 Coordinate Mission                       -       -       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -           -
 Requirements With Other Agencies


* 11.4.4 Perform Radio Procedures                 -       -       -                                              2b          -      -         -      -           -


* 11.4.5 Perform Emergency                        -       -       -                                              2b          -      -         -      -           -
 Checklist Procedures


* 11.4.6 Perform Post Mission                     -       *       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -           -
 Review Procedures


 12. Aircrew/Parachutist Training
 TR: AF Form 4323, AF IMT 922,
 AF IMT 1098, AF IMT 1522, AFI 11-
 202V1, AFI 11-2 MDS SpecificV1,
 AFI 11-301, AFI 11-401, AFI 11-
 410, AFI 11-421, AFI 13-219, AFI
 16-1202, AFI 16-1301 and the
 Education Training Course
 Announcement.
* 12.1 Phases of Training                         -       -       *                                               A          -      -        B       -           -


 12.2 Training Accomplishments
* 12.2.1 Source Documents (e.g.                   -       -       -                                               A          -      -        B       -           -
 MAR, TAR, AF IMT 1522)




                                                           Pg 31
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)

                                                  A       B       C         A         B        C        D               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level

                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials
                                                                                                                Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC



* 12.2.2 Review                                   -       *       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -           -


* 12.2.3 Input                                    -       *       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -           -


* 12.2.4 Audit                                    -       *       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -           -


 12.3 Training Program

* 12.3.1 Program Codes                            -       -       *                                               A          -      -        B       -           -


* 12.3.2 Task Identifiers                         -       -       *                                               A          -      -        B       -          B


* 12.3.3 Training Profiles                        -       -       *                                               A          -      -        B       -          B


* 12.4 Assign Training Profiles                   -       *       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -          b


 12.5 Conduct Profile Management                  -       -       *                                                -         -      -        b       -          b
 Audit (e.g. TPML, TPAL, LOX, AF
 IMT 4324)
* 12.6 Proration                                  -       *       -                                               A          -      -        B       -          B


 12.7 Tailor Individual Training                  -       -       *                                                -         -      -        b       -          b
 Events


 12.8 Training Reports
* 12.8.1 Products (e.g. ITS, ITR,                 -       -       -                                               A          -      -        A       -           -
 UTSS)


* 12.8.2 Request                                  -       -       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -           -




                                                           Pg 32
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)

                                                  A       B       C         A         B        C        D               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level

                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials
                                                                                                                Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC



* 12.8.3 Audit                                    -       *       -                                              2b          -      -        b       -           -


* 12.9 Complete SARM In/Out-                      -       -       -                                              1a          -      -        b       -           -
 Processing


 13. Scheduling Process
 TR: AFI 11-201, AFI 11-209, AFI
 11-221, AFI 11-401, AFI 11-421,
 AFI 13-201, AFI 21-101, AFJI 11-
 204 and Airman's Information
 Manual.
 13.1 Aircrew Schedule                            -       -       -                                                -         -      -        B       -           -
 Coordination


 13.2 Airspace Schedule                           -       -       -                                                -         -      -        B       -           -
 Coordination


 13.3 Orientation Flight Program                  -       -       -                                                -         -      -        A       -           -


* 14. ARM Contingency Operations                  -       -       -                                               A          -      -        A       -           -
 TR: AFI 11-421




                                                           Pg 33
Section B – Course Objective List
A detailed listing of AETC technical training course objectives may be obtained by written
request to the 334 TRS/TRR at Keesler AFB MS.
Section C –Not Used
Section D - Training Course Index
Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the specialty. Refer
to the Education and Training Course Announcement for information on all courses listed in this
index.
Air Force In-Residence Courses.
Course Number/Course Title                                  Location
E3ABR1C032 00VB/Aviation Resource
Management Apprentice                                       Keesler AFB, MS
E3ACR1C092 00VC/Advanced Aviation Resource
Manager Course                                              Keesler AFB, MS
Extension Course Institute (ECI) Courses
Course Number/Course Title
CDC 1C052/Aviation Resource Management Journeyman
CDC 1C072/Aviation Resource Management Craftsman
Section E - MAJCOM Formal Schools
Course Number/Course Title                                  Location
3D0/AMC HARM Course                                         Fort Dix, NJ
30V/AMC SARM Course                                         Fort Dix, NJ
OUA/AMC ARM Report Writer                                   Fort Dix, NJ
3J5ACC1C0X2 000/ACC HARM Course                             Dyess AFB, TX
3J5ACC1C0X2 001/ACC SARM Course                             Dyess AFB, TX
3J5ACC1C0X2 002/ACC ARM Report Writer Course                Dyess AFB, TX




                                             Pg 34
