DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                CFETP 2W2X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                                    Part I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                    1 June 2013




                                AFSC 2W2X1

                        NUCLEAR WEAPONS




                              CAREER FIELD
            EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

  ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
                 www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

  RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.



                                            1
                 CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                             NUCLEAR WEAPONS
                                AFSC 2W2X1

                                     Table of Contents

Part I                                                      Page

Preface                                                     3

Section A: CFETP General Information                        7

Section B: Career Progression and Information               8

Section C: Skill Level Training Requirements                13

Section D: Resource Constraints                             16

Part II

Section A: Course Objective List                            16

Section B: Support Material                                 17

Section C: Training Course Index                            17

Section D: MAJCOM Unique Requirements                       18

Section E: Specialty Training Standard                      19




OPR: 363TRS/TRR
Certified by: HQ USAF/A4LW
Supersedes: CFETP 2W2X1, Part I and II, 1 January 2010
Pages: 52

                                                2
                  CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                              NUCLEAR WEAPONS
                                 AFSC 2W2X1

Part I

Preface

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for the Nuclear Weapons specialty. The CFETP
will provide personnel a clear career path to success and will instill rigor in all aspects of career
field training. NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty
position qualification training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts. Both parts of the plan will be used by supervisors to plan,
manage, and control training within the career field. This plan will be used as the sole source of
initial training documentation. Supervisors will maintain both Part I and II in the master training
plan. Only Part II is required for individual training records; however, all personnel should be
familiar with Part I.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how to use the plan; Section B identifies career field progression information, duties
and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path; Section C associates each level
with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, training, and other); Section D indicates
resource constraints. Some examples are funds, manpower, equipment, and facilities; Section E
identifies transition training guide requirements for SSgt through MSgt.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A is the Course Objective List and Section B
identifies available support materials. An example is Qualification Training Packages (QTPs),
which may be developed to support proficiency training. Section C identifies the training course
index supervisors can use to determine resources available to support training. Included here are
both mandatory and optional courses, correspondence course requirements and exportable
courses; Section D identifies MAJCOM unique training requirements supervisors can use to
determine additional training required for the associated qualification needs. Section E contains
the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and includes duties, tasks, technical references to support
training, proficiency codes used to indicate training/information provided by Air Education and
Training Command (AETC), core tasks and the certification for On-the-Job Training (OJT)
where supervisors determine if airmen satisfied training requirements.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals within the Nuclear Weapons
specialty receive effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan
will enable training today’s workforce for tomorrow’s jobs. At unit level, supervisors and
trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall
goals of this plan.



                                                  3
Abbreviations/Terms Explained

Advanced Training (AT). Formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in one
or more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance
their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career airmen at the advanced level of
the AFS.

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). An individual designated by HQ USAF/A4LW
who determines training requirements and directs training programs for the 2W2X1 career field.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard/Command Job Qualification Standard

(AFJQS/CJQS). A comprehensive list which describes a particular job type or duty position.
They are used by supervisors’ to document task qualifications. The items on AFJQS/CJQS are
common to all persons serving in the described duty position, Air Force Specialty (AFS). The
grouping of related tasks, knowledge, and duties of a job that constitutes the work requirement of
a position. It contains positions that require the same basic ability to perform.

Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC). Assigned to a grouping of positions that require common
qualifications in relation to skill level.

Career Development Course (CDC). A self-study exportable course that helps personnel
complete the specialty knowledge portion of the dual-channel OJT program.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). CFETP is a comprehensive,
multipurpose document encapsulating the entire spectrum of education and training for a career
field. It outlines a logical growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make
career field training identifiable, to eliminate duplication, and to ensure this training is budget
defensible.

Continuation Training. Additional training exceeding requirements with emphasis on present
or future duty assignments.

Core Task. Tasks the AFCFM identify as minimum qualification for everyone within an AFSC.
Core tasks may be adjusted for duty position requirements or deployment training, as determined
by the AFCFM.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication, derived from initial/advanced skills course
training standard, identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective standards
provided to achieve a 3/5/7-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to assist in
conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program.

Enlisted Development Team (EDT). Developed under direction of the Force Management and
Development Council and officially chartered 1 July 2011 by AF/A4L. EDT may evaluate and
vector Airmen to developmental and leadership positions, through collective recommendation
based on experiences, training or position type that the member should consider for their next


                                                 4
assignment. Vectors do not necessarily constitute an assignment. Additional information may
be posted on the AF/A4LW Force Development SharePoint site.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video,
or other necessary means to supplement training.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly, but flexible process for
planning, developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures personnel
are taught in a cost efficient way; the knowledge, skills, and attitudes essential for successful job
performance.

Initial Skills Training. A formal school course that results in an AFSC 3-skill level award for
enlisted or mandatory training for upgrade to NCO's.

Job Qualification Standard (JQS). A comprehensive list that describes a particular job type or
duty position. The JQS is used by supervisors to document individual qualifications. These
qualifications are tailored to meet individual training requirements for their particular duty
position.

MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM). The designated 2W2 assigned to the Headquarters or
Center staff that is responsible for identifying command qualification requirements and
coordinating training solutions for each skill level.

Master Task Listing (MTL). A document maintained within the work center that identifies all
tasks performed in the work center. This includes core, critical, position qualifications, and
wartime tasks. This document may be printed, computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.

Master Training Plan (MTP). A comprehensive training plan used within the work center. It
can include the MTL, QTP, AFIQs, CFETP, task breakdowns, publications, and any other
document that supports training.

Nuclear Weapons Certification Program. An AFI 21-204, Nuclear Weapons Maintenance
Procedures, requirement over and above the qualification/certification procedures contained in
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, and this document. This program takes precedence
over all other publications in the area of nuclear weapons training, certification and evaluation.

Occupational Survey Report (OSR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational
survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Training conducted to certify personnel in both upgrade (skill
level awarding) and job qualification (duty position) training.

Optimal Training. The ideal training environment, which results in the highest level of
proficiency, on specified performance requirements, within the minimum time possible.




                                                  5
Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance and knowledge training
designed to qualify an individual in a specific duty position. This portion of the dual channel
OJT program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide
the knowledge/performance skills required to do the job.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional package designed for use at the unit
to qualify, or aid qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of equipment. It may
be printed, computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and
equipment that preclude desired training from being delivered.

Skills Training. Is a formal course, which results in the award of a skill level.

Specialty Training. A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (OJT) to
qualify and upgrade airmen in the award of a skill level.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes skills and
knowledge that airmen in a particular AFSC need on the job. It further serves as a contract
between AETC and the user to show the overall training requirements for an AFSC that the
formal schools teach.

Task Certification. This program is implemented by appointing task certifiers who are capable
and technically qualified to evaluate and document an individual’s qualifications for performing
specific tasks.

Task Certifier. An individual authorized to evaluate training and certify qualifications.
Records task certification according to the instructions provided in the respective JQS when a
trainee performs a task to required standards. Each certifier must attend a formal task certifier
course and remain qualified in the tasks evaluated. Uses established training evaluation tools
and methods to determine trainee's ability and training program effectiveness. Certifiers will not
evaluate tasks they have trained airmen to perform.

Training Business Area (TBA). TBA journal entry is an AF Portal, net-centric, GCSS-AF
level web-based application that provides global, real-time visibility into the technical
qualification and training status of maintenance personnel Air Force wide. Unit managers will
use TBA as prescribed in implementation guidelines.

Training Planning Team (TPT). Comprised of the same personnel as a U&TW, however TPTs
are more intimately involved in training development and the range of issues are greater than is
normal in the U&TW forum.

Training Requirements Analysis. A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFS to be
included in the training decision process.




                                                 6
Upgrade Training (UGT). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training
(OJT) to qualify and upgrade airmen in each skill level of the 2W2X1 specialty.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum of the AFCFM, MFMs, unit subject
matter experts, and AETC training personnel that determine career field ladder training
requirements.

Section A - CFETP General Information

1. Purpose. The Nuclear Weapons CFETP provides information necessary for the 2W2X1
AFCFM, MFM's, commanders, training managers, supervisors and trainers to plan, develop,
manage, and conduct an effective career field training program. The plan outlines the training
that individuals in AFSC 2W2X1 must receive in order to develop and progress throughout their
career. The plan identifies initial skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency
training. Initial skills training is the AFS specific training an individual receives upon entry into
the Air Force or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. For nuclear
weapons technicians, this training is conducted by AETC at the 363rd Training Squadron,
Sheppard AFB. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task/knowledge qualification
requirements, and correspondence course requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, 9-skill levels.
Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an airman
in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade
training process. It is designed to provide the performance skill and knowledge required to do
the job. Advanced training is formal specialty training used for selected airman. Proficiency
training is additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training courses, or
OJT provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required
for upgrade. The CFETP has several purposes, some are:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate the training program.
In addition, it helps supervisors identify training requirements so individuals receive training at
the appropriate point in their career.

1.2. Identifies and documents task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in
the specialty and identifies education and training throughout each phase of an individual’s
career.

1.3. Lists training courses available, identifies sources of training, and the training delivery
method.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the career field-
training process.

2. Uses. The plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure comprehensive
and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop or revise formal resident, non-resident, field, and
exportable training based on requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of


                                                  7
the CFETP. They will coordinate with the AFCFM and MFMs to develop acquisition strategies
for obtaining resources needed to provide training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial,
upgrade, and proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, and contract training or
exportable courses can satisfy identified requirements. MAJCOM-developed training to support
this AFSC must be identified for inclusion into the plan.

2.3 Each individual must complete the mandatory training requirements (core tasks) specified in
this plan for skill level upgrade. The Part II lists courses to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority for the CFETP.
MAJCOM and AETC representatives will identify and coordinate on the career field training
requirements. The AETC training manager for this specialty (363TRS/TRR, Sheppard AFB)
will initiate an annual review of this document. Using the list of courses in Part II, they will
eliminate duplicate training.

Section B - Career Progression and Information:

1. Specialty Description.

1.1. Specialty Summary. Inspects, maintains, stores, handles, modifies, repairs, and accounts
for nuclear weapons, weapon components, associated equipment, and specialized/general test
and handling equipment.

1.2. Duties and Responsibilities. Stores, handles, transports, inspects, assembles, disassembles,
maintains, and modifies nuclear warheads, bombs, missiles, reentry vehicles and systems,
launchers, pylons, ejector racks, penetration aids, and associated test and handling equipment.
Installs and removes nuclear warheads, bombs, missiles, and reentry vehicles. Maintains and
operates Use Control (UC) equipment. Troubleshoots and maintains test sets. Inspects,
maintains, and operates vehicles and munitions handling equipment used to transport nuclear
weapons and components. Uploads, downloads, and cross loads nuclear weapons to launch gear.
Resolves maintenance problems in accordance with technical guidance, reviews publications for
accuracy and submits applicable improvement reports, and performs periodic inspections on
weapons or equipment and submits deficiency reports. Observes proper procedures for the
handling, use, and disposal of hazardous waste materials. Complies with nuclear, missile,
explosive, and general safety requirements; weapons systems safety rules; and technical order
procedures. Complies with two-person concept and no-lone zone requirements. Maintains and
troubleshoots Weapon Storage and Security System (WS3). Performs or assists in emergency
disablement or evacuation of nuclear weapons and components. Inspects, audits and maintains
high security locks, keys, and code modules. Assists in performing operational checks on
facility alarm systems. Stores, issues, inspects, maintains, and uses small arms and ammunition
for security force support and contingency taskings. Performs escort duties. Performs weapons
inventory, accountability, reporting, and verification procedures using the Defense Integration
and Management of Nuclear Data Services (DIAMONDS). Plans, organizes, directs, inspects,
and evaluates nuclear weapon activities, and performs nuclear weapon management functions.


                                                 8
Plans, schedules, inspects, and evaluates nuclear maintenance actions, including maintenance on
related components and specialized test and handling equipment. Establishes production control,
performance standards, and determines maintenance priorities. Coordinates maintenance actions
with MAJCOM, wing, base, or squadron maintenance and munitions organizations. Ensures
conformance to prescribed quality and safety standards. Conducts periodic reviews to identify
and then resolve maintenance and supply problems.

2. Skills and Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the
apprentice to the superintendent skill level plays an important role in the Air Force’s ability to
accomplish its mission. Everyone must do their part to plan, manage, and conduct an effective
training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will ensure each individual
receives viable training at appropriate points in their career. Additionally, continued academic
education through CCAF or other degree programs is highly encouraged, but not mandatory for
career progression.

2.1. Apprentice (3) Level. Upon completion of initial skills training, a trainee works with a
trainer and their supervisor to enhance their task knowledge and develop their maintenance
skills. They will use the 2W251 CDC to expand their task knowledge, perform Task
Qualification Training tasks as directed by supervisors identified in the STS, and certify to
perform nuclear weapons maintenance in accordance with the Nuclear Weapons Certification
Program in AFI 21-204, Nuclear Weapons Maintenance Procedures.

2.2. Journeyman (5) Level. Once upgraded to the 5-skill level, a journeyman may enter in
continuation training working in different functional areas to broaden his or her experience base.
Personnel perform, supervise or direct nuclear weapons maintenance tasks.

2.3. Craftsman (7) Level. Craftsmen gain experience in various supervisory positions, such as
team chief, bay chief, shift supervisor, assistant NCOIC, NCOIC, section or element chief.
Additionally, they fill select staff positions. Personnel are encouraged to take courses to develop
their management of resources and personnel skills, and must attend the 7-skill level in-resident
course and complete the 7-level CDC before upgrade to the 7-skill level. In addition, when
promoted to TSgt, individuals will attend the Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA).

2.4. Superintendent (9) Level. A 9-skill level Nuclear Weapons manager fills supervisory and
management positions such as NCOIC, section or element chief, flight chief, and maintenance
superintendent/manager. Additionally, they fill select staff positions. All 9-skill levels should
seek additional training in budget, manpower, resources, and personnel management through
continuing education programs. All 9-skill levels attend the Senior Noncommissioned Officer
Academy (SNCOA) upon promotion to SMSgt, if not afforded the opportunity as a MSgt.

3. Training Decisions. The CFETP identifies the entire spectrum of training requirements for
the Nuclear Weapons Specialty. The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to
meet these training requirements. The strategy must ensure nuclear weapon technicians have the
fundamental technical knowledge to perform weapons related duties and possess specific
systems knowledge prior to upgrade. Training decisions were made by the AFCFM and MFMs
at the 2W2X1 U&TW held at Sheppard AFB, 3 – 6 December 2012. A detailed list of training


                                                 9
decisions and U&TW minutes may be obtained by accessing the HQ AF/A4LW SharePoint.

4. Community College of the Air Force. Enrollment occurs upon completion of basic military
training. CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate in Applied Science Degree. In
addition to its associate’s degree program, CCAF offers the following:

4.1. CCAF Instructor Certification (CIC). The CIC program is a certification program for
qualified instructors who teach CCAF collegiate-level credit awarding courses at a CCAF-
affiliated school. The CIC is a professional credential that recognizes the instructor's extensive
faculty development training, education, and qualification required to teach a CCAF course and
formally acknowledges the instructor's practical teaching experience.

4.2. Professional Manager Certification. CCAF offers the PMC Program for qualified Air
Force NCO’s. The PMC is a professional credential awarded by CCAF that formally recognizes
an individual’s advanced level of education and experience in leadership and management, as
well as professional accomplishments. The program provides a structured professional
development track that supplements Enlisted Professional Military Education (EPME) and
Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP).

4.3. Degree Requirements. All airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program.
Prior to completing an associate’s degree in Munitions Systems Technology, the 5-level must be
awarded and the following requirements must be met:

Subjects/Courses                                                             Semester Hours
Technical Education                                                                      24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies                                              6
Physical Education                                                                        4
General Education                                                                        15
Program Electives                                                                        15
       Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and Military
       Studies; or General Education
Total                                                                                       64

4.3.1. Technical Education. (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of
Technical Core subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied from
Technical Core/Technical Elective courses. Requests to substitute subjects or courses must be
approved in advance by the Technical Branch. Refer to the CCAF catalog for Application of
Courses to the Technical Education area.

Technical Core

Subjects/Courses                                                             Semester Hours
CCAF Internship                                                                          18
Munitions Operations/Inventory Management                                                24
Munitions Systems                                                                        24
Nuclear Weapons Systems                                                                  24


                                                10
Technical Electives

Subjects/Courses                                                           Semester Hours
Advanced Munitions Systems                                                             12
Advanced Nuclear Weapons Systems                                                       12
AF Enlisted Professional Military Education                                            12
Basic Accounting                                                                        3
Computer Science                                                                        6
Corrosion Control                                                                       3
Electricity/Electronics                                                                 6
Engineering Graphics                                                                    3
Fluid Power                                                                             3
General Chemistry/Algebra-Based Physics                                                 8
Hazardous Materials                                                                     3
Heavy Equipment Operation/Maintenance                                                   3
Industrial Safety                                                                       3
Inventory Management                                                                    3
Maintenance Management                                                                  3
Materiel Management                                                                     3
Basic Mechanics (Reactor Technology)                                                    3
Statistics                                                                              3

4.3.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies. (6 Semester Hours): Professional
military education and/or civilian management courses. The preferred method of completing
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies is through attendance at an Airman Leadership
School, MAJCOM NCO Academy, and/or Air Force Senior NCO Academy. However, college
courses that emphasize fundamentals of managing human or material resources may be used to
satisfy this requirement.

4.3.3. Physical Education. (4 Semester Hours): Basic Military Training satisfies this
requirement.

4.3.4. General Education. (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement with
the definitions of applicable General Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF
General Catalog. The following is a specific breakout of requirements:

Subjects/Courses                                                            Semester Hours
Oral Communication (Speech)                                                                3
Written Communication (English Composition)                                                3
Mathematics                                                                                3
       Intermediate algebra or a college-level mathematics course is required. If an acceptable
       mathematics course is applied as a Technical or Program elective, a natural science
       course meeting GER application criteria may be applied as a general education


                                               11
       requirement.
Social Science                                                                         3
       Anthropology, Archaeology, Economics, Geography, Government, History, Political
       Science, Psychology, Sociology.
Humanities                                                                             3
       Fine Arts (History, Criticism, and Appreciation), Foreign Language, Literature,
       Philosophy, Religion.

4.3.5. Program Electives. (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical
Education; Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or general education
subjects/courses, including natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Six
semester hours of CCAF degree applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this
program may be applied.

4.4. Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is encouraged for all. Individuals
desiring to become an AETC Instructor should be actively pursuing an associate’s degree. A
degreed faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern Association of
Colleges and Schools.

5. Career Field Path.

5.1. Enlisted Career Path.

Table 5.1 Enlisted Career Path (Depicts a complete picture of education and training for all skill
levels
                                                       GRADE REQUIREMENTS
Education and Training Requirements                    Rank       Average       Earliest      High
                                                                  Sew-On        Sew-On Year of
                                                                                              Tenure
Basic Military Training School
Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)            Amn        6 months
Upgrade to Journeyman (5-Skill Level)
-Minimum 12 months OJT
-Minimum 9 months OJT for retrainees                   A1C        16 months
-Complete 2W251 A&B CDCs
-Minimum 12 months certification on any certifiable    SrA        3 years       28            8 years
task, excluding transport and final assembly test, as                           months
outlined in AFI 21-204
Airman Leadership School (ALS)                         Trainer
Must be a SrA with 48 months TIS or SSgt select        1. Recommended by their supervisor
Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt sew-on  2. Qualified to perform the task being
                                                       trained
                                                       3. Must attend formal Air Force Trainer
                                                       Course




                                                12
Upgrade to Craftsman (7-Skill Level)
-Minimum rank of SSgt
-Minimum 12 months OJT
-Minimum 6 months OJT for retrainees
-Complete 2W271 CDC (Pre-requisite to attending            SSgt        4.5 years    3 years      15
2W271 Craftsman Course)                                                                          years
-Attend 7-Level Craftsman Course
-Minimum 12 months certification as a team chief on
any certifiable task, excluding transport and final
assembly test, as outlined in AFI 21-204
* AF Nuclear Weapons (2W2) Enlisted                        TSgt selects though CMSgts may be
Development Team (EDT)                                     evaluated by the EDT
-EDT was developed under direction of the Force            -Airmen may be asked to provide an
Management and Development Council                         Enlisted Development Plan (survey)
-Officially chartered 1 July 2011 by AF/A4L                detailing some personal information, duty
-EDT evaluate and vector Airmen to developmental           history and future plans
and leadership positions                                   -Additional information may be posted on
-Vectors are the collective recommendation based on        the AF/A4LW Force Development
experiences, training or position type that the member     SharePoint site
should consider for their next assignment
-Vectors do not necessarily constitute an assignment
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)                     TSgt        12.5 years   5 years      20
-Must be a TSgt or TSgt Selectee                                                                 years
-Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt sew-on     MSgt        17 years     8 years      24
                                                                                                 years
USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)                            SNCO Development
-Must be a SMSgt Selectee or a selected MSgt               -CCAF degree should be completed
-Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SMSgt sew-      -Non-resident PME should be completed
on
Upgrade to Superintendent (9-Skill Level)                  SMSgt       20 years     11 years     26
-Minimum rank of SMSgt                                                                           years
Upgrade to Chief Enlisted Manager (AFSC 2W200)             CMSgt       22 years     14 years     30
                                                                                                 years
* This is not an Education and Training Requirement

Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements

1. Purpose. Skill level training requirements are defined in terms of tasks and knowledge
requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each skill level in
broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award, and retention
of each skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements are identified in the
STS at Part II, Sections E of this CFETP.



2. Specialty Qualification Requirements:


                                                      13
2.1. Knowledge. Knowledge of electrical and mechanical principles; safety and security
requirements for nuclear weapons; interpreting block diagrams and technical orders; and proper
handling, use, and disposal of hazardous waste and materials is mandatory.

2.2. Other. For entry, award, and retention the following are mandatory:

2.2.1. Normal color vision and depth perception as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examination
and Standards.

2.2.2. Individuals must meet the requirements necessary to fill critical personnel reliability
program (PRP) positions as defined in DoD 5210.42-R and AFMAN 10-3902 Nuclear Weapons
Personnel Reliability Program (PRP).

2.2.3. No record of emotional instability as specialty requires continued access to nuclear
weapons and components.

2.2.4. Specialty requires access to Top Secret materials. For award and retention of AFSCs
2W231/51/71/91/00, completion of a current Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI)
according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management.

NOTE: Award of the 3-skill level without a completed Secret Security Clearance is authorized
provided an Interim Secret security clearance has been granted according to AFI 31-501,
Personnel Security Program Management.

2.2.5. Never been convicted of domestic violence IAW the Lautenberg amendment to the Gun
Control Act of 1968 and AFI 31-117, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel.

2.3. Specialty Specific Qualifications:

2.3.1. 3 Skill Level Training:

2.3.1.1. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school or general
educational development equivalency is mandatory. Courses in mechanics, physics, or basic
electricity are desirable.

2.3.1.2. Training. For award of AFSC 2W231, successful completion of the Nuclear Weapons
Apprentice Course, J3ABR2W231 0A0C is mandatory.

2.3.1.3. Training Sources. The nuclear weapons technical school at Sheppard AFB provides
the basic knowledge and skills necessary for the award of the 3-skill level. The training provided
at the technical school can be reviewed by examining the 3-skill level column in the STS.

2.3.1.4. Implementation. Students are awarded a 3-skill level upon successful completion of
the Nuclear Weapons Apprentice Course, J3ABR2W231 0A0C. The AFCFM has specified the
minimum passing score for all progress checks and exams will be 80%.


                                                14
2.3.2. 5 Skill Level Training:

2.3.2.1 Specialty Qualification. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2W231.
Familiarized with functions such as inspecting, maintaining, handling, and repairing nuclear
weapons, weapon components, and related test and handling equipment is required.

2.3.2.2. Experience. A minimum of 12 months experience as a trainee (UGT) is required for
upgrade to the 5-skill level (minimum 9 months for retrainees). Additionally, individuals must
be certified for a minimum of 12 months as a weapons maintenance team member on a weapons
maintenance, mate/demate, or handling task, as outlined in AFI 21-204, Nuclear Weapons
Maintenance Procedures; this experience may be accumulative providing the minimum time
requirement is met. Transport and final assembly test certifications will not be utilized to meet
this requirement. For units not possessing War Reserve weapons, units will maintain upgrade
training requirements utilizing training assets. Units must ensure individuals in upgrade training
gain experience performing tasks such as inspecting, maintaining, storing, handling and repairing
nuclear weapons, weapon components, and related test and handling equipment. The TBA
journal entry will be used to document this experience.

2.3.2.3. Training Sources. The 2W251 CDC is developed and maintained by AETC and
administered by HQ AU/A4L. Supervisors are responsible for enrolling trainees and
administering the course IAW AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program. The CDCs provide
much of the knowledge necessary for upgrade training. Qualification training is provided by the
supervisor and trainer to the trainee by using the JQS to determine qualification/knowledge tasks
to be trained.

2.3.2.4. Implementation. Entry into upgrade training to the 5-skill level is initiated after an
individual has been awarded the 3-skill level. The individual is then enrolled in CDC 2W251A
or 2W251B. The 5-skill level is awarded to individuals who complete 12 months of OJT (9
months for retrainees), completes all 5-level core tasks, completes 2W251A and 2W251B CDCs
(both CDCs must be completed prior to upgrade), and has a minimum of 12 months as a
weapons maintenance team member on a weapons maintenance, mate/demate, or handling task,
as outlined in AFI 21-204, Nuclear Weapons Maintenance Procedures. Qualification training is
initiated anytime an individual is assigned duties he/she is not qualified to perform. Document
team member experience in TBA journal entry.

2.3.3. 7 Skill Level Training:

2.3.3.1 Specialty Qualification. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2W251. Experience
in performing or supervising functions such as inspecting, maintaining, handling, and repairing
nuclear weapons, weapon components, and related test and handling equipment is required.
Pursuing an Associate’s Degree through CCAF in Munitions Systems Technology is
recommended.

2.3.3.2. Experience. A minimum of 12 months experience as a trainee (UGT) is required for
upgrade to the 7-skill level (minimum 6 months for retrainees). Additionally, individuals must


                                                15
be certified for a minimum of 12 months as a weapons maintenance team chief on a weapons
maintenance, mate/demate, or handling task, as outlined in AFI 21-204, Nuclear Weapons
Maintenance Procedures; this experience may be accumulative providing the minimum time
requirement is met. Transport and final assembly test certifications will not be utilized to meet
this requirement. For units not possessing WR weapons, units will maintain upgrade training
requirements utilizing training assets. Units must ensure individuals in upgrade training gain
experience supervising tasks such as inspecting, maintaining, storing, handling, and repairing
nuclear weapons, weapon components, and related test and handling equipment. The TBA
journal entry will be used to document this experience.

2.3.3.3. Training Sources and Resources. Trainees must attend the 7-level course at Sheppard
AFB. Attendance of the 7-Level course, J3ACR2W271 0C0C, Nuclear Weapons Craftsman
Course, is mandatory, as is qualification on all core tasks. The AFCFM has specified the
minimum passing score for all progress checks and exams for course J3ACR2W271 0C0C will
be 80%. Course attendees are scheduled by the Air Force Personnel Center as they approach
their 12th month in OJT tasks (SrA selected for promotion to SSgt may attend the 7-level
course). The 2W271 CDC is requested through the unit-training manager; completion is
mandatory prior to attendance at the in-residence 7-Level course and is mandatory for upgrade
to the 7-skill level.

2.3.3.4. Implementation. The 7-skill level is awarded to individuals in the grade of SSgt who
complete 12 months of UGT (6 months for retrainees), complete all core tasks, successfully
complete the 7-level Nuclear Weapons Craftsman Course (J3ACR2W271 0C0C), 2W271 CDC,
and have a minimum of12 months as a weapons maintenance team chief on a weapons
maintenance, mate/demate, or handling task, as outlined in AFI 21-204, Nuclear Weapons
Maintenance Procedures. Document team chief experience in TBA journal entry.

2.3.4. Skill Level Training:

2.3.4.1. Specialty Qualification. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2W271. Experience
leading, supervising, training and evaluating assigned personnel. Directs functions such as
testing, inspecting, and maintaining nuclear weapons. Continued academic education through a
higher degree program is strongly encouraged.

2.3.4.2. Experience. Experience in the management of nuclear weapons and associated
resources to include directing functions such as testing, inspecting, and maintaining nuclear
weapons are required. Individuals should seek supervisory and management positions within the
munitions organization, as well as select staff positions.

2.3.4.3. Training Sources. All 9-skill level training for Nuclear Weapons is gained through
OJT. No formal career field training is required for the award of the 9-skill level.

2.3.4.4. Implementation. A Senior Master Sergeant (SMSgt) is awarded the 9-skill level upon
SMSgt sew-on.

Section D - Resource Constraints. Currently, there are no training resource constraints


                                                16
Part II

Section A – Core Task Table

The core task table identifies mandatory training for upgrade to 5-level and 7-level.
CORE TASK TABLE                   5 Level                           7 Level
All Functional Areas              2.3.2., 2.4.3.2., 2.4.3.3.,       1.2.2., 2.3.3., 5.2.3.2., 6.2.,
                                  3.3.1.2., 3.4.2., 4.6.1., 4.6.2., 9.1.2., 9.1.16., 9.2.1., 9.2.2.,
                                  4.6.3., 4.7.1., 4.7.2.1.,         9.3.1., 9.3.2., 9.4.6., 9.4.7.,
                                  4.7.2.2., 4.8.1., 4.12., 4.13.1., 9.4.8., 9.4.9., 9.4.13., 9.4.14.,
                                  4.13.5., 8.2.1., 9.1.3., 9.1.4.,  10.4.1., 10.4.13.
                                  9.1.5., 9.1.6., 9.1.7., 13.1.3.,
                                  13.2.3.6., 13.2.4.5., 13.2.4.8.,
                                  13.7.4.4., 13.7.4.5., 13.7.4.6.,
                                  13.7.6.1., 13.7.6.2., 13.7.6.3.,
                                  13.9.2.2., 13.9.2.5., 13.9.2.6.,
                                  13.9.2.7., 13.9.2.9.1.

Section B - Support Material

2. There are currently no support material requirements. This area is reserved.

Section C - Training Course Index

3. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the Nuclear Weapons
Specialty and shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field training
programs.

3.1. Air Force In-Resident Courses are listed at the Education & Training Course Announcements
site. Announcements are subject to change. A sample is listed below. For the current list, visit:
https://etca.randolph.af.mil/default1.asp .

      COURSE NUMBER               TITLE                                      LOCATION            USER
      J3ABR2W231 0A0C             Nuclear Weapons Apprentice Course          Sheppard AFB        All
      J3ACR2W271 0C0C             Nuclear Weapons Craftsman Course           Sheppard AFB        All
      J3OZR21M1N 0N1B             Nuclear Accountability Course              Sheppard AFB        All
      JBOZD21A1A 00DA             Nuclear Weapons Orientation Course         Kirtland AFB        All
      L3AZR2W071 0C2A             Weapons Safety Management Course           Lackland AFB        All

3.2. Air Force Career Development Academy (AFCDA) Courses are listed at
http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/ .


                                                   17
     COURSE NUMBER           TITLE                                   LOCATION           USER
     2W251 A & B             Nuclear Weapons Journeyman Course       HQ AU/A4L          All
                             (CDC)
     2W271                   Nuclear Weapons Craftsman Course        HQ AU/A4L          All
                             (CDC)

3.3. Exportable Courses: Announcements are subject to change. A sample is listed below.
For the current list, visit: http://www.defenseimagery.mil/index.html

     COURSE NUMBER            TITLE                                     LOCATION        USER
     N/A                      Acquisition 101                           DAU             All
     N/A                      NWRM Fundamentals Course                  ADLS            All
     N/A                      Nuclear Weapons                           ADLS            All
                              Inventory/Management Audit Refresher
                              Course
     N/A                      Nuclear Weapons-Related Materiel          ADLS            All
                              Accountable Officer Training (May
                              2010)

3.4. Courses Under Development/Revision

     COURSE NUMBER           TITLE                                        LOCATION          USER
     J3ABR2W231 0A0B         Nuclear Weapons Apprentice Course            Sheppard          All
                                                                          AFB
     J3ACR2W271 0C0B         Nuclear Weapons Craftsman Course             Sheppard          All
                                                                          AFB
     2W251 A & B             Nuclear Weapons Journeyman Course            HQ AU/A4L         All
                             (CDC)
     2W271                   Nuclear Weapons Craftsman Course (CDC) HQ AU/A4L               All

3.5. Department of Defense Courses: Announcements are subject to change. A sample is
listed below. For the current list, visit: http://www.dtra.mil/specialfocus/wmdedu.aspx .

Section D - MAJCOM Unique Requirements

4. This section identifies MAJCOM specific education and training requirements.

     COURSE NUMBER           TITLE                         LOCATION               USER
     N/A                     HQ USAFE Advanced             Ramstein AB, GE        2W1/2,
                             WS3 Component                                        Comm
                             Replacement/Troubleshooti                            Personnel
                             ng Course
     N/A                     Weapons Maintenance           Ramstein AB, GE        2W2
                             Supervisors Course                                   Maintenance
                                                                                  Supervisors,


                                             18
                                                                                     NCOIC, Bay
                                                                                     Chief
     N/A                       Weapons Maintenance            Installations within   2W2 QA,
                               Road Show Course               USAFE                  Maintenance
                                                                                     Trainers, Bay
                                                                                     Chief
     N/A                       RSTS Course                    Hill AFB, UT           Various 2W2
                               (AFGSC/ICBM Units)                                    Maintenance
                                                                                     Positions

Section E - Specialty Training Standard (STS)

5. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC. The
qualitative requirements proficiency code key will be used to determine the level of training and
knowledge provided by resident training and career development courses as indicated in column
4 of the STS.

5.1. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, this STS:

5.1.1 Lists in column 1 the most common tasks, knowledge, and the technical references (TR)
necessary for airman to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level AFSC in the Nuclear
Weapons ladder of the Munitions and Weapons Maintenance Career Field. These are based on
an analysis of the duties in this CFETP.

5.1.2. Identifies in column 2 (by a 5 or a 7), specialty-wide minimum core task training
requirements for award of 2W251 and 2W271 AFSCs.

5.1.3. Provides in column 3, OJT certification columns to record completion of task and
knowledge training requirements. Task certification must show a certification/completed date.

5.1.4. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements in column 4. Columns 4A
and 4C (1) show the level to which task/knowledge training has been accomplished by the AETC
Training Center for 2W231 and 2W271 courses respectively, as described at
https://etca.randolph.af.mil. Column 4B (2) indicates the career knowledge provided in the 5-
skill level CDC. Column 4C (2) indicates the career knowledge provided in the 7-skill level
CDC. Use of / in the Proficiency Level column denotes level of training that will be attained
under existing constraints. (Example: 2b/X [unfunded] or 2b/a [partially funded])

5.2. Job Qualification Standard. The STS becomes a JQS for OJT training when placed in
TBA, OJT Training Record. For OJT, the tasks/knowledge in column 1 are trained and qualified
to the “go/no go” level. “Go” means the individual can perform the task without assistance and
meets local requirements for accuracy, timeliness, and correct use of procedures and possesses
the required knowledge as determined by the trainer. When used as a JQS, the following
requirements apply:

5.2.1. Documentation. Document training IAW AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program.


                                                19
5.3. Upgrade Certification Procedures: Prior to upgrade, all personnel, regardless of duty
position, must satisfactorily complete upgrade training requirements. Trainees must also meet
AFSC experience requirements outlined in the Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory
(AFECD), this CFETP, task certified on all upgrade core tasks and have a minimum of 12
months performing nuclear weapon system maintenance tasks, as a certified team member or
team chief as outlined above. Additionally, all 7-skill level trainees must complete the formal
2W271 course, the 7-level CDC (Completion of 7-level CDC’s is mandatory prior to attendance
of the in-residence 7-Level course) and work centers added local training requirements.
Completion of non-mandatory tasks pertinent to the unit mission will continue to be
accomplished, as resources become available for training.

5.3.1. When a CDC is not available, the supervisor will identify STS training references the
trainee requires for career knowledge and ensures, as a minimum, trainees cover the mandatory
items in the AFECD.

5.3.2. For two-time CDC course exam failures, supervisors will recommend to unit training
managers the trainee be either eliminated from the AFSC or the AF, or recommend a waiver for
wing commander evaluation. NOTE: Career Knowledge must be documented prior to
submitting a CDC waiver by identifying all STS items corresponding to the areas covered by the
CDC; have the trainee complete a study of STS references and undergo an evaluation by the
certifier, and receives certification on the STS.

5.4. Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS). The STS is used as a guide for
development of promotion tests used in WAPS. Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) questions
are developed at the USAF Airman Advancement Division by 2W2 Senior NCOs with extensive
practical experience in the Nuclear Weapons Career Field judged by test development team
members to be the most appropriate knowledge areas for promotion to higher grades. Questions
are based on the study references listed in the WAPS catalog.

5.5. Recommendations. Report unsatisfactory performance of individual apprentice course
graduates to AETC during telephone field interviews, through the customer service information
line (CSIL) at DSN 736-5236, or directly to the schoolhouse at DSN 736-3279/4723. All
questions or change recommendations regarding the CFETP will be routed through the
respective MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM). MFMs report inadequacies and suggested
corrections for this STS through the OPR 363 TRS/TRR, 520 Missile Road, (Stop 244),
Sheppard AFB, TX, 76311-2261, DSN 736-3279.

BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL                                   JUDITH A. FEDDER
                                           Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support


                                              20
21
This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                       Initials (Written)             Last four of SSAN

                                               Printed Name Of Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                    N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I


N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

                                                 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                             Proficiency Code Key
                                    Scale     Definition: The individual
                                    Value
                                       1      Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (Extremely
                                              Limited)
          Task                         2      Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
      Performance                      3      Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
         Levels                        4      Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task.
                                              (Highly Proficient)
                                       a      Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)
         *Task                         b      Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)
       Knowledge                       c      Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                                              (Operating Principles)
          Levels                       d      Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
                                       A      Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
       **Subject                       B      Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (Principles)
       Knowledge                       C      Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
        Levels                         D      Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.

Use of / in the Proficiency Level column denotes level of training that will be attained under existing constraints. (Example: 2b/X [unfunded] or
2b/a [partially funded].)

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

X This mark is used alone in the course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.

 NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code in Column 4A are trained during war time.




                                                                         22
                                                    2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                   Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                   Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                    A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                      3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                      Level          Level            Level
                                                    5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                   Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
1.            NUCLEAR WEAPONS CAREER
              FIELD
              TR: Air Force Enlisted
              Classification Directory, AFI 36-
              2101
1.1.          Definitions of the USAF Airman
              Munitions and Weapons Career
              Field
1.1.1.        Munitions Systems                                                                                          A         -       -        -       -
1.1.2.        Aircraft Armament Systems                                                                                  A         -       -        -       -
1.1.3.        Nuclear Weapons                                                                                            A         -       -        -       -
1.2.          Progression in Career Ladder
              2W2X1
1.2.1.        Progression in Career Field Ladder                                                                         A         -       -        -       B
              2W2X1
1.2.2.        Perform Team Chief                     7                                                                   -         -       A        B       B
              Duties/Responsibilities
1.2.3.        Perform Bay Chief                                                                                          -         -       A        B       B
              Duties/Responsibilities
1.3.          Duties of AFSCs 2W231/51/71                                                                                A         -       A        -       B
1.4.          Nuclear Weapons Community
              TR: DoD 3150, 5210; AFI 21-2XX
              Series
1.4.1.        Department of Defense                                                                                      A         -       A        -       B
1.4.2.        Department of Energy                                                                                       A         -       A        -       B
1.4.3.        Defense Threat Reduction Agency                                                                            A         -       A        -       B
1.4.4.        Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center                                                                           A         -       A        -       B
1.4.5.        HHQ/Wing/Group/Squadron                                                                                    A         -       B        -       B
              Functions
2.            SECURITY
2.1.          Communications Security
              (COMSEC)
              TR: DoD 5200.1R; AFI 10-701,
              31-401, 33-201, V1-V3
2.1.1.        COMSEC Vulnerabilities                                                                                     -         -       A        -       -
2.1.2.        COMSEC Accounts/Responsibilities                                                                           -         -       A        -       B
2.1.3.        User Responsibilities                                                                                      -         -       A        -       -
2.1.4.        Operation Security Vulnerabilities                                                                         -         -       A        -       -
2.2.          Weapons Storage and Security
              System (WS3) COMSEC
              TR: AFI 33-201 Series;
              USAFEI 33-201
2.2.1.        Vulnerabilities                                                                                            -         -       A        -       B
2.2.2.        COMSEC Responsible Officer                                                                                 -         -       A        -       B
              Responsibilities
2.2.3.        User Responsibilities                                                                                      -         -       A        A       B
2.2.4.        Deviations                                                                                                 -         -       A        -       B
2.3.          Information Security
              TR: CG-W-5; and Related Guides
2.3.1.        Receipt/Destruction of Classified                                                                          A         -       b        -       -
              Data
2.3.2.        Safeguard/Maintain Accountability      5                                                                   A         -       b        -       -
2.3.3.        Use Security Classification Guides     7                                                                   -         -       A       2b       B




                                                           23
                                                    2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                   Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                   Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                    A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                      3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                      Level          Level            Level
                                                    5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                   Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
2.4.          Physical Security
              TR: AFI 31-101, 31-207, 31-209;
              AFI 31-207; AFMAN 31-108; DoD
              5100.76M; TOs 11A-1-10, 11W-1-
              10, 11W3-6-2-1, 11W3-6-1-171,
              11W3-5-5-41, 11W3-3-5-1, and
              Local Procedures
2.4.1.        Small Arms and Ammunition
2.4.1.1.      Armory and Repository
              Procedures
2.4.1.1.1.    Inventory                                                                                                  -         -       -        -       -
2.4.1.1.2.    Issue                                                                                                      -         -       -        -       -
2.4.1.1.3.    Maintain                                                                                                   -         -       -        -       -
2.4.1.1.4     Inspect                                                                                                    -         -       -        -       -
2.4.2.        Use of Force                                                                                               A         -       -        -       -
2.4.3.        Nuclear Weapons Security
2.4.3.1.      Fundamentals                                                                                              A          -       B        -       -
2.4.3.2.      Controlling No Lone Zone/Exclusion     5                                                                  2b         -       B        -       -
              Area
2.4.3.2.1.    Perform Escort Duties                                                                                      -         -       -        -       -
2.4.3.3.      Perform Sole Vouching Authority        5                                                                  2b         -       B        -       -
              Duties
2.4.3.4.      Perform Munitions Close-in Sentry                                                                         2b         -       B        -       -
              Duties
2.4.4.        Air Force Physical Security
2.4.4.1.      AF Physical Security Program                                                                               A         -       -        B       -
2.4.4.2.      Weapon Storage Area                                                                                        A         -       -        -       -
2.4.4.3.      WS3 Requirements                                                                                           A         -       -        -       -
2.5.          Weapons Movements
              TR: DoD S-5210.41-M; AFI 21-
              2XX Series; AFMAN 31-108
2.5.1.        Inside WSA Movement                                                                                        A         -       B        -       -
              Requirements
2.5.2.        Outside WSA Movement                                                                                       A         -       B        -       -
              Requirements
2.5.3.        Safe Haven Requirements                                                                                    A         -       A        -       B
3.            AIR FORCE NUCLEAR SURETY
              PROGRAM
              TR: DoDS-5210.41-M; AFI 21-101,
              21-2XX Series, 31-101, 91-101;
              AFMAN 31-108; TOs 11N-50-1005,
              44H2-3-1-101
3.1.          Purpose                                                                                                    A         -       B        -       -
3.2.          Safeguard of Resources/Facilities
3.2.1.         Key Control Procedures                                                                                   2b         -       a        -       b
3.2.2.        Control/Audit/Keys/Locks                                                                                  A          -       B        -       A
3.2.3.        Use, Maintain, Update, Review and                                                                         A          -       B        -       A
              Distribute Change Letters
3.2.4.        Manage WS3 Module Program                                                                                  -         -       -        -       -
3.2.5.        Open/Close Nuclear Weapon Storage                                                                         2b         -       b        -       -
              Facilities
3.2.6.        Maintain High Security Padlocks                                                                            A         -       b        -       -
3.2.7.        Install/Remove Massive Modular                                                                             -         -       a        -       -
              Blocks




                                                           24
                                                       2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                      Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                      Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                       A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                         Level          Level            Level
                                                       5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                      Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
3.3.          Nuclear Surety Programs
              TR: DoD S-5210-42-R; AFI 91-101,
              91-102, 91-103, 91-104, 91-105,
              91-107, 91-111, 91-112, 91-114,
              91-115, 91-116, AFMAN 10-3902
3.3.1.        Two Person Concept
3.3.1.1.      Purpose                                                                                                      A          -       B        -       -
3.3.1.2.      Maintain                                  5                                                                  2b         -       b        -       -
3.3.2.        Personnel Reliability Program                                                                                A          -       B        -       -
              Responsibilities
3.3.3.        Nuclear Weapons and Weapon                                                                                    A         -       A        B       B
              Systems Safety Rules
3.3.4.        Nuclear Mishap and Safety                                                                                     A                 a        B       b
              Deficiency Reports
3.4.          Nuclear Certified Equipment
              TR: AFI 21-200, 63-125, and
              MNCL
3.4.1.        Description/Positive Identification /                                                                         A         -       B        -       -
              Restrictions
3.4.2.        Perform Nuclear Certification             5                                                                  2b         -       a        -       b
              Verification using MNCL
4.            SAFETY AND HEALTH
              PROGRAMS
              TR: AFI 91-203, 91-204, 91-301;
              AFOSHSTDs 48-8, 48-20,91-203;
              AFPD 91-3
4.1.          USAF Mishap Prevention Program                                                                                A         -       B        -       -
4.2.          AFOSH Standards for AFSC 2W2X1                                                                                A         -       B        -       -
4.3.          Lockout/Tagout Procedures                                                                                     A         -       B        -       -
4.4.          Confined Space Procedures                                                                                     -         -       A        -       -
4.5.          Use Personnel Protective Equipment                                                                            b         -       -        -       -
              (PPE)
4.6.          Hoist/Crane/Overhead Gantry
              TR: AFOSHSTD 91-46
4.6.1.        Prior to Use Inspection                   5                                                                  2b         -       b        -       -
4.6.2.        Perform Periodic Inspection               5                                                                  2b         -       -        -       -
4.6.3.        Use                                       5                                                                  2b         -       -        -       -
4.7.          Hazardous Material
              Handling/Disposal/Safety
              TR: AFI 21-204; AFOSHSTD 48-8,
              91-46; TOs 00-110N-2, 11N-45-60
4.7.1.        Responsibilities                          5                                                                   A         -       A        -       B
4.7.2.        Identification/Disposal Methods
4.7.2.1       91B Waste                                 5                                                                   A         -       B        -       B
4.7.2.2.      RCRA                                      5                                                                   A         -       B        -       B
4.8.          Explosive Safety
              TR: AFI 32-1065, 91-203; AFMAN
              91-201; AFOSHSTD 91-501;
              TOs 11N-20-11, 11N-20-11A, 11N-
              35-51, 11N-20-7; NFPA780
4.8.1.        Basic Explosive Safety                    5                                                                   A         -       B        -       B
4.9.          Fire Protection                                                                                               A         -       B        -       -
4.10.         Lightning Protection                                                                                          A         -       A        B       B
4.11.         Static Electricity and Grounding                                                                              A         -       B        -       -
4.12.         Electro Static Sensitive Devices          5                                                                   A         -       B        -       -
              (ESSDs)


                                                              25
                                                     2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                    Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                    Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                     A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                       Level          Level            Level
                                                     5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                    Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
4.13.         Radiation Safety
              TR: AFI 48-20, 91-108, 91-203;
              AFOSHSTD 91-501;
              TOs: 11N-20-5, 11N-20-7
4.13.1.       Basic Radiation Safety                  5                                                                   A         -       B        -       -
4.13.2.       ALARA                                                                                                       A         -       B        -       -
4.13.3.       INRAD/Dosimeter                                                                                             A         -       B        -       -
4.13.4.       Plutonium Hazards                                                                                           A         -       B        -       -
4.13.5.       Tritium Hazards                         5                                                                   A         -       B        -       -
4.14.         Fire Fighting Equipment/Systems
              TR: AFI 32-2001, 91-203;
              AFOSHSTD 91-501
4.14.1.       Purpose                                                                                                    1a         -       -        -       -
4.14.2.       Inspect/Use                                                                                                1a         -       -        -       -
5             MAINTENANCE
              MANAGEMENT
              TR: AFI 21-101, 21-2XX Series,
              63-103; AFPD 90-1
5.1.          Organization and Function of the
              Maintenance Management System
              TR: TO 00-20-2
5.1.1.        Fundamentals                                                                                                -         -       A        -       B
5.1.2.        Integrated Maintenance Data Systems                                                                         -         -       A        -       B
              (IMDS)
5.1.3.        Combat Ammunition System (CAS)                                                                              -         -       -        -       -
5.1.4.        Air Force Nuclear Munitions                                                                                 -         -       A        -       B
              Command and Control SharePoint
5.2.          Processing and Controlling
              Material
              TR: AFI 20-101, 20-110, 21-203, 21-
              204, 23-210; AFMAN 23-110 V2
              Part 13, Chap 1,4,5,7,&8, 23-110
              V7 Part 3, 23-220; TOs 00-20-14,
              33K-1-100-1&-2, 32B14-3-1-101,
              42B-1-1
5.2.1.        Bench Stock Management                                                                                      -         -       A        -       -
5.2.2.        Shelf Life Management                                                                                       -         -       A        B       -
5.2.3.        NWRM                                                                                                        -         -       -        -       -
5.2.3.1.      Fundamentals                                                                                                A         -       -        -       -
5.2.3.2.      Management                              7                                                                   -                 B        B       B
5.2.4.        Test Measurement Diagnostic                                                                                 -         -       A        B       B
              Equipment (TMDE) Management
5.2.5.        Equipment Account Management                                                                                -         -       -        -       -
5.2.6.        Due In For Maintenance (DIFM)                                                                               -         -       -        -       B
              Process Management
5.2.7.        Mission Capability (MICAP) Process                                                                          -         -       -        -       B
              Management
5.2.8.        Initiate/Document Cannibalization                                                                           -         -       -        -       -
              Actions
5.3.          Inspect/Evaluation Programs
              TR: AFI 21-101; 21-200; 21-204;
              90-201; AFPD 90-2; CJCS 36-
              3263.05
5.3.1.        Quality Assurance
5.3.1.1.      Responsibilities                                                                                            A         -       A        B       B
5.3.1.2.      Inspection Requirements                                                                                     -         -       -        B       B


                                                            26
                                                     2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                    Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                    Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                     A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                       Level          Level            Level
                                                     5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                    Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
5.3.1.3.      Maintenance Standardization and                                                                             -         -       A        B       B
              Evaluation Program
5.3.1.4       Conduct Evaluations and Inspections                                                                         -         -       -        B       b
5.3.1.5.      Initiate QA Documentation                                                                                   -         -       -        -       b
5.3.2         Nuclear Weapons Task Certification                                                                          -         -       A        B       B
              Requirements
5.3.3.        Higher Headquarters Inspections                                                                             A         -       A        B       B
5.3.4.        Exercises/Evaluations                                                                                       -         -       A        -       B
6.            SUPERVISION
              TR: AFI 21-200, 21-202, 21-204, 63-
              103
6.1.          Plan/Schedule Work Assignments                                                                              -         -       -        b       -
              and Priorities
6.2.          Prepare/Maintain AF Form 2435           7                                                                   -         -        -       b       b
6.3.          Prepare/Maintain AF Form 1098                                                                               -         -        -       b       b
7.            TRAINING
              TR: AFI 21-204, 36-2101, 36-2201,
              36-2232
7.1.          Evaluate Personnel to Determine                                                                             -         -       -        -       b
              Training Needs
7.2.          Plan and Supervise OJT
7.2.1.        Conduct/Evaluate Training                                                                                   -         -       -        b       a
7.2.2.        Prepare Job Qualification Standards                                                                         -         -       -        b       a
7.2.3.        Training Business Area (TBA)                                                                               1a         -       A        -       -
8.            PUBLICATIONS
8.1.          Policies, Directives, and
              Publications
              TR: AFI 33-360
8.1.1.        Use/Maintain                                                                                               1a         -       -        -       -
8.2.          USAF Technical Order System
              TR: AFI 21-204; TOs 00-5-1,
              11N-1-1
8.2.1.        Use Technical Orders When               5                                                                  2b         -       B        -       -
              Performing Tasks
8.2.2.        Maintain Technical Order Files
              TR: TOs 0-1-01, 00-5-1, 00-5-2, 00-
              5-18, 11N-5-1
8.2.2.1.      Perform TODO Functions                                                                                      -         -       -        -       -
8.2.2.2.      Perform TODA Functions                                                                                      -         -       -        -       -
8.3.          Technical Manual Improvement                                                                                A         -       B        -       B
              System/Reports
9.            FORMS, RECORDS, AND
              REPORTS
9.1.          Use Forms
              TR: AFI 21-203, 21-204, 21-205;
              AFMAN 23-110; TOs 11N-100-2,
              11N-100-4, 00-20-2, 00-20-3
9.1.1.        AF Form 36, Supply Document                                                                                 -         -       -        -       -
              Register
9.1.2.        AF Form 1764, Major                     7                                                                   -         -       a        b       b
              Assembly/Component Status Change
              Report
9.1.3.        AF Form 2432, Key Issue Log             5                                                                  2b         -       b        -       b
9.1.4.        AF Form 2427, Lock and Key              5                                                                   a         -       b        -       b
              Control Register
9.1.5.        AFTO Form 95, Significant               5                                                                   a         -       a        B       b
              Historical Data

                                                            27
                                                      2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                     Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                     Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                      A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                        Level          Level            Level
                                                      5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                     Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
9.1.6.        AFTO Form 244, Industrial Support        5                                                                  2b           -     a        B       b
              Equipment Record
9.1.7.        DD Form 1500 Series, Condition           5                                                                  2b           -     a        B       b
              Status Tags
9.1.8.        DD Form 1348-1A, Single Line Item                                                                            -           -     a        B       b
              Release/Receipt Document
9.1.9.        AF Form 2005 Issue/Turn in Request                                                                           a           -     b        -       -
9.1.10.       DD Form 1911, Material Courier                                                                               -           -     -        -       -
              Receipt
9.1.11.       DD Form 1150, Request for Issue or                                                                           -           -     b        -       -
              Turn-in
9.1.12.       DOE/NRC Form 741, Nuclear                                                                                    -           -     -        -       -
              Material Transaction Report
9.1.13.       AF Form 504, Weapons Custody                                                                                 -           -     -        -       -
              Transfer Document
9.1.14.       AF Form 4352A/B, Command                                                                                     -           -     -        -       -
              Disablement System Code
9.1.15.       AF Form 2407, Weekly/Daily Flying                                                                            -           -     -        -       -
              Schedule Coordination
9.1.16.       SF Form 5700 Inspection Record           7                                                                   -           -     a        -       b
              Card/Electronic IRC
9.1.17.       AF Form 68 Munitions Authorization                                                                           -           -     -        -       -
              Record
9.2.          Initiate/Process Deficiency Reports
              TR: AFI 21-204, 91-204;
              AFMAN 91-221; TOs 00-25-107,
              00-35D-54
9.2.1.        Deficiency Reports                       7                                                                   a           -     a       2b       b
9.2.2.        Maintenance/Technical Assistance         7                                                                   a           -     a       2b       b
              Request
9.3.          Manual Nuclear Weapons
              Configuration Records (Build-up
              Sheets)
9.3.1.        Prepare/Use                              7                                                                   a           -     a       2b       b
9.3.2.        Certify                                  7                                                                   a           -     a       2b       b
9.4.          Use DIAMONDS
              TR: CJCSI 3150.04; AFI 21-204;
              TOs 11N-5-1, 11N-35-7, 11N-35-50,
              11N-3150-8-1; TP 100-3150;
              Users Manual
9.4.1.        Fundamentals                                                                                                 A           -     -        -       -
9.4.2.        Security Measures                                                                                            -           -     -        -       -
9.4.3.        Prepare/Use                                                                                                  -           -     -        -       -
9.4.4.        Use Publications                                                                                             -           -     -        -       -
9.4.5.        Process Electronic Nuclear Weapons                                                                           -           -     -        -       -
              Configuration Records
9.4.6.        Process Unsatisfactory Reports           7                                                                   -           -     a        b       b
9.4.7.        Process Electronic Inspection Record     7                                                                   -           -     a        b       b
              Cards
9.4.8.        Process Weapon Information Reports       7                                                                   -           -     a        b       b
9.4.9.        Process Status Change Reports            7                                                                   -           -     a        b       b
9.4.10.       Process Weapon Status Reports                                                                                -           -     -        -       a
9.4.11.       Process Container Asset Reports                                                                              -           -     -        -       a
9.4.12.       Process Quality Assurance Service                                                                            -           -     -        -       a
              Test Status Reports
9.4.13.       Use Location Inventory Listing           7                                                                   -           -     a        b       b
9.4.14.       Storage Location Planning Report         7                                                                   -       -         a        b       b
                                                             28
                                                       2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                      Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                      Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                       A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                         Level          Level            Level
                                                       5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                      Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
9.4.15.       Perform Data Base Maintenance                                                                                 -         -       -        -       -
9.4.16.       Correct Erroneous Entries                                                                                     -         -       -        -       -
9.4.17.       Training, Test or Exercise Processing                                                                         -         -       -        -       -
9.4.18.       Assistance and Problem Reporting                                                                              -         -       -        -       -
10            MUNITIONS CONTROL/PLANS
              AND SCHEDULING
              TR: AFI 21-200
10.1          Directing and Controlling
10.1.1.       Munitions Control Fundamentals                                                                                A         -       -        B       -
10.1.2.       Initiate Recall and Emergency Action                                                                          -         -       -        -       -
              Checksheets
10.2.         Coordinate Activities
10.2.1.       Coordinate Munitions Requirements                                                                             -         -       -        -       -
10.2.2.       Advise Agencies of Maintenance                                                                                -         -       -        -       -
              Activities
10.2.3.       Coordinate Entry Requirements with                                                                            -         -       -        -       -
              Security Forces
10.2.4.       Advise Security Forces of Movement                                                                            -         -       -        -       -
              or Rewarehousing
10.2.5.       Advise Fire Department of Fire                                                                                -         -       -        -       -
              Symbol and Line Number Changes
10.2.6.       Coordinate Work Request with                                                                                  -         -       -        -       -
              Appropriate Agencies
10.2.7.       Coordinate Emergency Response                                                                                 -         -       -        -       -
              Activities
10.3.         Maintain Documentation
10.3.1.       War and Contingency Plans                                                                                     -         -       -        -       -
10.3.2.       Inspection/Test of Static Ground and                                                                          -         -       -        B       -
              Lightning Protect Systems
10.3.3.       Inspection/Test of Hoists                                                                                     -         -       -        -       -
10.3.4.       Storage Location Planning Report                                                                              -         -       -        -       -
10.4.         Planning and Scheduling
10.4.1.       Verify Bomb, RS, or Launch Gear           7                                                                   -         -       -        -       -
              Configuration against Mission
              Requirements
10.4.2.       Assign ID Numbers                                                                                             -         -       -        -       -
10.4.3.       Assign Job Control Numbers                                                                                    -         -       -        -       -
10.4.4.       Work Priorities                                                                                               -         -       -        B       -
10.4.5.       Initiate Work Orders                                                                                          -         -       -        -       -
10.4.6.       AWM/AWP Program                                                                                               -         -       -        -       -
10.4.7.       TCTO Program                                                                                                  -         -       -        -       -
10.4.8.       Training, Special Activities, and                                                                             -         -       -        -       -
              Exercises
10.4.9.       UR Status                                                                                                     -         -       -        B       -
10.4.10.      Prepare Forecasts, Plans, and                                                                                 -         -       -        B       A
              Schedules
10.4.11.      Conduct Scheduling Meetings                                                                                   -         -       -        -       -
10.4.12.      Distribute Schedules                                                                                          -         -       -        -       -
10.4.13.      Schedule Changes                          7                                                                   -         -       -        B       A
11.           NUCLEAR ACCOUNTABILITY
              AND REPORTING
11.1.         Management and Administration
              TR: AFI 21-203; AFMAN 23-110;
              TOs 11N-100-1, 11N-100-2,
              11N-100-4, 11N-3150-8-1
11.1.1.       Administrative                                                                                                -         -       A        -       B

                                                              29
                                                       2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                      Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                      Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                       A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                         Level          Level            Level
                                                       5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                      Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
11.1.2.       Local Inventory Procedures                                                                                    -         -       -        -       -
11.1.3.       Stockpile Emergency Verifications                                                                             A         -       A        B       A
11.1.4.       Manage Nuclear Accounts
11.1.4.1.     MASO Responsibilities                                                                                         -         -       -        B       A
11.2.         Weapons Custody
              TR: AFI 21-203
11.2.1.       Fundamentals                                                                                                  A         -       B        -       -
11.2.2.       Custody Transfer (Operational
              Movements)
11.2.2.1.     ICBM RS to/from Alert Status                                                                                  -         -       a        -       -
11.2.2.2.     ICBM RS Swap Between Launch                                                                                   -         -       a        -       -
              Facilities
11.2.2.3.     Missile/Bomb and Pylon/Launcher                                                                               -         -       a        -       -
              to/from Combat Aircraft
11.2.2.4.     Swap of Single Missile/Bomb                                                                                   -         -       a        -       -
11.2.2.5.     Relocate, Deploy or Disperse Aircraft                                                                         -         -       a        -       -
11.2.3.       Custody Transfer (Logistics
              Movements)
11.2.3.1.     Nuclear Weapons/Components/Test                                                                               -         -       a        -       -
              Items to/from Logistics Aircraft
11.2.3.2.     Nuclear Weapons/Components/Test                                                                               -         -       a        -       -
              Items to/from Safeguards Transport
11.3.         Accounting Procedures
              TR: CJCSI 3150.04; AFI 20-110,
              21-203; TOs 11N-100-1, 11N-100-2,
              11N-100-4, 100-3150, 11N3150-8-1
11.3.1.       Document Control
11.3.1.1.     Use Supply Document Register                                                                                  -         -       -        -       -
11.3.2.       Stock Control
11.3.2.1.     DOE Major Assemblies                                                                                          -         -       -        -       -
11.3.2.2.     WR Containers and Bolsters                                                                                    -         -       -        -       -
11.3.2.3.     NWRM                                                                                                          -         -       -        -       -
11.3.2.4.     Military Spares                                                                                               -         -       A        -       -
11.3.2.5.     Base Spares
11.3.2.5.1.   Unit Spare Authorization Listing                                                                              -         -       A        -       B
              (USAL)
11.3.3.       Excess Item Reporting and
              Disposition of Assets
11.3.3.1.     Excess Serviceable Base Spares                                                                                -         -       -        -       -
11.3.3.2.     Excess Serviceable Military Spares                                                                            -         -       -        -       -
11.3.3.3.     Unserviceable Reparable Items                                                                                 -         -       -        -       -
11.3.3.4.     Unserviceable Consumable Items                                                                                -         -       -        -       -
11.3.4.       Requisitions                                                                                                  -         -       A        -       -
11.3.5.       Receipt of Material
11.3.5.1.     Inspecting Material Upon Receipt                                                                              -         -       A        -       -
11.3.5.2.     Processing Receipt Documents                                                                                  -         -       -        -       -
11.3.6.       Shipment of Material
              TR AFI 11-
              299;                    TO 11N-45-
              51 Series
11.3.6.1.     General Guidelines                                                                                            A         -       A        B       B
11.3.6.2.     Preparing and Processing Shipping                                                                             -         -       a        B       b
              Documents
              TR: AFI 21-203; TOs 11N-100-2,
              11N-100-4
11.3.7.       Issues, Turn-ins and Expenditures
                                                              30
                                                      2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                     Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                     Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                      A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                        Level          Level            Level
                                                      5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                     Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
11.3.7.1.     Prepare/Process Issue, Turn-in and                                                                           -         -       b        -       -
              Expenditure Documents
11.3.8.       Custodian Accounting Procedures                                                                              -         -       -        -       -
11.3.9.       Accounting for TCTO and Retrofit                                                                             -         -       B        -       B
              Kits
11.3.10.      Prepare Stock Change Vouchers                                                                                -         -       -        -       -
              (SCV)
11.3.11.      Inventories of Accounts
11.3.11.1.    Semi-Annual Inventory Procedures                                                                             -         -       -        B       B
11.3.11.2.    Change of MASO Inventory                                                                                     -         -       -        B       B
              Procedures
11.3.11.3.    Special Inventories                                                                                          -         -       -        B       B
11.3.11.4.    Monthly Spot Check Inventories                                                                               -         -       -        B       B
11.3.11.5.    Inventory Documentation                                                                                      -         -       -        B       B
11.3.12.      Account for Lost, Damaged or                                                                                 -         -       -        -       -
              Destroyed Property
11.3.13.      Posting Inventory Adjustments                                                                                -         -       -        -       -
11.3.14.      Audits of Accounts                                                                                           -         -       -        -       -
12.           NUCLEAR WEAPONS
              SUMMARY
              TR: TOs 11N-BXX-0, 11N-BXX-1,
              11N-BXX-1A, 11N-WXX-1,
              11N-4-1, 11N-20-7
12.1.         Nuclear History                                                                                              A         -       A        -       A
12.2.         Nuclear Theory                                                                                               A         -       B        -       B
12.3.         Operation/Function/Effects of                                                                                A         -       B        -       B
              Nuclear Weapons
12.4.         Safety Features of Nuclear Weapons                                                                           A         -       B        -       B
13.           GENERAL NUCLEAR
              WEAPONS MAINTENANCE
              TR: TOs 11N-35-51, 11N-35-51A
13.1.         General
13.1.1        Use of DOE-DTRA TP Manuals                                                                                   -         -       -        -       -
13.1.2.       Authorization                                                                                               A          -       B        -       -
13.1.3.       Methods of Referencing TP 35-51          5                                                                  2b         -       B        -       -
              from Other Manuals
13.1.4.       Definitions                                                                                                  A         -       A        -       -
13.1.5.       Commercial Equipment                                                                                         A         -       B        -       -
13.1.6.       Marking in Manuals                                                                                           A         -       B        -       -
13.1.7        Expendable Materials                                                                                         A         -       B        -       -
13.2.         Standard Specifications and
              Procedures for Nuclear Weapons
13.2.1.       General Standards and Procedures                                                                             A         -       B        B       -
13.2.2.       Location                                                                                                     A         -       B        -       -
13.2.3.       General Procedures
13.2.3.1.     Sequence of Procedures                                                                                       A         -       B        -       -
13.2.3.2.     Pressure Testing                                                                                             -         -       -        -       -
13.2.3.3.     Test Set Indications                                                                                         A         -       B        -       -
13.2.3.4.     Multiple Status Checks Using T304                                                                            -         -       -        -       -
              Multiple Purpose Continuity Test Set
13.2.3.5.     AC Devices                                                                                                   -         -       -        -       -
13.2.3.6.     Connect, Disconnect, and Protect         5                                                                  2b         -       B        -       -
              Electrical Connectors
13.2.4.       Inspection Procedures
13.2.4.1.     Limitations                                                                                                  A         -       B        -       -
13.2.4.2.     War Reserve Material                                                                                         A         -       B        -       -

                                                             31
                                                     2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                    Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                    Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                     A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                       Level          Level            Level
                                                     5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                    Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
13.2.4.3.     Manual or Item Changes                                                                                      -         -       -        -       -
13.2.4.4.     Weapon Shipment Overseas                                                                                    -         -       -        -       -
13.2.4.5.     Damage                                  5                                                                  A          -       B        B       B
13.2.4.6.     Corrosion                                                                                                  A          -       B        -       -
13.2.4.7.     Nuclear Weapons                                                                                            A          -       B        -       -
13.2.4.8.     Electrical Connectors                   5                                                                  2b         -       B        -       -
13.2.5.       Maintenance Procedures
13.2.5.1.     Tool Use                                                                                                    A         -       -        -       -
13.2.5.2.     Alternates for Expendable Materials                                                                         -         -       A        -       -
13.2.5.3.     Limitations on Special Maintenance                                                                          -         -       -        -       -
              Procedures
13.2.5.4.     Modifications of Material                                                                                   -         -       -        -       -
13.2.5.5.     Replacement Parts                                                                                           -         -       -        -       -
13.2.5.6.     Stockpile Samples                                                                                           -         -       A        -       -
13.2.5.7.     Retirement Units                                                                                            -         -       A        -       -
13.2.5.8.     Weapon Temperature                                                                                          A         -       B        -       -
13.2.5.9.     Protection Against Moisture                                                                                 A         -       B        -       -
13.2.5.10.    Unseal Weapons                                                                                              A         -       B        -       -
13.2.5.11.    Maintain Association of Weapon                                                                              A         -       B        -       -
              Components
13.2.5.12.    Use Handling Equipment                                                                                      A         -       B        -       -
13.2.5.13.    Hydrazine Contamination                                                                                               -       -        -       -
13.2.5.14.    Critical Markings                                                                                          A          -       B        -       -
13.2.5.15.    Equalization of Body Potential                                                                             2b         -       B        -       -
13.2.6.       Storage Procedures
13.2.6.1.     Empty Weapon DOE Storage                                                                                    A         -       A        -       -
              Containers
13.2.6.2.     Bomb and Warhead Hand                                                                                       A         -       A        -       -
              Trucks/Containers
13.2.7.       Transportation Procedures
13.2.7.1.     Maneuverability of Hand Trucks and                                                                         2b         -       A        -       -
              Containers with Casters
13.2.7.2.     Immobilization of Hand Trucks and                                                                          2b         -       B        -       -
              Containers with Casters
13.2.8.       Hazardous Expendable Materials
13.2.8.1.     Maintenance                                                                                                 B         -       B        -       -
13.2.8.2.     Personal Protection                                                                                         B         -       B        -       -
13.2.9.       Personnel Safety Precautions                                                                                B         -       B        -       -
13.3.         Cleaning
13.3.1.       General                                                                                                     A         -       B        -       -
13.3.2.       Cleaning Materials                                                                                          A         -       B        -       -
13.3.3.       Cleaning Practices, Component or                                                                            A         -       B        -       -
              Assembly Cleaning
13.3.4.       Cleaning Procedures
13.3.4.1.     Clean with Vacuum                                                                                          2b         -       b        -       -
13.3.4.2.     Clean with Solvents                                                                                         b         -       b        -       -
13.3.4.3.     Clean by Abrasion                                                                                          1b         -       b        -       -
13.3.4.4.     Clean Corrosion from Coated Areas                                                                          b          -       b        -       -
13.3.4.5.     Clean Corrosion from Uncoated                                                                              b          -       b        -       -
              Areas
13.3.4.6      Clean Fungus Growth from Rubber                                                                             b         -       b        -       -
              Surfaces
13.3.4.7.     Clean Fungus Growth from                                                                                    b         -       b        -       -
              Unpainted Metal Surfaces
13.3.4.8.     Clean Fungus Growth from Painted                                                                            b         -       b        -       -
              Metal Surfaces
                                                            32
                                                      2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                     Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                     Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                      A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                        Level          Level            Level
                                                      5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                     Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
13.3.4.9.     Clean Fungus Growth from Coated                                                                              b         -       b        -       -
              Cloth
13.3.5.       Special Cleaning Processes
13.3.5.1.     Remove Epoxy-Resin Adhesives                                                                                 -         -       -        -       -
13.3.5.2.     Clean Preformed Packings (O-Rings)                                                                          1b         -       b        -       -
13.3.5.3.     Clean Electrical Connectors                                                                                 1b         -       b        -       -
13.3.5.4.     Remove or Dilute Hydrazine                                                                                   -         -       -        -       -
              Contamination
13.4.         Preserving Surfaces
13.4.1.       General                                                                                                      A         -       B        -       -
13.4.2.       Preserve Aluminum
13.4.2.1.     Unpainted Aluminum                                                                                           b         -       b        -       -
13.4.2.2.     Paint Treated Aluminum                                                                                       b         -       b        -       -
13.4.3.       Preserve Steel
13.4.3.1.     Cleaning                                                                                                     b         -       b        -       -
13.4.3.2.     Pretreatment Coating                                                                                         b         -       b        -       -
13.4.3.3.     Organic Finish                                                                                               b         -       b        -       -
13.4.4.       Repair Surface Preservations
13.4.4.1.     Epoxy Resin                                                                                                  -         -       -        -       -
13.4.4.2.     Polyurethane Coating Compound                                                                                -         -       -        -       -
13.4.5.       Preservation Application
13.4.5.1.     Thermal Resistant Coating                                                                                    -         -       -        -       -
13.4.5.2.     Organic Finish                                                                                               -         -       -        -       -
13.5.         Identification Markings
13.5.1.       General Procedures
13.5.1.1.     Referencing Documents                                                                                        A         -       B        -       -
13.5.1.2.     Permissible Variations in Markings                                                                           A         -       B        -       -
13.5.1.3.     Agreements                                                                                                   -         -       B        -       -
13.5.1.4.     Permanent Marking of Bombs and                                                                               A         -       B        -       -
              Warheads
13.5.2.       Marking Materials                                                                                            A         -       B        -       -
13.5.3.       General Marking Methods                                                                                      A         -       B        -       -
13.5.4.       Tag and Label Markings                                                                                       -         -       -        -       -
13.5.5.       Marking War Reserve and Non-
              War Reserve Materials
13.5.5.1.     War Reserve                                                                                                  b         -       b        -       -
13.5.5.2.     Non-War Reserve                                                                                              -         -       b        -       -
13.5.6.       Perform Container Marking                                                                                    b         -       b        -       -
13.5.7.       Change Identification Markings                                                                               b         -       b        -       -
13.5.8.       Marking Shipping Containers                                                                                  b         -       b        -       -
13.6.         Packaging
13.6.1.       General Instructions                                                                                         A         -       B        -       -
13.6.2.       General Packaging Information                                                                                A         -       B        -       -
13.6.3.       Detailed Packaging Methods
13.6.3.1.     General                                                                                                     A          -       B        -       -
13.6.3.2.      Method I-Preservation Material Only                                                                         -         -       -        -       -
13.6.3.3.     Method IA-Water-Vaporproof                                                                                  2b         -       b        -       -
13.6.3.4.     Method IC-Waterproof                                                                                         -         -       -        -       -
13.6.3.5.     Method II-Water-Vaporproof with                                                                             A          -       B        -       -
              Desiccant
13.6.3.6.     Method III-Physical and Mechanical                                                                           -         -       -        -       -
              Protection Only
13.6.4.       Packaging for Shipment                                                                                       -         -       a        -       -
13.6.5.       Opening and Closing Containers
13.6.5.1.     Open/Close Wood Boxes                                                                                        -         -       -        -       -

                                                             33
                                                      2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                     Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                     Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                      A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                        Level          Level            Level
                                                      5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                     Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
13.6.5.2.     Open/Close Drum-Type Containers                                                                             2b         -       b        -       -
13.6.5.3.     Closing 9-Gallon Drum-Type                                                                                   -         -       -        -       -
              Containers
13.6.6.       Package or Unpackage Limited
              Life Components
13.6.6.1.     Package or Unpackage Reservoirs                                                                             2b         -       b        -       -
13.6.6.2.     Package or Unpackage Neutron                                                                                 -         -       -        -       -
              Generator Assemblies
13.6.6.3.     Complete Red Tag                                                                                             a         -       b        -       -
13.6.7.       Miscellaneous Packaging Details                                                                              -         -       -        -       -
13.6.8.       Remove or Install Humidity Indicator                                                                         -         -       -        -       -
              Plugs
13.7.         Joining and Sealing
13.7.1.       General                                                                                                      A         -       B        -       -
13.7.2.       Standard Hardware Removal
13.7.2.1.     Remove Damaged Bolts, Studs, and                                                                             -         -       -        -       -
              Screws
13.7.2.2.     Remove Rivets                                                                                                -         -       -        -       -
13.7.3.       Standard Hardware Installation
13.7.3.1.     Install Bolts, Screws, Washers, and                                                                         2b         -       b        -       -
              Nuts
13.7.3.2.     Install Cotter Pins                                                                                          -         -       b        -       -
13.7.3.3.     Install Rivets                                                                                               -         -       -        -       -
13.7.3.4.     Perform Hardware Inspection                                                                                  -         -       -        -       -
              procedures
13.7.4        Tighten Threaded Fasteners to a
              Measured Torque Value
              TR: TOs 00-20-14, 11N-35-51,
              32B14-3-1-101, 33K6-4-2193-1
13.7.4.1.     General Torquing Procedures                                                                                 A          -       B        -       -
13.7.4.2.     Torque Values                                                                                                -         -       -        -       -
13.7.4.3.     Method I (Using a tester)                                                                                    -         -       -        -       -
13.7.4.4.     Method III (Using Calculations)          5                                                                  2b         -       b        -       -
13.7.4.5.     Prepare/Inspect/Use Torque Tools         5                                                                  2b         -       b        -       -
13.7.4.6.     Maintain Torque Tools                    5                                                                  2b         -       b        -       -
13.7.5.       Special Hardware Replacement
13.7.5.1.     Replace Flush-Type Hi-Shear Rivets                                                                           -         -       -        -       -
              with Screws
13.7.5.2.     Replace Threaded Inserts                                                                                     -         -       -        -       -
13.7.5.3.     Replace Quick-Acting Fasteners                                                                               -         -       -        -       -
13.7.6.       Safety Wiring
13.7.6.1.     General Safety-Wire Procedures           5                                                                  B          -       B        -       -
13.7.6.2.     Standard Procedures                      5                                                                  B          -       B        -       -
13.7.6.3.     Safety-Wire Threaded Fasteners           5                                                                  2b         -       b        -       -
13.7.6.4.     Safety-Wire Miniature and Coaxial-                                                                           -         -       -        -       -
              Type Electrical Connectors
13.7.6.5.     Safety-Wire AN and SA-AN-Type                                                                               2b         -       b        -       -
              Connectors
13.7.7.       Bonding Materials
13.7.7.1.     General Bonding Procedures                                                                                   A         -       B        -       -
13.7.7.2.     Prepare Surfaces                                                                                             a         -       b        -       -
13.7.7.3.     Use Rubber-Base Adhesives                                                                                    a         -       b        -       -
13.7.7.4.     Use Silicone Rubber Adhesives                                                                                a         -       b        -       -
13.7.7.5.     Use Epoxy-Resin Adhesive                                                                                     -         -       -        -       -
13.7.8.       Staking
13.7.8.1.     Stake Mechanically                                                                                           -                 a        -       -
                                                             34
                                                      2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                     Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                     Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                      A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                        Level          Level            Level
                                                      5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                     Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
13.7.8.2.     Stake with Paint                                                                                             -         -       a        -       -
13.7.8.3.     Stake with Electrical Insulating                                                                             a         -       a        -       -
              Compound (Glyptal)
13.7.8.4.     Stake with Sealing Compound                                                                                  a         -       b        -       -
              (Loctite)
13.7.9.       Apply Sealing Compounds
13.7.9.1.     Prepare Shipping and Storing Sealant                                                                         -         -       -        -       -
              Kits
13.7.9.2.     Sampling Sealant Kits                                                                                        -         -       -        -       -
13.7.9.3.     Mix Sealant                                                                                                  a         -       -        -       -
13.7.9.4.     Inspect Mixed Sealant                                                                                        -         -       -        -       -
13.7.9.5.     Prepare Test Specimens                                                                                       -         -       -        -       -
13.7.9.6.     Check Hardness                                                                                               -         -       -        -       -
13.7.9.7.     Prepare Surfaces for Sealant                                                                                 -         -       -        -       -
              Application
13.7.10.      Lubricate Preformed Packing, O-                                                                              a         -       b        -       -
              rings and Other Elastomeric Seals
13.8.         Maintain Electrical Cables
13.8.1.       General Procedures                                                                                           a         -       B        -       -
13.8.2.       Repair Minor Damage in Cable
              Exterior
13.8.2.1.     Repair Silicone Jacket                                                                                       a         -       b        -       -
13.8.2.2.     Repair Black Synthetic Rubber                                                                                a         -       b        -       -
              (Neoprene) Insulation
13.9.         Repair Metals, Plastics, Fabrics,
              and other Materials
13.9.1.       General                                                                                                      B         -       B        -       -
13.9.2.       Measure Surface Irregularities
13.9.2.1.     General Measuring Requirements                                                                              B          -       B        -       -
13.9.2.2.     Use Straightedge                         5                                                                  2b         -       b        -       -
13.9.2.3.     Use Contour Template                                                                                        2b         -       b        -       -
13.9.2.4.     Use Adjustable-Curve Drafting Ruler                                                                         2b         -       -        -       -
13.9.2.5.     Use Machinist’s Steel Rule               5                                                                  2b         -       b        -       -
13.9.2.6.     Use Gap-Setting Gage                     5                                                                  2b         -       b        -       -
13.9.2.7.     Use Dial Indicating/Digital Depth        5                                                                  2b         -       b        -       -
              Gage
13.9.2.8.     Use Measuring Magnifier                                                                                     2b         -       b        -       -
13.9.2.9.     Micrometer
              TR: TO 32-1-101
13.9.2.9.1.   Use Optical Micrometer                   5                                                                  2b         -       b        -       -
13.9.2.9.2.   Use Depth Micrometer                                                                                        2b         -       b        -       -
13.9.3.       Repair Metal Surface Depressions by                                                                          -         -       -        -       -
              Filling
13.9.4.       Repair Reusable Metal Containers                                                                             B         -       B        -       -
13.9.5.       Repair Fabrics and Fabric-Type                                                                               -         -       -        -       -
              Security Covers
13.10.        Miscellaneous Maintenance
              Operations
13.10.1.      Inspect/Use Gas Cylinders                                                                                   1b         -       B        -       -
              TR: TOs 35-1-236WC-1,
              35D3-6-33-13, 42B5-1-2
13.10.2.      Regulate Pressurizing and Purging                                                                           1b         -       B        -       -
              Systems
13.10.3.      Prepare Empty Pressurizing Gas                                                                               -         -       -        -       -
              Cylinders for Return Shipment
              (Special Dry Air)

                                                             35
                                                    2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                   Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                   Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                    A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                      3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                      Level          Level            Level
                                                    5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                   Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
13.11.        Handtools
              TR: TOs 32-1-2, 32-1-101, 32-1-151
13.11.1.      Inspect/Use/Maintain                                                                                      2b         -       B        -       -
13.11.2.      Repair                                                                                                     -         -       -        -       -
13.12.        Handling Equipment
              TR: TOs 11N-H, 11N-HRV50XX-2,
              35E15-10-1, 11N-H12-2, 33A2-2-23-
              31, 35C2-3-469-11
13.12.1.      Inspect/Use/Maintain                                                                                      2b         -       b        -       -
13.12.2.      Repair                                                                                                    b          -       b        -       -
13.13.        Perform Pre-operational Inspection                                                                         -         -       -        -       -
              and Operate Hydraulic Systems
              Portable Test Stand (MULE)
13.14.        Perform Pre-operational Inspection                                                                         b         -       -        -       -
              and Operate A/M32A-86D Diesel
              Generator Set (HOBART)
13.15.        Electrical Principles
              TR: TO 00-25-234
13.15.1.      Safety Precautions                                                                                        A          -       B        -       -
13.15.2.      AC/DC Terms                                                                                               A          -       B        -       -
13.15.3.      Use Digital Meters                                                                                        1a         -       b        -       -
13.16.        Testing Equipment
13.16.1.      Inspect/Use and Maintain Test
              Equipment
13.16.1.1.    Inspect/Use/Maintain                                                                                      2b         -       b        -       -
13.16.1.2.    Common Test Equipment                                                                                      -         -       b        -       -
              TR: 11N-T55A
13.16.1.3.    AN/PDR74A Tritium Monitoring Set                                                                          2b         -       a        -       -
              TR: TO 11N-T74A-2
13.16.1.4.    T566, Digital Multimeter                                                                                  2b         -       a        -       -
              TR: TO 11N-T566-2
13.16.1.5.    T557, Digital Thermometer                                                                                 2b         -       a        -       -
              TR: TO 11N-T557-2
13.16.1.6.    T569, Non-Nuclear Verification                                                                             -         -       -        -       -
              Tester with Non-Nuclear Assurance
              Program Field Procedures
              TR: TO 11N-T569-2
13.16.1.7.    Test Set, Arming & Fuzing Assembly                                                                         -         -       -        -       -
              P/N 23035019G1
              TR: 11N-TRV5530-2
13.16.1.8.    TTU-611/611E Test Set, Explosive                                                                           -         -       -        -       -
              Set Circuitry
              TR: TO 33D-38-15-21
13.16.1.9.    Test Set, Reentry System A/E24T-89                                                                         -         -       -        -       -
              TR: TO 11N-TRV5099-2
13.16.1.10.   Test Set, Safety Enhanced Reentry                                                                          -         -       -        -       -
              Vehicle Field P/N 23035220G1
              TR: TO 11N-TRV5528-2
13.16.1.11.   Reentry Vehicle Tester, MK21                                                                               -         -       -        -       -
              TR: TO 11N-TRV5531-2
13.16.1.12    Digital Igniter Circuit Tester                                                                             -         -       -        -       -
              (Valhalla)
13.16.2.      Troubleshoot Test Equipment                                                                                -         -       -        -       -
14.           USE CONTROL (UC)
              TR: CJCSM 3260.01; AFI 21-205;
              TOs 11N-45-51, 11N-50-4
14.1.         Systems Overview

                                                           36
                                                      2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                     Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                     Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                      A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                        Level          Level            Level
                                                      5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                     Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
14.1.1.       Verifiable Control Procedures                                                                                A         -       A        B       B
14.1.2.       Permissive Action Link (PAL)                                                                                 A         -       A        B       B
14.1.2.1.     B61                                                                                                          -         -       -        -       -
14.1.2.2.     W80                                                                                                          -         -       -        -       -
14.1.2.3.     B83                                                                                                          -         -       -        -       -
14.1.2.4.     W84                                                                                                          -         -       -        -       -
14.1.3.       Command Disablement                                                                                          A         -       A        B       B
14.2.         Field Code Management System
              TR: TO 11N-UC1620 Series
14.2.1.       Equipment Description                                                                                        -         -       A        -       A
14.2.2.       Inspect                                                                                                      -         -       -        -       A
14.2.3.       Maintain                                                                                                     -         -       -        -       A
14.2.4.       Use                                                                                                          -         -       -        -       A
14.2.5.       Security Requirements                                                                                        -         -       A        B       B
15.           LLC CONTAINERS
              TR: TOs 11N-H1616 Series,
              11N-20-11, 11N-35-51, 11N-35-51A,
              11N-45-51, 11N-100-2, 11N-100-4,
              11N-H1700
15.1.         H1616/H1700 Container
              TR: 11N-H1700
15.1.1.       General/Safety Precautions                                                                                  A          -       A        -       -
15.1.2.       Description                                                                                                 A          -       A        -       -
15.1.3.       Principles of Operation                                                                                     A          -       A        -       -
15.1.4.       Inspection/Repair                                                                                           A          -       -        -       -
15.1.5.       Storage and Shipment                                                                                        A          -       -        -       -
15.1.6.       Unpackage Contents                                                                                          2b         -       b        -       -
15.1.7.       Pack and Close Container                                                                                    2b         -       B        -       -
15.1.8.       Troubleshooting                                                                                             A          -       -        -       -
15.2.         T568
15.2.1.       Description                                                                                                 A          -       A        -       -
15.2.2.       Principles of Operation                                                                                     A          -       A        -       -
15.2.3.       Inspect/Use                                                                                                 2b         -       -        -       -
15.2.4.       Maintain/Repair                                                                                             A          -       -        -       -
15.2.5.       Troubleshoot                                                                                                A          -       b        -       -
15.2.6.       Verification                                                                                                A          -       b        -       -
16            WEAPON HANDLING
              STORAGE AND
              TRANSPORTATION
              TR: AFIs 91-115, 91-201, 21-204;
              TOs 11N-45-51 Series, 13C2-1-1
16.1.         Purpose/Applicability                                                                                        A         -       B        -       -
16.2.         Identification and Placarding                                                                                -         -       -        -       -
16.3.         Shipments
16.3.1.       Major Assemblies                                                                                             A         -       B        -       -
16.3.2.       LLC Components                                                                                               A         -       B        -       -
16.3.3.       Containers                                                                                                   A         -       B        -       -
16.4.         Logistic Movement of Nuclear
              Weapons Material
              TR: DoD S-5210.41-M; AFIs 11-
              299, 21-203, 21-204, 21-205, 91-115;
              AFMAN 31-108, 91-201;
              AFJI 11-204; TOs 11N-20-5,
              11N-20-7, 11N-20-11, 11N-100-2,
              11N-45-51 series, 13C2-1-1
16.4.1.       Policy/Purpose                                                                                               A         -       B        -       -

                                                             37
                                                      2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                     Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                     Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                      A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                        Level          Level            Level
                                                      5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                     Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
16.4.2.       Unit Responsibilities for                                                                                    A         -       A        -       B
              Transporting, Shipping and Receiving
              Nuclear Cargo
16.4.3.       Use Nuclear Ordnance Shipping                                                                                -         -       -        B       B
              Schedule (NOSS)
16.4.4.       Briefing Requirements                                                                                        -         -       -        -       A
16.4.5.       Loading/Blocking and Shoring                                                                                 A         -       B        -       -
16.5.         Special Assignment Airlift Missions
              (SAAM)/DOE Movement
              Coordination
16.5.1.       Bombs                                                                                                        A         -       B        -       -
16.5.2.       Containers                                                                                                   A         -       B        -       -
16.5.3.       Emergency Evacuation                                                                                         A         -       B        -       -
16.6.         SGT Shipment
              TR: AFMAN 91-201; TO 11N-20-5,
              11N-20-7, 11N-45-51 series
16.6.1.       General                                                                                                      A         -       B        -       -
16.6.2.       SGT Preparation
16.6.2.1.     Oxygen Monitoring                                                                                            -         -       -        -       -
16.6.2.2.     Electrical Requirements                                                                                      -         -       -        -       -
16.6.3.       SGT Loading
16.6.3.1.     Inspect/Install/Remove Track Studs                                                                           -         -       a        -       -
16.6.3.2.     Inspect/Install/Remove Tiedown                                                                               -         -       a        -       -
              Adapters and Pear Shaped Rings
16.6.3.3      Inspect/Install/Remove H1694                                                                                 -         -       -        -       -
16.6.3.4.     Use Drum Tiedown Adapters                                                                                    -         -       a        -       -
16.6.3.5.     Load Generic Boxes                                                                                           -         -       -        -       -
16.6.3.6      Overland Palletized Unit Shipper                                                                             -         -       -        -       -
              (OPUS)
16.6.3.7.     Upload/Download/Handling
              Shipping and Storage Containers
              and Bomb Hand Trucks to/from
              SGT
16.6.3.7.1.   H1125A/H1671 Bomb Cradle/H1242                                                                               -         -       -        -       -
              Caster Set
16.6.3.7.2.   H1224A Shipping and Storage                                                                                  -         -       -        -       -
              Container
16.6.3.7.3.   H1333A/1333B Shipping and Storage                                                                            -         -       -        -       -
              Container
16.6.3.7.4.   H1347/H1347A Bomb Hand                                                                                       -         -       -        -       -
              Truck/H795 Caster Set
16.6.3.7.5.   H1388 Shipping and Storage                                                                                   -         -       -        -       -
              Container
16.6.3.7.6.   H1408 Shipping and Storage                                                                                   -         -       -        -       -
              Container
16.6.3.7.7.   H1473 Shipping and Storage                                                                                   -         -       -        -       -
              Container
16.6.3.7.8.   LLC Containers/Kits                                                                                          -         -       -        -       -
16.6.3.7.9.   Group X Kits                                                                                                 -         -       -        -       -
16.7.         Load/Offload Truck/Tractor and
              Trailer
16.7.1.       Placing Containers                                                                                          2b         -       b        -       -
16.7.2.       Unit-Per-Load Restrictions                                                                                  A          -       B        -       -
16.7.3.       Securing Containers                                                                                         2b         -       b        -       -
16.7.4.       Forklift Use                                                                                                2b         -       b        -       -



                                                             38
                                                   2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                  Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                   A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                     3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                     Level          Level            Level
                                                   5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                  Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
16.7.5.       Upload/Download/Handling
              Shipping and Storage Containers
              and Bomb Hand Trucks to/from
              Trailers
16.7.5.1.     H1125A or H1671 Bomb                                                                                     2b         -       b        -       -
              Cradle/H1242 Caster Set
16.7.5.2.     H1224A Shipping and Storage                                                                               -         -       -        -       -
              Container
16.7.5.3.     H1347/H1347A Bomb Hand Truck                                                                              -         -       -        -       -
16.7.5.4.     H1388 Shipping and Storage                                                                                -         -       -        -       -
              Container
16.7.5.5.     H1408 Shipping and Storage                                                                                -         -       -        -       -
              Container
16.7.5.6.     H1473/H1545/H1639 Shipping and                                                                            -         -       -        -       -
              Storage Container
16.8.         Ground Support Equipment
16.8.1.       Inspect/Use
16.8.1.1.     Wheeled Prybars                                                                                          2b         -       b        -       -
16.8.1.2.     Pallet Jacks                                                                                              -         -       -        -       -
16.8.1.3.     Pallet Stacker                                                                                            -         -       -        -       -
16.8.1.4.     MB-1                                                                                                     2b         -       b        -       -
16.8.1.5.     CGU-1/B                                                                                                  2b         -       b        -       -
16.9.         25/40 Foot Trailers
              TR: AFJMAN 24-306;
              TOs 11N-45-51 Series, 11N-5202-2,
              13C2-1-1 and Work Cards
16.9.1.       Description                                                                                              A          -       A        -       -
16.9.2.       Perform Pre/Post Use Inspection                                                                          2b         -       a        -       -
16.9.3.       Use Trailer with:
16.9.3.1.     Bombs                                                                                                    2b         -       b        -       -
16.9.3.2.     Containers                                                                                               2b         -       b        -       -
16.10.        MHU-141/M or MHU-226 Trailer
              TR: TOs 11N-45-51, 11N-B1004-1,
              13C2-1-1, 33D3-11-36-6WC-2,
              35D3-2-27-1, 11N-H5045-2,
              11N-W80.83-2
16.10.1.      Description                                                                                              A          -       A        -       -
16.10.2.      Perform Pre/Post Use Inspection                                                                          2b         -       a        -       -
16.10.3.      Use with:
16.10.3.1.    Bombs                                                                                                     -         -       b        -       -
16.10.3.2.    Missiles                                                                                                 2b         -       b        -       -
16.10.3.3.    Warheads                                                                                                 2b         -       b        -       -
16.11.        MHU 196/204 Trailer
              TR: TO 11N-H5083-1
16.11.1.      Perform Pre/Post Use Inspection                                                                          2b         -       b        -       -
16.11.2.      Start-Up/Shutdown Procedures                                                                             2b         -       b        -       -
16.11.3.      Post Operations                                                                                          2b         -       b        -       -
16.11.4.      Emergency Shutdown                                                                                       2b         -       b        -       -
16.11.5.      Towing Procedures                                                                                        A          -       a        -       -
16.12.        Lift Vehicles
16.12.1.      Forklift
              TR: AFI 24-302; AFJMAN 24-306;
              AFOSHSTD 91-46;
              TOs 36M2-2 Series,
              11N-45-51 Series, 11N-B1004-1
16.12.1.1.    Description                                                                                              A          -       B        -       -
16.12.1.2.    Perform Pre/Post Use Inspection                                                                          2b         -       b        -       -
                                                          39
                                                      2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                     Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                     Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                      A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                        Level          Level            Level
                                                      5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                     Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
16.12.1.3.     Operate/Use                                                                                                2b         -       b        -       -
16.12.1.4.     Transfer/Transport Weapons
16.12.1.4.1.   Bolstered                                                                                                  2b         -       b        -       -
16.12.1.4.2.   Unbolstered                                                                                                2b         -       b        -       -
16.12.1.4.3.   Container                                                                                                  2b         -       b        -       -
16.12.2.       MHU-83 Series
               TR: TO 35D5-3-8-31
16.12.2.1.     Description                                                                                                 -         -       B        -       -
16.12.2.2.     Perform Pre/Post Use Inspection                                                                             -         -       b        -       -
16.12.2.3.     Operate/Use                                                                                                 -         -       b        -       -
16.12.3.       MHU-174/E
               TR: TO 11N-5053-2-4
16.12.3.1.     Description                                                                                                A          -       B        -       -
16.12.3.2.     Perform Pre/Post Use Inspection                                                                            2b         -       b        -       -
16.12.3.3.     Operate/Use                                                                                                2b         -       b        -       -
16.12.4.       MJ1 and MJ40/E
16.12.4.1.     Description                                                                                                 -         -       A        -       -
16.12.4.2.     Perform Pre/Post Use Inspection                                                                             -         -       b        -       -
16.12.4.3.     Operate/Use                                                                                                 -         -       b        -       -
16.12.5.       Transfer Weapons Using Lift
               Trucks
               TR: TOs 11N-B1004-1,
               11N-BXX Series, 11N-WXX Series,
               21M-AGM86-6-2
16.12.5.1.     Bolstered                                                                                                   -         -       b        -       -
16.12.5.2.     Unbolstered                                                                                                2b         -       b        -       -
16.12.5.3.     Warhead                                                                                                    2b         -       b        -       -
16.12.5.4.     Missile                                                                                                    2b         -       b        -       -
16.13.         Tow Vehicles
               TR: AFI 24-302; AFJMAN 24-306;
               TOs 36A10-Series, 36-12-Series
16.13.1.       Inspect/Use
16.13.1.1      Semi-Tractor                                                                                                -         -       -        -       -
16.13.1.2.     2.5 Ton Cargo                                                                                               -         -       -        -       -
16.13.1.3.     5 Ton Cargo                                                                                                 -         -       -        -       -
16.13.1.4.     Eagle Bobtail                                                                                               -         -       -        -       -
16.13.1.5.     Entwhistle                                                                                                  -         -       -        -       -
16.13.1.6.     NMC Wollard                                                                                                 -         -       -        -       -
16.14.         Inspect and Use Pintle Hooks on Tow                                                                        1b         -       -        -       -
               Vehicles/Trailers
               TR: TO 36-1-121
17             NUCLEAR BOMB
               MAINTENANCE
               TR: AFI 21-204, 21-205;
               TOs 11N-35-51, 11N-35-51A
17.1.          B61 Bomb (Mod 3, 4, 7, 10, 11)
               TR: TOs 11N-B61-0, 11N-B61A-0,
               11N-B61C-0, 11N-B61-1,
               11N-B61A-1, 11N-B61-3,
               11N-B61C-1
17.1.1.        Weapons Summary                                                                                             A         -       A        -       -
17.1.2.        Inspection
17.1.2.1.      Perform Verification Inspection                                                                            2b         -       b        -       -
17.1.2.2.      Perform Visual Monitor                                                                                     2b         -       b        -       -
17.1.2.3.      Inspect External Surfaces of Bomb                                                                          2b         -       b        -       -
17.1.2.4.      Inspect H1127 and Contents                                                                                 2b         -       b        -       -

                                                             40
                                                    2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                   Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                   Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                    A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                      3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                      Level          Level            Level
                                                    5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                   Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
17.1.2.5.     Inspect Bomb Handling Equipment                                                                           2b         -       b        -       -
17.1.2.6.     Inspect Identification Markings                                                                           2b         -       b        -       -
17.1.3.       Handling Procedures
17.1.3.1.     Immobilize H1125A/H1242/H1671                                                                             2b         -       b        -       -
17.1.3.2.     Lift with H1004                                                                                           2b         -       b        -       -
17.1.3.3.     Lift with H563                                                                                             -         -       b        -       -
17.1.3.4.     Remove/Install Bomb from/to                                                                               2b         -       b        -       -
              H1125A/H1671
17.1.3.5.     Stack/Unstack Bombs (mod 3, 4, 7,                                                                          -         -       b        -       -
              10)
17.1.3.6.     Remove/Install H1242                                                                                       -         -       -        -       -
17.1.3.7.     Transfer Bomb into/out of WMT                                                                              -         -       -        -       -
17.1.3.8.     Install/Remove Bomb in                                                                                    2b         -       b        -       -
              H1229/H1229A
17.1.4.       General Maintenance Procedures
              (mod 3, 4, 7, 10, 11)
17.1.4.1.     Prepare for Strike                                                                                        2b         -       b        -       -
17.1.4.2.     General Information                                                                                       A          -       B        -       -
17.1.4.3.     Fuze Settings                                                                                             2b         -       b        -       -
17.1.4.4.     Prepare for Storage and Shipment                                                                          2b         -       b        -       -
17.1.4.5.     Perform Disassembly/Reassembly                                                                            2b         -       b        -       -
              Procedures
17.1.4.6.     Replace Components in Preflight                                                                            -         -       -        -       -
              Subassembly
17.1.4.7.     Replace Components in Tail                                                                                 -         -       -        -       -
              Subassembly
17.1.4.8.     Remove/Install Parachute                                                                                   -         -       -        -       -
17.1.4.9.     Inspect Parachute                                                                                          -         -       -        -       -
17.1.5.       Limited Life Component Exchange
              (LLCE)
17.1.5.1.     Replace Components in CBSA                                                                                2b         -       b        -       -
17.1.5.2.     Perform LLCE (mod 3, 4, 7, 10, 11)                                                                        2b         -       b        -       -
17.1.5.3.     Perform Alt 900 Series                                                                                     -         -       -        -       -
17.1.6.       Emergency Procedures                                                                                       -         -       b        -       -
17.1.7.       Perform Command Disablement                                                                               2b         -       b        -       -
              Procedures
17.1.8.       Perform Non-Violent Disablement                                                                            -         -       b        -       -
17.1.9.       Perform Continuity Test                                                                                    -         -       -        -       -
17.1.10.      Unpackage and Package
              Components
17.1.10.1.    Gas Generator                                                                                              -         -       -        -       -
17.1.10.2.    Parachute                                                                                                  -         -       -        -       -
17.1.10.3.    Neutron Generators                                                                                         -         -       -        -       -
17.1.10.4.    Electronic Component Assembly                                                                              -         -       -        -       -
17.1.10.5     LLCE Components                                                                                            -         -       -        -       -
17.1.11.      Joint Test Assemblies
17.1.11.1.    Introduction                                                                                               -         -       -        -       -
17.1.11.2.    Perform Receipt Inspection                                                                                 -         -       -        -       -
17.1.11.3.    Prepare for Flight Test                                                                                    -         -       -        -       -
17.1.11.4.    Return JTA Material to DOE                                                                                 -         -       -        -       -
17.2.         B83 Bomb
              TR: TOs 11N-B83-0, 11N-B83-1,
              11N-B83-1A, 11N-B83-3C
17.2.1.       Weapons Summary                                                                                            A         -       A        -       -
17.2.2.       Inspection
17.2.2.1.     Perform Verification Inspection                                                                           2b         -       a        -       -
                                                           41
                                                     2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                    Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                    Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                     A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                       Level          Level            Level
                                                     5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                    Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
17.2.2.2.     Perform Visual Monitor                                                                                     2b         -       -        -       -
17.2.2.3.     Inspect External Surfaces of Bomb                                                                          2b         -       -        -       -
17.2.2.4.     Inspect H1097A and Contents                                                                                2b         -       b        -       -
17.2.2.5.     Inspect Bomb Handling Equipment                                                                            2b         -       -        -       -
17.2.2.6.     Inspect Identification Markings                                                                            2b         -       b        -       -
17.2.3.       Handling Procedures
17.2.3.1.     Immobilize H1347/H1347A                                                                                    2b         -       b        -       -
17.2.3.2.     Lift with H563                                                                                              -         -       -        -       -
17.2.3.3.     Lift with H1004                                                                                            2b         -       b        -       -
17.2.3.4.     Install/Remove H721                                                                                         -         -       -        -       -
17.2.3.5.     Install/Remove H1095/H1095A                                                                                 -         -       b        -       -
17.2.3.6.     Install/Remove H1097A                                                                                       -         -       -        -       -
17.2.3.7.     Remove/Install Bomb from/to                                                                                2b         -       -        -       -
              H1347/H1347A
17.2.3.8.     Stack/Unstack Bombs in                                                                                      -         -       -        -       -
              H1347/H1347A
17.2.4.       General Maintenance Procedures
17.2.4.1.     Prepare for Strike                                                                                         2b         -       b        -       -
17.2.4.2.     General                                                                                                    A          -       A        -       -
17.2.4.3.     Fuze Settings                                                                                              2b         -       b        -       -
17.2.4.4.     Prepare for Storage and Shipment                                                                           2b         -       b        -       -
17.2.4.5.     Remove/Install Aft Assembly                                                                                2b         -       b        -       -
17.2.4.6.     Emergency Procedures                                                                                       2b         -       b        -       -
17.2.4.7.     Perform Command Disablement                                                                                2b         -       b        -       -
              Procedures
17.2.4.8.     Perform Continuity Test                                                                                    2b         -       b        -       -
17.2.5.       Limited Life Component Exchange
              (LLCE)
              TR: TO 11N-B83-1A
17.2.5.1.     Perform LLCE                                                                                               2b         -       -        -       -
17.2.5.2.     Alt 921 Procedures                                                                                          -         -       -        -       -
17.2.6.       Unpackage and Package
              Components
17.2.6.1.     LLCE Components                                                                                             -         -       -        -       -
17.2.7.       Joint Test Assemblies
17.2.7.1.     Introduction                                                                                                -         -       -        -       -
17.2.7.2.     Perform Receiving Inspection                                                                                -         -       -        -       -
17.2.7.3.     Prepare for Flight Test                                                                                     -         -       -        -       -
17.2.7.4.     Return JTA Material to DOE                                                                                  -         -       -        -       -
18.           LAUNCHERS/PYLONS
              TR: AFI 91-111; TOs 11N-L5001-1,
              11N-L5001-2, 11N-L5006-1,
              11N-L5006-2, 16W6-33-1,
              21-AGM86-6-2,
18.1.         Common Strategic Rotary
              Launcher (CSRL)/Rotary
              Launcher Assembly (RLA)
18.1.1.       Introduction                                                                                               A          -       B        -       -
18.1.2.       Inspect/Maintain/Operate                                                                                   2b         -       b        -       -
18.1.3.       Inspect/Use Launcher Loader Adapter                                                                        2b         -       b        -       -
18.1.4.       Align Launcher/Frame Spline                                                                                 -         -       -        -       -
18.1.5.       Install/Remove Launcher to/from                                                                            2b         -       b        -       -
              Frame
18.1.6.       Manually Rotate Launcher                                                                                    -         -       a        -       -
18.1.7.       Configure Launcher                                                                                          -         -       -        -       -
18.1.8.       Prepare/Configure Ejector                                                                                   a         -       b        -       -

                                                            42
                                                      2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                     Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                     Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                      A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                        Level          Level            Level
                                                      5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                     Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
18.1.9.       Install/Remove Ejector(s) to/from                                                                           2b         -       b        -       -
              Launcher/Missile
18.1.10.      Install/Remove Cartridges                                                                                    a         -       b        -       -
18.1.11.      Perform Ejector Safe Position Test                                                                           -         -       -        -       -
18.2.         Mate/Demate Procedures
18.2.1.       Missiles                                                                                                    2b         -       b        -       -
18.2.2.       Bombs                                                                                                        -         -       b        -       -
18.2.3.       Perform Missile Safe Status Check                                                                           2b         -       b        -       -
18.2.4.       Perform Operational Readiness                                                                               b          -       b        -       -
              Inspection
18.3.         Perform Launcher Maintenance
18.3.1.       Perform ECS Bypass Test                                                                                      -         -       -        -       -
18.3.2.       Perform ECS Leakage test                                                                                     -         -       -        -       -
18.3.3.       Perform Periodic Inspection                                                                                  -         -       -        -       -
18.3.4.       Remove/Install/Repair Launcher                                                                               -         -       -        -       -
              Components
18.3.5.        Mate/Demate Interface Simulator                                                                             -         -       -        -       -
              (SMU-105) and Bomb Dummy Units
              (BDU(s))
18.4.         Pylons (SUU-67)
              TR: TO 16W6-33-1, 21AGM86-6-2
18.4.1.       Introduction                                                                                                 A         -       A        -       -
18.5.         Prepare Pylon for Use/Shipment
18.5.1.       Inspect/Use Pylon Loader Adapter                                                                            2b         -       b        -       -
18.5.2.       Install/Remove Pylon to/from Load                                                                           2b         -       b        -       -
              Frame
18.5.3.       Prepare/Configure Ejector                                                                                    a         -       b        -       -
18.5.4.       Install/Remove Ejector(s) to/from                                                                           2b         -       b        -       -
              Missile
18.5.5.       Install/Remove Cartridges                                                                                    a         -       b        -       -
18.6.         Perform Mate/Demate Procedures
18.6.1.       ALCM                                                                                                        2b         -       b        -       -
18.6.2        Perform Missile Safe Status Check                                                                           2b         -       -        -       -
18.7.         Perform Pylon Maintenance
18.7.1.       Perform ECS Bypass Valve Test                                                                                -         -       -        -       -
18.7.2.       Perform ECS Leakage test                                                                                     -         -       -        -       -
18.7.3.       Perform Periodic Inspection                                                                                  -         -       -        -       -
18.7.4.       Install/Remove Ejector(s) to/from                                                                            -         -       -        -       -
              Pylon
18.7.5.       Remove/Install/Repair Pylon                                                                                  -         -       -        -       -
              Components
18.7.6.       Perform Continuity Checks                                                                                    -         -       -        -       -
19            GUIDED MISSILE SYSTEMS
              TR: AFI 91-111;
              TOs 11N-W80.83-1, 11N-W80.83-2,
              21M-AGM86-2-1, 11N-W80-0,
              11N-W80-1
19.1.         W80 Warhead
              TR: TOs 11N-W80-1
19.1.1.       Weapons Summary                                                                                              A         -       A        -       -
19.1.2.       Inspection
19.1.2.1.     Perform Verification Inspection                                                                             2b         -       -        -       -
19.1.2.2.     Inspect External Surfaces of Warhead                                                                        2b         -       b        -       -
19.1.2.3.     Inspect H1388                                                                                               2b         -       b        -       -
19.1.2.4.     Inspect Identification Markings                                                                             2b         -       -        -       -
19.2.         Handling Procedures

                                                             43
                                                  2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                 Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                 Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                  A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                    3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                    Level          Level            Level
                                                  5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                 Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
19.2.1.       Lift with H563                                                                                          2b         -       -        -       -
19.2.2.       Remove/Install Warhead from/to                                                                          2b         -       b        -       -
              H1388
19.3.         General Maintenance Procedures
19.3.1.       General                                                                                                  a         -       b        -       -
19.3.2.       Prepare for Storage
19.3.2.1.     Perform Prep for Storage                                                                                 a         -       -        -       -
19.3.2.2.     Warhead Container                                                                                        a         -       -        -       -
19.3.2.3.     Extended Storage Chocks                                                                                  a         -       -        -       -
19.3.2.4.     Prepare for Shipment                                                                                     a         -       -        -       -
19.4.         Limited Life Component Exchange
              (LLCE)
19.4.1.       Introduction                                                                                            A          -       A        -       -
19.4.2.       Perform LLCE                                                                                            2b         -       b        -       -
19.4.3.       Perform Alt 900 Series                                                                                   -         -       -        -       -
19.4.4        Unpackage/Package LLCE                                                                                   -         -       -        -       -
              Components
19.5.         Emergency Procedures                                                                                    2b         -       b        -       -
19.6.         Joint Test Assemblies (JTA)
19.6.1.       Perform JTA Procedures                                                                                   -         -       -        -       -
19.6.2.       Perform Receipt Inspection                                                                               a         -       b        -       -
19.6.3.       Prepare for Flight Test                                                                                  -         -       -        -       -
19.6.4.       Return JTA Material to DOE                                                                               a         -       -        -       -
19.7.         Mate/Demate Warhead
19.7.1.       Description                                                                                             A          -       A        -       -
19.7.2.       Remove/Install Warhead from/to                                                                          2b         -       b        -       -
              ALCM Using MHU-170
19.7.3.       Remove/Install Warhead from/to                                                                          2b         -       -        -       -
              ALCM using GSU-283
19.7.4.       Remove/Install Warhead to/from                                                                           -         -       -        -       -
              MHU-141 Trailer or Workstand
19.8.         Launcher/Pylon/Adapter Handling
              Operation
              TR: TOs 11N-W80.83-2,
              11N-H5083-1, 11N-H5079-2
19.8.1.       Transport Pylon                                                                                          a         -       a        -       -
19.8.2.       Transport Launcher                                                                                       a         -       -        -       -
19.8.3.       Mate/Demate Adapter                                                                                     2b         -       b        -       -
19.8.4.       Inspect/Maintain/Test/Operate                                                                            a         -       b        -       -
              Suspended Loading and Checkout
              Frame
20.           EJECTOR RACKS
              TR: TOs 11N-L5000 Series,
              16W6-33-1, 11B29-3-25-2,
              11B29-3-63-1, 11B29-3-70-1,
              11A-15-7-7, 11A-18-7-7
20.1.         MAU-12/BRU-44
20.1.1.       Description                                                                                              A         -       B        -       -
21.           MINUTEMAN III REENTRY
              SYSTEM
21.1.         Reentry System
              Assembly/Disassembly
              TR: TOs 11N-RSXX-2-1,
              16W21-4-2
21.1.1.       Install/Remove Aft Shroud and V-                                                                         -         -       b        -       -
              Band Clamp

                                                         44
                                                      2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                     Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                     Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                      A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                        Level          Level            Level
                                                      5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                     Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
21.1.2.       Install/Remove RV                                                                                           2b         -       b        -       -
21.1.3.       Install/remove reentry system                                                                                -         -       b        -       -
              installation mounting
              hardware/reconfigure payload support
21.1.4.       Install/Remove Chaff Dispenser                                                                               -         -       b        -       -
              Installation Kit
21.1.5.       Install/Remove Chaff Dispenser                                                                               -         -       b        -       -
21.1.6.       Install/Remove Forward Shroud                                                                                -         -       b        -       -
              Components Rocket Motor and
              Initiator/W6C Cable
21.1.7.       Install/Remove AFT Shroud                                                                                    -         -       b        -       -
              Components W6B Cable/Access
              Doors/Panels/Inserts
21.2.         Reentry System Electrical
              Checkouts
              TR: TOs 11N-RVXX-2,
              11N-RSXX-2-1, 11N-RSXX-2-2,
              16W21-4-2, 11N-TRV5528-2,
              11N-TRV5099-2, 33D9-38-15-21,
              11N-RS12A-2-1, 11N-RS133-2-1,
              11N-RS21M-2-1 (Mod 3), 11N-
              RS21M-2-2 (Mod 5)
21.2.1.       Install/Remove Mod 5 Signal                                                                                  -         -       -        -       -
              Conditioner Monitor Group & Cable
              Kit
21.2.2.       Install/Remove Mod 5 Chaff                                                                                   -         -       -        -       -
              Instrumentation Kit
21.2.3.       Checkout Forward Shroud                                                                                      -         -       b        -       -
              Confidence Monitor Loop using
              ESCTS
21.2.4.       Test W6 Series Cables using RSTS                                                                             -         -       b        -       -
              and Shroud Shunt Cap using RSTS
21.2.5.       Test W5 Series Cables using RSTS                                                                             -         -       b        -       -
21.2.6.       Test W5PA Cable using SFTS                                                                                   -         -       -        -       -
21.2.7.       Test W4A Cable using RSTS                                                                                    -         -       b        -       -
21.2.8.       Test W4A Cable using SFTS                                                                                    -         -       b        -       -
21.2.9.       Test W4B Cable using RSTS                                                                                    -         -       b        -       -
21.2.10.      Test W7 Cables using RSTS                                                                                    -         -       a        -       -
21.2.11.      Checkout Arm/Disarm Device using                                                                             -         -       a        -       -
              RSTS
              TR: TO 11N-RSXX-2-1
21.2.12.      Checkout Chaff Sub-assembly using                                                                            -         -       a        -       -
              RSTS (MK12A)
21.2.13.      Checkout Targeting Function using                                                                            -         -       a        -       -
              RSTS (MK12A)
21.2.14.      Checkout Unique Signals using RSTS                                                                           -         -       a        -       -
              (MK12A)
21.2.15.      Checkout RS Safety Monitor Loop                                                                              -         -       a        -       -
              using ESCTS
21.2.16.      Checkout RS Confidence Monitor                                                                               -         -       a        -       -
              Loop using ESCTS
21.2.17.      Checkout RS Chaff Confidence                                                                                 -         -       a        -       -
              Monitor Loop using ESCTS
              (MK12A)
21.2.18.      Checkout of RS Prearm (D1/D2)                                                                                -         -       -        -       -
              using SFTS (MK21)
21.2.19.      Checkout of Final Fuze Set and                                                                               -         -       -        -       -
              Verify (Targeting) (MK21)
                                                             45
                                                      2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                     Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                     Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                      A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                        Level          Level            Level
                                                      5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                     Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
21.2.20.      Test Mod 5 Components with RSTS                                                                              -         -       -        -       -
              (W5R, MDM, Mod 5 Inst, Mod 5
              Final)
21.2.21.      Checkout Forward Shroud Rocket                                                                               -         -       a        -       -
              Motor Initiator
              TR: TO 11A15-1-167-1
21.2.22.      Checkout Thruster Bolt Pressure                                                                              -         -       a        -       -
              Cartridges
              TR: TO 11A15-1-167-1
21.2.23.      Checkout Ball Lock Pressure                                                                                  -         -       a        -       -
              Cartridges
              TR: TO 11A15-1-167-1
21.3.         RS Transfers/Transports
              TR: TO 11N-RSXX-2-1
21.3.1.       Transfer RS to/from Pallet and                                                                               -         -       b        -       -
              Assembly Stand
21.3.2.       Transfer RS to/from Munitions                                                                                -         -       b        -       -
              Facility Pit
21.3.3.       Transfer RS on Dolly to/from Lift                                                                            -         -       b        -       -
              Vehicle, and to/from Storage
21.3.4.       Transfer Forward Shroud on Pallet                                                                            -         -       b        -       -
21.3.5.       Transfer Payload Support to/from                                                                             -         -       b        -       -
              Assembly Stand
21.3.6.       Transfer Chaff Dispensers to/from                                                                            -         -       b        -       -
              Replacement Fixtures and
              Maintenance Stand
21.3.7.       Transport RS on Dolly using Forklift                                                                         -         -       b        -       -
21.4.         Unpack/Pack RS Components                                                                                    -         -       -        -       -
              TR: TOs 16W21-4-2, 11A15-1-167-1
21.5.         Perform RS Electrical Fault
              Isolation
              TR: TOs 11N-RSXX-2-1,
              33D9-38-15-21, 11N-TRV5099-2,
              11N-RS21M-2-1, 11N-RS21M-2-2,
              11N-TRV5528-2
21.5.1.       Perform Fault Isolation Procedures                                                                           -         -       b        -       -
              using ECSTS
21.5.2.       Perform Fault Isolation Procedures                                                                           -         -       a        -       -
              using RSTS
21.5.3.       Perform Fault Isolation Procedures                                                                           -         -       -        -       -
              using SFTS
21.6.         Reentry System Maintenance
              Procedures
              TR: TOs 16W21-4-1,
              11N-RSXX-2-1
21.6.1.       RS Components Inspection                                                                                    A         -       b        -        -
              TR: TOs 16W21-4-2, 11A15-1-167-1
21.6.2.       Repair/Replace Aft Shroud                                                                                    -         -       a        -       -
              Components
21.6.3.       Repair/Replace Forward Shroud                                                                                -         -       a        -       -
              Components
21.6.4.       Repair/Replace Payload Support                                                                               -         -       a        -       -
              Components
21.6.5.       Repair/Replace RS Installation Kit                                                                           -         -       a        -       -
              Components
21.6.6.       Repair/Replace V-Band Clamp                                                                                  -         -       A        -       -
              Components
22             MK-12A REENTRY VEHICLE
                                                             46
                                                       2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                      Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                      Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                       A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                         Level          Level            Level
                                                       5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                      Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
22.1.         W78 Warhead
              TR: TOs 11N-W78-1, 11N-35-51,
              11N-RV12A-2
22.1.1.       Introduction/Description                                                                                     A          -       -        -       -
22.1.2.       Unpackage/Package Warhead in                                                                                 2b         -       b        -       -
              H1224A
22.1.3.       Perform Receipt/Verification                                                                                 2b         -       b        -       -
              Inspection
22.1.4.       Prepare for Storage/Shipment                                                                                 2b         -       -        -       -
22.1.5.       Emergency Procedures                                                                                         A          -       b        -       -
22.1.6.       Perform Limited Life Component                                                                               2b         -       b        -       -
              Exchange
22.1.7.       Perform Alt 922                                                                                               -         -       -        -       -
22.1.8.       Inspect Surfaces                                                                                              -         -       -        -       -
22.2.         Transfer/Transport Warhead
              TR: TOs 11N-RV12A-2,
              11N-W78-1, 11N-45-51 Series
22.2.1.       Transfer Mid Section to/from RV                                                                              2b         -       b        -       -
              Assembly Stand/Center Section
              Maintenance Stand
22.2.2.       Transfer Warhead in H1224A to/from                                                                            -         -       b        -       -
              Lift Vehicle
22.3.         MK12A Reentry Vehicle
              TR: TOs 11N-RV12A-2,
              33D9-38-15-21
22.3.1.       Assembly/Disassembly                                                                                         2b         -       b        -       -
22.3.2.       Test Forward Section for Stray                                                                                a         -       b        -       -
              Voltage using ESCTS
22.3.3.       Install Reentry System Installation                                                                          2b         -       b        -       -
              Kit
22.4.         MK12A RV Transfers/Transports
              TR: TOs 11N-RV12A-2,
              11N-RS12A-2-1, 11A15-1-167-1
22.4.1.       Transfer RV with or without RS                                                                               2b         -       b        -       -
              Installation Kit to/from RV Assembly
              Stand
22.4.2.       Transfer RV with or without RS                                                                               2b         -       b        -       -
              Installation Kit to/from Ball Lock
              Installation Stand
22.4.3.       Transfer RV with or without RS                                                                                a         -       b        -       -
              Installation Kit to/from RV Storage
              Stand
22.4.4.       Transport RV on Pallet using Forklift                                                                         -         -       b        -       -
22.4.5.       Transfer RV on Storage Stand                                                                                  -         -       a        -       -
              to/from Forklift
22.4.6.       Transfer Forward Section to/from                                                                              a         -       a        -       -
              Shelf Hand Truck
22.5.         Inspect MK12A RV Components                                                                                  2b         -       b        -       -
22.6.         Test MK12A RV Components
              TR: TO 11N-RV12A-2
22.6.1.       Checkout Forward Section using                                                                                -         -       b        -       -
              Capacitance Meter
22.6.2.       Checkout Forward Section using                                                                                -         -       b        -       -
              RSTS
22.6.3.       Checkout Mid-Section W1B and                                                                                  -         -       b        -       -
              W2B/W1E and W2E Cables using
              ESCTS

                                                              47
                                                      2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                     Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                     Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                      A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                        Level          Level            Level
                                                      5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                     Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
22.6.4.       Checkout W3A Cable using RSTS                                                                                -         -       b        -       -
22.6.5.       Checkout Hot Gas Generator Initiator                                                                         -         -       b        -       -
              TR: TO 11A15-1-167-1
22.6.6.       Perform RV Final Assembly                                                                                    -         -       b        -       -
              Checkout using ESCTS
22.7.         MK12A RV Maintenance
              Procedures
              TR: TO 11N-RV12A-2
22.7.1.       Clean/Repair Forward Section                                                                                 -         -       b        -       -
              Surfaces
22.7.2.       Clean/Repair Mid-Section Surfaces                                                                            a         -       b        -       -
22.7.3.       Clean/Repair Aft Section Surfaces                                                                            -         -       b        -       -
22.7.4.       Install/Remove Breech Joint Set                                                                              a         -       a        -       -
              Screws
22.7.5.       Install/Remove Threaded Ring and                                                                            2b         -       b        -       -
              Protective Cover
22.7.6.       Replace Locking Screw Inserts                                                                                -         -       a        -       -
22.7.7.       Replace Decals                                                                                               -         -       a        -       -
22.7.8.       Replace W1B/W1E CABLES                                                                                       -         -       b        -       -
22.7.9.       Install/Remove W3A and Access                                                                                -         -       b        -       -
              Cover
22.7.10.       Install/Remove Aft Section                                                                                  -         -       b        -       -
              Components
22.8.         RV Electrical Fault Isolation
              TR: TO 11N-RV12A-2
22.8.1.       Perform Fault Isolation Procedures                                                                           -         -       b        -       -
              using the ESCTS
22.8.2.       Perform Fault Isolation Procedures                                                                           -         -       b        -       -
              using the RSTS
22.8.3.       Perform Fault Isolation Procedures                                                                           -         -       -        -       -
              using the SFTS
22.9.         Unpackage/Package RV
              Components
              TR: TOs 11N-RV12A-2,
              11A15-1-167-1
22.9.1.       Unpack/Pack/Inspect                                                                                          -         -       -        -       -
22.9.2.       Install/Remove Neutron Generators                                                                            -         -       -        -       -
              and/or JTA6 Aft Section Sensor Kit
22.9.3.       Assemble/Disassemble                                                                                         -         -       -        -       -
22.10.        RV Mod 5T
              TR: TO 11N-RS12A-2-2
22.10.1.      Unpack/Pack/Inspect                                                                                          -         -       -        -       -
22.10.2.      Install/Remove Aft Section Ballast                                                                           -         -       -        -       -
              Kit
22.10.3.      Assemble/Disassemble                                                                                         -         -       -        -       -
22.11.        RV Mod 6
              TR: TO 11N-RS12A-2-2
22.11.1.      Unpack/Pack/Inspect                                                                                          -         -       -        -       -
22.11.2.      Unpack/Pack/Inspect Forward & Aft                                                                            -         -       -        -       -
              Section
22.11.3.      Assemble/Disassemble                                                                                         -         -       -        -       -
23.           MK-21 REENTRY VEHICLE
23.1.         W87 Warhead
              TR: TOs 11N-W87-1, 11N-35-51,
              11N-RV21-2
23.1.1.       Introduction/Description                                                                                     A         -       -        -       -


                                                             48
                                                       2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                      Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                      Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                       A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                         Level          Level            Level
                                                       5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                      Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
23.1.2.       Unpackage/Package Warhead in                                                                                 2b         -       b        -       -
              H1473/H1639
23.1.3.       Perform Receipt/Verification                                                                                 2b         -       b        -       -
              Inspection
23.1.4.       Prepare for Storage/Shipment                                                                                 2b         -       b        -       -
23.1.5.       Emergency Procedures                                                                                         A          -       b        -       -
23.1.6.       Perform Limited Life Component                                                                              2b/b        -       -        -       -
              Exchange
23.1.7.       Perform Alt 928                                                                                               -         -       -        -       -
23.1.8.       Inspect Surfaces                                                                                              -         -       -        -       -
23.2.         Transfer/Transport Warhead
              TR: TOs 11N-W87-1,
              11N-45-51 Series, 11N-RV21-2
23.2.1.       Transfer Warhead RV to/from RV                                                                               2b         -       a        -       -
              Assembly Stand/Pallet
23.2.2.       Transfer Warhead in H1473 to/from                                                                             -         -       -        -       -
              Lift Vehicle
23.3.         Assemble/Disassemble MK21
              Reentry Vehicle
              TR: TO 11N-RV21-2
23.3.1.       Assembly/Disassembly                                                                                        2b/b        -       b        -       -
23.3.2.       Install/Remove Reentry System                                                                                -          -       -        -       -
              Installation Kit
23.3.3.       Install/Remove W4A Cable                                                                                    2b/b        -       b        -       -
              Assembly
23.4.         MK21 RV Transfers/Transports
              TR: TO 11NRV21-2
23.4.1.       Transfer/Transport RV to/from RV                                                                              -         -       -        -       -
              Assembly Stand/Pallet
23.4.2.       Transfer/Transport RV to/from RS                                                                              -         -       -        -       -
              Installation Kit to/from RV Assembly
              Stand
23.4.3.       Transfer RV with or without RS                                                                                -         -       -        -       -
              Installation Kit to/from Ball Lock
              Installation Stand
23.4.4.       Transfer RV with or without RS                                                                                -         -       -        -       -
              Installation Kit to/from RV Storage
              Stand (Pallet)
23.4.5.       Transfer RV on RV Storage Stand                                                                               -         -       -        -       -
              (Pallet) to/from Forklift
23.4.6.       Transport RV on Pallet using Forklift                                                                         -         -       -        -       -
23.5.         Inspect MK21 RV Components                                                                                   2b         -       B        -       -
              TR: TOs 11N-RV21-2,
              11A15-1-167-1
23.6.         Test MK21 RV Components
              TR: TOs 11N-RV21-2,
              11N-TRV5080-8
23.6.1.       Checkout Arming and Fuzing                                                                                    -         -       -        -       -
              Assembly
23.6.2.       Checkout RV with/without W4AIFD                                                                               -         -       -        -       -
              Cable Installed
23.7.         RV Mod 5F
              TR: TOs 11N-RV21-2,
              11N-RS21M-2-2
23.7.1.       Unpack/Pack/Inspect                                                                                           -         -       -        -       -
23.7.2.       Assemble/Disassemble                                                                                          -         -       -        -       -


                                                              49
                                                    2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                   Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                   Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                    A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                      3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                      Level          Level            Level
                                                    5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                   Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
23.8.         RV Mod 5T
              TR: TO 11N-RS21M-2-2
23.8.1.       Unpack/Pack/Inspect                                                                                        -         -       -        -       -
23.8.2.       Assemble/Disassemble                                                                                       -         -       -        -       -
23.9.         RV Mod 6
              TR: TO 11N-RS21M-2-2
23.9.1.       Unpack/Pack/Inspect                                                                                        -         -       -        -       -
23.9.2.       Assemble/Disassemble                                                                                       -         -       -        -       -
24.           WEAPON STORAGE AND
              SECURITY SYSTEM
              TR: TOs 11N-50-1003,
              11N-50-1008
24.1.         Vault Control Group
              TR: TO 11N-50-1004
24.1.1        Safety Summary                                                                                             A         -       -        A       -
24.1.2.       Description                                                                                                A         -       B        A       -
24.1.3.       Principles of Operation
24.1.3.1.     Panel Indicators and Controls                                                                              A         -       B        A       -
24.1.3.2.     Other Indicators and Controls                                                                              A         -       B        A       -
24.1.3.3.     Operating Details                                                                                          A         -       B        A       -
24.1.3.4.     Associated Equipment and Materials                                                                         A         -       B        A       -
24.1.4.       Inspection and Tests
24.1.4.1.     Preventative Maintenance                                                                                   -         -       -        -       -
24.1.4.2.     System Level Functional Test                                                                               -         -       -        -       -
              Procedures
24.1.4.3.     Physical Inspection Procedures                                                                             -         -       -        -       -
24.1.4.4.     Two-Person Component Inspection                                                                            -         -       -        -       -
24.1.5.       Operation
24.1.5.1.     Use Code Module Procedures                                                                                 -         -       a       2b       b
              TR: USAFEI 33-201
24.1.5.2.     Primary System Operation                                                                                   -         -       -       2b       -
24.1.5.3.     Alternate System Operation                                                                                 -         -       -       A        -
24.1.5.4.     Weapons Removal and Installation                                                                           -         -       -       2b       -
24.1.5.5.     Periodic (Annual) Rekey/Recode and                                                                         -         -       -       A        -
              Unscheduled Rekey/Recode of
              Components
24.1.6.       Vault Control Group Maintenance
24.1.6.1.     Fault Isolation Procedures                                                                                 -         -       -        -       -
24.1.6.2.     General Cleaning and Finishing                                                                             -         -       -        -       -
24.1.6.3.     Component Replacement Procedures                                                                           -         -       -        -       -
24.1.6.4.     Special Maintenance Procedures                                                                             -         -       -        -       -
24.1.6.5      Circuit Diagrams                                                                                           -         -       -        -       -
24.1.7.       Inspect/Operate/Maintain Toxic Air                                                                         -         -       A        -       -
              Test Set
              TR: TO 11H5 Series; Local
              Procedures
24.2.         Code-Transfer Group (CTG)
              TR: TO 11N-50-1005
24.2.1.       Safety Summary                                                                                             -         -       -        A       -
24.2.2.       Description and Capabilities of                                                                            -         -       -        A       -
              Components
24.2.3.       CTG Principles of Operation
24.2.3.1.     Identification and Time Delay                                                                              -         -       B        B       -
              (ID/TD) Operation
24.2.3.2.     Recode Operations                                                                                          -         -       B        B       -
24.2.3.3.     Rekey Operations                                                                                           -         -       B        B       -

                                                           50
                                                    2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                   Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                   Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                    A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                      3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                      Level          Level            Level
                                                    5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                   Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
24.2.4.       Inspections and Tests
24.2.4.1.     Physical Inspection of Components                                                                          -         -       -       2b       -
24.2.4.2.     Functional Tests                                                                                           -         -       -       2b       -
24.2.5.       Operating Procedures
24.2.5.1.     Code Transfer Unit                                                                                         -         -       -       2b       -
24.2.5.2.     Unlock Operation                                                                                           -         -       -       2b       -
24.2.5.3.     ID/TD Operation                                                                                            -         -       -       A        -
24.2.5.4.     Recode Operation                                                                                           -         -       -       A        -
24.2.5.5.     Rekey Operation                                                                                            -         -       -       A        -
24.2.6.       Maintenance
24.2.6.1.     Fault Isolation Procedures                                                                                 -         -       -        -       -
24.2.6.2.     Component Replacement                                                                                      -         -       -        -       -
24.2.6.3.     General Cleaning and Refurbishment                                                                         -         -       -        -       -
24.2.7.       Prepare for Storage and Shipment                                                                           -         -       -        -       -
24.3.         Deactivation/Reactivation of WS3
              TR: TO 11N-50-1008
24.3.1.       Description                                                                                                -         -       -        -       -
24.3.2.       Deactivate System
24.3.2.1.     Deactivation                                                                                               -         -       -        -       -
24.3.2.2.     Semi-Annual Periodic Inspection                                                                            -         -       -        -       -
24.3.2.3.     Biennial Periodic Inspection                                                                               -         -       -        -       -
24.3.3.       Reactivation                                                                                               -         -       -        -       -
25             WEAPONS MAINTENANCE
              TRUCK
              TR: AFOSH 91-46; TO 11N50-
              1007
25.1.         Description                                                                                                A         -       B       B        -
25.2.         Preparation for Use                                                                                        -         -       -       2b       -
25.3.         Inspect/Operate                                                                                            -         -       -       2b       -
25.4.         WMT Hoist
25.4.1.       Operate                                                                                                    -         -       -        b       -
25.4.2.       Daily Inspection                                                                                           -         -       -        b       -
25.4.3.       Monthly Inspection                                                                                         -         -       -        -       -
25.4.4.       Semi-Annual Inspection                                                                                     -         -       -        -       -
25.4.5.       Annual Inspection                                                                                          -         -       -        -       -
25.4.6.       Biennial Inspection                                                                                        -         -       -        -       -
25.5.         WMT Container
25.5.1.       Perform Inspections                                                                                        -         -       -        b       -
25.5.2.       Troubleshoot and Repair Electrical                                                                         -         -       -        -       -
              Faults
25.5.3.       Lightning Protection System                                                                                -         -       -        -       -
              Inspection/Test/Repair
26.           TRANSITIONAL WEAPONS
              TR: TOs 11N-35-51, 11N-35-51A
26.1.         W84 Warhead
              TR: TO 11N-W84-1
26.1.1.       Description                                                                                                -         -       -        -       -
26.1.2.       Package/Unpackage                                                                                          -         -       -        -       -
26.1.3.       Perform Inspection Following                                                                               -         -       -        -       -
              Shipment/Verification Inspection
26.1.4.       Prepare for Storage and Shipment                                                                           -         -       -        -       -
26.1.5.       Emergency Procedures                                                                                       -         -       -        -       -




                                                           51
                                                   2.                  3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Core                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                  Tasks                                                             Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                   A        B          C          D           E           A          B           C
                                                                                                                     3 Skill       5 Skill          7 Skill
                                                                                                                     Level          Level            Level
                                                   5/7         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier               (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                  Level        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    Course CDC       Course CDC
27.           NON-NUCLEAR GENERAL
              HANDLING/MAINTENANCE
              PROCEDURES
              TR: AFI 91-203; AFOSHSTD
              91-500; and TO 43D Series
27.1.         Handling/Transfer/Transport Empty                                                                         -         -       -        -       -
              Handling Equipment Containers
27.2.         Handling/Transfer/Transport                                                                               -         -       -        -       -
              Component Shipping/Storage Boxes
27.3.         Handling/Transfer/Transports and                                                                          -         -       -        -       -
              Maintenance of RV/RS/BDU/ Trainer
              Shapes




                                                          52
