DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                  CFETP 4A1X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                                     Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                    1 October 2013

                                    AFSC 4A1X1
                           Medical Materiel Specialty




                       CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
                         AND TRAINING PLAN
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication
                        CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                         MEDICAL MATERIEL SPECIALTY AFSC 4A1X1

                                           Table of Contents

PART I

Preface                                                            4

Abbreviations/Acronym/Terms                                        5

Section A. General Information                                     10

1. Purpose of CFETP                                                10

2. Use of CFETP                                                    10

3. Coordination and Approval of CFETP                              11

4. Waiving Specialty Qualification Requirements                    11

5. AFTR                                                            12

Section B. Career Progression and Information                      13

1. Specialty Description                                           13

2. Skill/Career Progression                                        14
Apprentice (3-skill level)
Journeyman (5-skill level)
Craftsman (7-skill level)
Superintendent (9-skill level)
Chief Enlisted Manager (00-skill level)

3. Training Decisions                                              15

4. Community College of the Air Force                              16
Figure 4.1 – 4A1X1 Degree Requirements                             17

5. Career Field Path                                               18
Figure 5.1, Career Progression Pyramid                             18
Figure 5.2, 4A1X1 Career Path                                      19
Figure 5.3, Enlisted Education and Training Path                   20

Section C. Skill Level Training Requirements                       21

1. Purpose                                                         21


                                                   2
2. Specialty Qualification                                                            21
Apprentice Level Training (3-skill level)
Journeyman Level Training (5-skill level)
Craftsman Level Training (7-skill level)
Superintendent Level Training (9-skill level)

Section D. Resource Constraints                                                       24

1. Purpose                                                                            24
Apprentice Level Training
Journeyman Level Training
Craftsman Level Training

2. Reporting Qualification Training Constraints                                       24
Figure 2.1 Sample, Memorandum for Reporting Qualification Training Constraint         25

Section E. Transitional Training Guide                                                25


PART II

Section A, Specialty Training Standard                                                26

Section B, Course Objective List                                                      42

Section C, Support Material                                                           43

Section D, Training Course Index                                                      46

Section E, MAJCOM Unique Requirement                                                  48

Section F, Documentation of Training                                                  49
Figure 3.1. Sample, AF Form 797 Documentation                                         50
Figure 3.2. Sample, Recurring Mandatory Training Documentation (AF Form 1098)         51
Figure 3.3. Sample, Qualification Training Progress (QTP) Record                      51
Figure 3.4. Sample, Orientation Documentation (AF Form 623A)                          52
Figure 3.5. Sample, Initial Upgrade Training Brief (AF Form 623A)                     53
Figure 3.6. Sample, Upgrade Documentation (AF Form 623A)                              54
Figure 3.7. Sample, Job Description Review (AF Form 623A)                             55

________________________________________________________________________________
OPR: AF/SG1E
Certified by: CMSgt Cynthia Y. Scott (AFMOA/SGAL)
Supersedes: CFETP4A1X1, 1 April 2004; CFETP4A1X1C1, 1 April 2005; CFETP4A1X1C2, 10 July 2006
Pages: 55



                                                  3
Part I

Preface

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and training
document that identifies life-cycle education and training requirements, training support resources, and core task
requirements for this specialty. The CFETP will provide personnel a clear career path to success and will instill
rigor in all aspects of career field training. NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to
support duty-position qualification training. To read, review, or print a copy of the current CFETP, go to
http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts. Supervisors plan, manage, and control training within the specialty using
both parts of the plan.

2.1. Part I. Provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty.

2.1.1. Section A. Explains the purpose for and how everyone will use the plan.

2.1.2. Section B. Identifies career field progression, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career
field path.

2.1.3. Section C. Associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, experience,
training, and other).

2.1.4. Section D. Indicates resource/training constraints such as funds, manpower, equipment, facilities, etc.

2.1.5. Section E. Identifies transition training guide requirements for SSgt through MSgt.

2.2. Part II. At the unit level, supervisors and trainers use Part II to identify, plan and conduct training
commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.

2.2.1. Section A. Identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and includes duties, tasks, training
references (TRs) to support training, Air Education and Training Command (AETC) conducted training,
wartime course, core task, and correspondence course requirements.

2.2.2. Section B. Contains the course objective list (COL) and training standards supervisors will use to
determine if Airmen satisfied training requirements.

2.2.3. Section C. Identifies available support materials that have been developed and are mandatory for use to
support on-the-job training (OJT).

2.2.4. Section D. Contains a training course index supervisors can use to determine resources available to
support training. Included are both mandatory and optional courses.

2.2.5. Section E. Identifies major command (MAJCOM) unique training requirements supervisors can use to
determine additional training required for the associated qualification needs. At unit level, supervisors and
trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.

2.2.6. Section F. Specific to medical Air Force Specialty Codes (AFSC) and provides guidance on required
documentation in the enlisted training and competency folder. At the unit level, supervisors and trainers use
Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.
                                                        4
3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive effective and efficient
training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan enables us to train today’s work force for tomorrow’s
jobs.

ABBREVIATIONS/ACRONYMS/TERMS

Advanced Training (AT). Formal courses which provide individuals qualified in one or more positions of their
Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance their expertise in the career field.
Training is reserved for selected career airmen at the advanced level of the AFS.

Air Education and Training Command (AETC). Conducts basic training for all Air Force enlisted personnel,
produces skilled flying and ground personnel, and trains many of the world’s military forces. Along with basic
military, technical, and flying training, AETC provides other types of training such as aircrew transitional,
special, advanced, lateral, and survival training.

Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD).

Air Force Career Development Academy (AFCDA). This organization located at Gunter Annex, Maxwell
AFB, AL, develops, maintains, and distributes Air Force specific training such as Career Development Courses
and Computer Based Training programs. AFCDA’s website can be located at http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/.

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). Responsible for the development, implementation, and
maintenance of the CFETP, as well as others duties within the AFS.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard/Command Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS/CJQS). A
comprehensive task list which describes a particular job type or duty position. Supervisors use them to
document task qualifications. The tasks on AFJQS/CJQS are common to all persons serving in the described
duty position.

Air Force Joint Manual (AFJMAN).

Air Force Medical Support Agency (AFMSA). The Air Staff agency that acts as a liaison between
Headquarters Air Force Agencies and base level activities. It is responsible for reviewing and establishing
policy in support of the Surgeon General and has offices in various locations depending upon the specialty
support provided. For example, the Air Force Medical Logistics Office is a division of AFMSA.

Air Force Occupational Measurement Squadron (AFOMS). Located at Randolph AFB, TX, the AFOMS
provides occupational programs to optimize United States Air Force personnel and training decisions. The
website for AFOMS is located at https://www.omsq.af.mil.

Air Force Policy Document (AFPD).

Air Reserve Component (ARC). Term used to reference both the Air National Guard and Air Force Reserves
together.

Air Force Specialty (AFS). A group of positions requiring common qualifications. Each AFS has a title and
associated Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC).

Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC). An alpha/numeric identification code assigned to identify like jobs.

Air Force Techniques, Tactics, and Procedures (AFTTP).
                                                  5
Association for Healthcare Resource and Materials Management (AHRMM). A civilian organization
which military members may join and obtain professional certification to enhance their career and community
value.

Career Development Course (CDC).

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive, multipurpose document
encapsulating the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field. It outlines a logical growth plan
that includes training resources and is designed to make career field training identifiable, to eliminate
duplication, and to ensure this training is budget appropriate.

Certification. A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required standards.

Certification Official. A person designated by the commander and appropriately trained to certify tasks to
determine an individual’s ability to perform a task to required standards.

Certified Materials and Resource Professional (CMRP).

Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM).

Continuation Training. Additional training exceeding upgrade training requirements with emphasis on present
or future duty assignments.

Core Task. A task AFCFMs identify as a minimum qualification requirement within an Air Force specialty or
duty position. Core tasks may be specified for a particular skill level, duty position, or in general across the
AFS. This core knowledge must be maintained through local or recurring formal training. Guidance for using
the core tasks can be found in the applicable CFETP narrative.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication, derived from initial/advanced skills course training standards,
identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective standards provided to achieve a 3, 5, and 7-
skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to assist in conducting graduate evaluations in
accordance with (IAW) AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program.

Course Training Standard (CTS). A training standard that identifies the training members will receive in a
specific course.

Defense Logistics Agency Regulation (DLAR).

Defense Medical Logistics Standard Support (DMLSS).

Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA).

Enlisted Promotion References and Requirements Catalog (EPRRC).

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (on-the-
job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Enlisted Training and Competency Folder (ETCF).

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video, or other
necessary means to supplement training.
                                                    6
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR).

Field Evaluations Questionnaire (FEQ). A FEQ is sent from the technical training school to the immediate
supervisors of recent 3-skill level course graduates. Supervisors use this survey to provide feedback on the
effectiveness of the technical training course in meeting established training requirements.

Individual Mobilization Augmentee (IMA).

Initial Skills Training. A formal resident course which results in award of a 3-skill level AFSC.

The Joint Commission (TJC). Evaluates and accredits nearly 19,000 health care organizations and programs
in the United States. An independent, not-for-profit organization, it has developed state-of-the-art,
professionally based standards and evaluated the compliance of health care organizations against these
benchmarks. Their mission is to continuously improve the safety and quality of care provided to the public
through the provision of health care accreditation and related services that support performance improvement in
health care organizations. The website for JC is located athttp://www.jointcommission.org.

Joint Medical Logistics Functional Development Center (JMLFDC). A tri-service organization responsible
for the development of the DMLSS computer system. JMLFDC also provides several DMLSS step-by-steps at
the following website: https://jml149.dmlss.detrick.army.mil/resourcecenter/.

Joint Publication (JP).

MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM). A person appointed as the senior representative for an AFS within a
specific MAJCOM. Responsibilities include working with the AFCFM to develop, implement, and maintain the
CFETP.

Occupational Survey Report (OSR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational survey of tasks
performed within a particular AFS.

On-the -Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify personnel in both
upgrade (skill level award) and job qualification (duty position certification) training.

Optimal Training. The ideal combination of training, settings resulting in the highest levels of proficiency on
specified performance requirements within the minimum time possible.

Plan of Instruction (POI). A course control document used for course planning, organization, operation, and
validation.

Position Qualification Training. Training designed to qualify airmen in a specific position, which occurs after
upgrade training

Proficiency Training. Additional training, either in-residence, exportable advanced training courses, or on-the-
job training provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required for
upgrade.

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an individual in a
specific duty position. This portion of the dual channel on-the-job training program occurs both during and after
the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills required to do the job.

                                                       7
Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional package designed for use at the unit to qualify, or aid
qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of equipment. It may be printed, computer-based, or
in other audiovisual media.

Readiness Skills Verification Program (RSVP). Identifies all skill requirements for contingency operations
that are above and beyond the normal core tasks outlined in the CFETP. The web-based software program is
used by the Air Force Medical Service as a management tool to ensure contingency skills are sustained.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and equipment that
preclude desired training from being delivered.

Skills Training. A formal course that awards a skill level.

Special Experience Identifier (SEI). A three-number code which identifies special experience and training not
otherwise identified in the personnel data system (i.e. AFSC, etc.).

Specialty Training. A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (on-the-job) to qualify
and upgrade airmen in the award of a skill level.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication which describes skills and knowledge that an
airman in a particular Air Force specialty needs on the job. It further serves as a contract between the Air
Education and Training Command and the user to show the overall training requirements for and AFSC that the
formal schools teach.

Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, established and defined by authority,
custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring quantities or qualities,
establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results. A fixed quantity or quality.

Sustainment Training. Recurring training necessary for fully qualified individuals to maintain the skills
necessary to perform all duties required by their job in peacetime and wartime.

Task Certifier. See Certification Official.

Task Module (TM). A group of tasks performed within an Air Force specialty that are performed together and
require common knowledge, skills, and abilities. TMs are identified by an identification code and a statement.

Total Force. All collective Air Force components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian elements) of the United
States Air Force (see Mirror Force).

Trainer. A trained and qualified person who teaches airmen to perform specific tasks through OJT. Also
relates to the equipment that the trainer uses to teach airmen specified tasks.

Training Capacity. The capability of training sets to provide training on specified requirements, based on the
availability of resources.

Training References (TR). Instructions, manuals, pamphlets, and other documents used as sources to provide
guidance and training.

Training Requirements Analysis. A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFS to be included in the
training decision process.

                                                       8
Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-the-job, field
training, mobile training team, self-study etc.).

Training Standard. Trainees are trained and evaluated to the go/no go level. Go means the
individual can perform the task without assistance and meet requirements for accuracy, timeliness, and
correct use of procedures. Supervisors and superintendents will manage this process.

Upgrade Training (UGT). Mandatory courses, task qualification, and correspondence course requirements for
award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, and 9-skill levels.

Utilization and Training Pattern. A depiction of the training provided to and the jobs performed by personnel
throughout their tenure within a career field or Air Force specialty. There are two types of patterns: 1) current
pattern, which is based on the training provided to incumbents and the jobs to which they have been and are
assigned; and 2) alternate pattern, which considers proposed changes in manpower, personnel, and training
policies.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum of AFSC specific MFM, Subject Matter Experts, and
AETC training personnel that determines career ladder training requirements.

Wartime Course. A structured course for non-prior service personnel to train only essential tasks in times of
national emergency. The goal is to produce the greatest number of graduates in the least amount of time. The
course content is based on wartime tasks identified in the STS.




                                                        9
Section A - General Information

1. Purpose. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) provides information necessary for the
Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM), MFMs, commanders, training managers, supervisors, trainers, and
the applicable Air Education and Training Command (AETC) training wing to plan, develop, manage, and
conduct an effective career field education and training program. This plan outlines training individuals must
receive to develop and progress throughout their career. It also identifies initial skills, upgrade, qualification,
advanced proficiency, sustainment, and continuing education and training. Initial skills training is the Air Force
Specialty (AFS) specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon retraining into a
specialty. For our career field, this training is provided by AETC, 382d Training Squadron (TRS) at Ft Sam
Houston, TX. Upon successful completion of the training, individuals are awarded their 3-skill level Air Force
Specialty Code (AFSC).

1.1. Upgrade Training (UGT) identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, and
correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 5 and 7-skill levels. Qualification Training
(QT) is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an airman in a specific duty position.
This training program occurs both during and after the UGT process. It is designed to provide the performance
skills and knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training is formal AFS training used for selected airmen.
Proficiency training is additional training, either in-residence, exportable advanced training courses, or On-the-
Job Training (OJT), provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required
for upgrade. The CFETP also serves the following purposes:

1.1.1. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and recommends
education/training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.

1.1.2. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and the training delivery
method.

1.1.3. Identifies major resource constraints which may impact full implementation of the career field training
process.

1.1.4. Identifies the training elements required for Readiness Skills Verification (RSV) to ensure individuals are
fully trained to meet contingency missions.

2. Use. MFMs and supervisors at all levels will use the plan to ensure comprehensive and cohesive training
programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop or revise formal resident, non-resident, field, and exportable training
based on requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of the CFETP. They will also work
with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified
training.

2.2. Major Command Functional Managers (MFMs) will ensure their training programs complement the
CFETP mandatory initial, upgrade qualification, and proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, contract
training, or exportable courses can satisfy identified requirements. Any MAJCOM-developed training used to
support this AFSC must be included in this plan.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan. The list of
courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.


                                                          10
3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority for this CFETP. MAJCOM
representatives and AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on career field training requirements.
The AETC training manager for this specialty will initiate an annual review of this document by AETC and
MFMs to ensure currency and accuracy. Using the list of courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate
training.

4. Waiving Specialty Qualification Requirements. Qualification requirements for this specialty are published
in the AFECD and this CEFTP. These requirements may be for entry, award or retention of this specialty and
respective skill levels. Unique circumstances may warrant waiving certain requisites. Consideration for a
waiver should not become the normal practice. However, a waiver can save training resources without affecting
career field progression or mission accomplishment when as individual possesses qualifications equivalent to
the established requirements.

4.1. Evaluating waiver requests. Supervisors, managers, and leaders must compare each waiver request
individually and against predetermined standards in order to maintain integrity of the career field. Scrutinize the
individual’s task knowledge, performance, ability to learn and transfer knowledge to performance, and his/her
future within the specialty in relation to peers. Waiver requests must consider the following factors:

4.1.1. Education. Has the individual previously completed an equivalent education or certification program (or
equivalency test)? Has the individual performed duty in an exceptional manner over an extended period of time
in the actual or equivalent AFS or civilian occupation?

4.1.2. Training. Has the individual completed an equivalent technical training course or civilian vocational
training course, certification program (or equivalent test)?

4.1.3. Knowledge. Does the individual possess the career knowledge equivalent to current requirements?

4.1.4. Experience. Supporting documentation must include proof of experience, such as performance reports,
training records, state or federal operating licenses, certificates of affiliation, and etc.

4.1.5. Other. Does the individual possess the physical ability, aptitude, or qualifications that are equivalent to,
or commensurate with, the established requirement?

4.2. Responsibilities.

4.2.1. Individual. Does the individual acknowledge possessing the prescribed training requirements? Trainees
must understand their education and training requirements, accept responsibility for training, and document task
qualification.

4.2.2. Supervisor. Did the commander and supervisor fulfill their obligations to the trainee and the training
program? Level of support or involvement is not, by itself, justification for approving waivers – it may indicate
problems in training equity or other areas.

4.2.3. Training System Equity. This area relates to circumstances beyond a trainee's control such as the
following. Were training or testing conditions abnormal? Did the training or testing system provide the best
opportunity for successful completion of training requirements? Was the training or testing system flexible
enough to allow for unexpected situations or conditions? Did those responsible for the training or testing
program fulfill their obligations effectively? Depending on the facts, this area may warrant options other than
approving a waiver.


                                                         11
4.3. Processing Waiver Requests. Process waiver requests according to AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military
Personnel (Officer and Enlisted) and AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program.

5. AFTR. The Air Force Training Record (AFTR) serves as the single, automated repository for all medical
enlisted specialty training. Consult the most current AFTR training message for detailed instructions regarding
automated training documentation requirements.

5.1. Documentation. Use the automated AFTR to document all technician qualifications. NOTE: An Air Force
Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS) may be used in lieu of Part II of the CFETP only upon approval of the
AFCFM. The AFCFM may supplement these minimum documentation procedures as needed or deemed
necessary for the career field.

5.2. Transcribing a new or revised CFETP. The CFM will provide transcription instructions to the AFTR
program manager. This process will be seamless to the field user as all existing trainee records will be auto-
transcribed.

5.3. Decertification and Recertification. When an Airman is found to be unqualified on a task previously
certified for his/her position, the supervisor deletes the previous AFTR documented certification. Appropriate
remarks are entered on the AF Form 623A, On-The-Job Training Record Continuation Sheet, identifying the
reason for decertification. Upon subsequent recertification, document AFTR for any other training qualification.




                                                       12
Section B - Career Progression and Information

1. Specialty Description

1.1. Specialty Summary. Provide medical materiel and services support to using activities with an economical
investment in inventory. Maintain all assigned war reserve materiel (WRM) programs. Establish and effective
medical equipment management program. Act as the medical treatment facility (MTF) single contracting
support focal point for medical and nonmedical goods and services to include professional services. Advise
customers, commanders, and administrators on all major logistics matters and other logistical consideration that
affect MTF operations.

1.2. Duties and Responsibilities:

1.2.1. Performs acquisition and inventory management tasks. The Air Force Medical Service’s (AFMS)
acquisition and inventory management program provides guidance and information on the capital control
concept under Air Force Working Capital Fund/Medical Dental Division operations. It also provides general
guidance on medical stock record account operating inventory control. Acquisition and inventory management
tasks include: establish inventory control policies, perform special inventory control actions (e.g. calculate
levels, reorder points, etc.), supply the MTFs medical materiel requirements, create and maintain customer
service office, seek opportunities to provide forward logistics to MTF customers, report shipment discrepancies,
determine credit for customer turn-ins, inventory medical operating supplies IAW 41-209, Medical Logistics
Support, review requirements list and process orders, perform follow-up actions on aged due-ins, and maintain
and reconcile government purchase card.

1.2.2. Performs storage and distribution tasks. The AFMS’s storage and distribution program provides policy
and procedural guidance for managing storage areas and distributing stock. Storage and distribution tasks
include: ensure controlled items are stored IAW AFI 41-209, determine for the need of an alarm system based
upon the value of material currently stored in the medical warehouse and the availability of emergency power,
check refrigerator and freezer alarm systems (if installed) no less than every 90 days, ensure temperature logs
are maintained if an alarm system is not installed, make arrangements with security police to periodically check
exterior doors and windows of the medical supply facilities during non-duty hours, and ensure unauthorized
personnel are restricted from storage areas.

1.2.3. Performs medical equipment management tasks. The AFMS’s equipment management program provides
a system for in-use equipment control and reporting based on a single organizational Medical Equipment
Management Office (MEMO) at each medical stock record account (including deployed activities). MEMO
tasks include: management of the MTFs medical equipment, maintain prescribed authorization and in-use
equipment records, responsible for maintaining files for all detached facilities supported by the host MTF, order
equipment and ensure appropriate technical recommendations required are incorporated into the equipment
purchase, train account custodians on equipment management procedures and assist in the preparation of
equipment requests, ensure MEMO inventories are performed as required, IAW AFI 41-209, and validate
equipment due-outs/due-ins no less than every 180 days from the establishment of the due-out.

1.2.4. Performs controlled medical item management tasks. The AFMS’s controlled medical items
management program provides policy and guidance for controlling and safeguarding controlled medical items,
which, because of their susceptibility to misuse and theft, require special accounting, storage, shipment and
issue precautions. Controlled medical item management tasks include: record maintenance for all accountable
transactions affecting record balances, perform monthly inventories of controlled items, witness the packaging
of all code R items and verify the contents by signing the shipping document, and ensure unauthorized personnel
do not enter the secure storage area.

                                                       13
1.2.5. Performs medical contingency materiel management tasks. The AFMS’s medical contingency materiel
management program provides policies and procedural guidance to manage medical WRM, MC-CBRN and the
medical allowance standard process. Contingency materiel management tasks include: ensure all assets in
medical WRM allowance standards are accounted for and managed, establish levels for specific WRM assets on
approved allowance standards for WRM assemblages, calculate and document basis of issue for mass casualty
first aid bed expansion and force health protection programs, manage and exercise deferred procurement
programs, ensure all assigned WRM assemblages are inventoried IAW AFI 41-209, develop a WRM acquisition
plan in advance of funding allocation, ensure all assigned WRM assemblages are stored IAW AFI 41-209,
develop activation checklists for logistics activities, brief medical readiness committee on materiel status of all
assigned contingency projects, conduct self-inspections, maintain shelf life extension program, maintain support
agreements, and maintain WRM continuity files.

2. Skill/Career Progression. Timely training and progression from the apprentice to the superintendent skill
level play an important role in the Air Force's ability to accomplish its mission. It is essential that everyone
involved in training do their part to plan, manage and conduct an effective training program. The guidance
provided in this part of the CFETP will ensure individuals receive viable training at appropriate points in their
careers. Supervisors may use this area as a guide for general counseling sessions. The following narrative and
Figures 5.1 and 5.3 identify career/skill progression.

2.1. Apprentice (3) Level. Initial skills training in the medical materiel specialty consists of tasks and
knowledge training provided in the 3-skill level in-resident course (L8ABJ4A131-00AA). All students in this
specialty will complete the Medical Materiel Apprentice course in-residence at Ft Sam Houston, TX and upon
successful completion of the course students will be awarded the 3-skill level. The primary focus of the course
is to provide the trainee a basic foundation of medical materiel practices, procedures and logistics based medical
readiness. After completion of this course, and upon arrival at his or her first duty assignment, the apprentice
will enter upgrade training through enrollment in the 4A151 Career Development Course (CDC) through
AFCDA. A section trainer certifies the apprentice in task qualification and knowledge training identified in the
STS (Part II – Section A) to progress in the career field. Once certified on a task, the apprentice may perform
the task unsupervised. Apprentices should devote their time to learning and subsequently performing assigned
duties in the specialty. Trainees can expect to be assigned to entry level materiel processes such as receiving,
storage, distribution, forward logistics, document control, research, and inventory control. Trainees may be
assigned to other sections of medical materiel not listed previously depending upon the need and size of the
work center. Knowledge of these processes provides the basis for providing further growth in the medical
materiel specialty. Although extenuating circumstances may prohibit it, trainees should be proactive and request
training in areas of self-identified weaknesses.

2.2. Journeyman (5-skill level). Journeymen are expected to build upon the skills learned as an apprentice by
learning and performing, completion of the 4A151 CDC, and certification of core tasks identified in the STS.
The CDC is a self-study correspondence course designed to provide airmen with the fundamental knowledge of
the AFS. Five-skill level upgrade training includes additional OJT for the associated skill level. Within the
medical materiel specialty, journeymen will move into more complex materiel processes such as customer
service, systems administration, requisitioning, developing requirements, contingency medical materiel,
equipment management, and etc. Once upgraded, journeymen enter into continuation training to broaden their
experience base. Journeymen will attend Airman Leadership School (ALS) when they meet the eligibility
requirements outlined in Air Force Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA) and AFI 36-2301,
Developmental Education. ALS is accredited by the Community College of the Air Force (CCAF), which
awards all graduates 10 semester hours of college credit. After ALS, journeymen may be selected to perform
duties as trainers and supervisors and be considered for appointment as unit AFS trainers. To enhance their
skills, journeymen are encouraged to continue their education toward a CCAF degree. CDCs and other study
references listed in the Enlisted Promotion Reference and Requirements Catalog are used to assist airmen in
their preparation for promotion testing.
                                                        14
2.3. Craftsman (7-skill level). Airmen must be Staff Sergeant (SSgt) selectees or above to enter craftsman
upgrade training and must successfully complete the 4A171 Medical Materiel Craftsman CDC before upgrade to
the 7-skill level. Seven-skill level upgrade training will include certification in core tasks identified in the STS.
Once upgraded, a craftsman can expect to fill various supervisory and management positions such as NCOIC,
supervisor, program manager, and task trainer.

2.3.1. Craftsman will attend the Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA) when they meet the eligibility
requirements outlined in ETCA and AFI 36-2301. The NCOA is accredited by the CCAF, which awards all
graduates 12 semester hours of college credit. As airmen progress through the ranks to Master Sergeant (MSgt)
they should take every opportunity to complete each level of professional military education (PME) at the
earliest date possible. Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy (SNCOA) in residence is accredited by the
CCAF, which awards all graduates 9 semester hours of college undergraduate credit. Eligible Technical
Sergeants (TSgt) should enroll in the Course 14 to enhance their ability to manage personnel assigned under
them. Continued academic education through CCAF and higher degree programs is strongly encouraged,
especially by enrolling in courses on management of resources and personnel.

2.3.2. Membership, certification or registration with a professional medical materiel organization is desirable.
All medical materiel personnel are eligible to obtain a Certified Materials and Resource Professional (CMRP)
certification through the Association for Healthcare Resource and Materials Management (AHRMM). IAW
AFI 41-104, Professional Board and National Certification Examinations, members can petition the local unit
for reimbursement of the cost for the certification test. For those with Veteran’s benefits, eligible members can
obtain reimbursement.

2.3.3. The Medical Materiel Supervisor Course, as outlined in the Course Training Standard in Part II, Section
A of this CFETP, is designed to provide a foundation for advanced medical materiel business practices and
theory. It is targeted towards personnel assigned as NCOIC of a Medical Materiel Flight for the first time or
appointed as the accountable officer. Attendees must possess a 7-skill level. Eligible members must submit
their names as a candidate for attendance to their MFM annually to accurately project class needs.

2.4. Superintendent (9) Level. Before attaining the 9-skill level, individuals must hold the rank of Senior
Master Sergeant (SMSgt), meet mandatory requirements listed in the AFECD, be recommended by their
supervisor, and approved by the commander for the award of the 9-skill level. A superintendent can expect to
fill positions such as flight chief, superintendent, FM, and various staff positions. Additional training in the
areas of resources, leadership skills, and management should be pursued through continuing education.
Completion of higher degree programs is strongly encouraged. Membership and certification with a
professional medical materiel organization is highly desirable.

2.5. Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM) 4A100. CEM code is awarded upon promotion to Chief Master Sergeant
(CMSgt). CEMs routinely perform duties as the FM for the career field, at various command levels, group or
squadron superintendent, and flight chief. Additional training in the areas of resources, leadership skills and
management should continue. Completion of higher degree programs is strongly encouraged. Membership and
certification with a professional medical materiel organization is desirable and strongly encouraged.

3. Training Decisions. This CFETP uses a building block approach to encompass the entire spectrum of
training requirements for the medical materiel specialty. This spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and
how to meet these training requirements. This strategy is used to develop affordable training, eliminate
duplication and prevent a fragmented approach to training. The training strategy and plan outlined in this
CFETP was formed during the 4A1X1 Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) at Ft Sam Houston, TX, 11-
14 June 2012 from information identified in biennial Occupational Survey Reviews (OSR) and training
requirements analysis conducted by the Air Force Occupational and Measurement Squadron (AFOMS) and

                                                         15
4A1X1 subject matter expert input. Changes to the CFETP were captured in the U&TW minutes and reside
with the AFCFM.

4. Community College of the Air Force. CCAF offers a degree program specifically aligned to the medical
materiel specialty in terms of logistics. When assigned to an Air Force career field, active duty, Air National
Guard (ANG) and Air Reserve Component (ARC) enlisted members are admitted to the college and registered
in the degree program designed for their AFS. This status does not change until the college receives formal
academic notice or receives an official transcript showing completion of civilian college course work or national
tests applicable to their degree program from an accredited institution. The student declares all institutions
attended for consideration of course credit acceptance in transfer if it applies to a degree program. Once a
civilian college course or national test is recorded, the student is identified as a participant. CCAF provides the
opportunity to apply credits earned for successful completion of the 3-level technical training school toward
Associates in Applied Sciences (AS) Degree in Logistics. Additionally, personnel obtain credit hours when the
5- and 7-skill level is awarded. Airmen may opt to pursue a CCAF degree in another specialty but credits
received for completion of medical materiel formal courses may not transfer to other CCAF degree programs.
While fulfilling the requirements for an AS degree in Logistics, individuals should consider elective and core
courses that may apply to other CCAF degrees or convert into 4-year degrees in a differing specialty.
Additional off duty education is a personal choice that is strongly encouraged for all airmen. Individuals
desiring to become an AETC Instructor must possess as a minimum, an AS degree or should be actively
pursuing an AS degree before applying. Personnel accepted as an AETC instructor must be within 1 year of
completing their AS degree because a degreed faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the
Southern Association of Colleges and Schools. In addition to the AS degree program, CCAF offers an
Occupational Instructor Certification for medical materiel airmen choosing an instructor path. Upon completion
of instructor qualification training consisting of the Basic Instructor Course and supervised teaching, AETC
instructors who possess an AS’s degree or higher may be nominated by their school commander or commandant
for certification as an occupational instructor. The CCAF website is located at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf.

4.1. Degree Requirements. Figure 4.1. is an excerpt from the current CCAF Student Catalog as of the
publication date of this CFETP and reflects the minimum degree requirements for an AS’s degree. NOTE: The
most recent requirements can be found on the CCAF website or through your local education office.

4.2. CCAF Credits from Medical Materiel Courses. As of the publication of this CFETP, the following CCAF
credits are awarded for the completion of the reflected courses or awarded skill level. NOTE: Members should
coordinate with their local Education Office for the most up-to-date guidance on the current CCAF credits
earned for each area.




                                                        16
                                              4A1X1 Specialty
                             Requirements for CCAF Degree in Logistics (1AMY)

Degree requirements: The journeyman (5) level                             Technical Writing ........................................... 3
must be held at the time of program completion.
                                                                          Leadership, Management & Military Studies
Technical Education (24 semester hours): A                                (6 semester hours) Professional military education,
minimum of 12 SHs of technical core subjects or                           civilian management courses accepted in transfer
courses must be applied and the remaining semester                        and/or by testing credit. See page 16.
hours applied from technical core or technical elective
subjects or courses. Requests to substitute comparable                    Physical Education (4 semester hours)
courses or to exceed specified semester hour values in
any subject or course must be approved in advance.                        General Education (15 semester hours) Applicable
See page 14, Technical Education Requirement.                             courses must meet the criteria for application of
                                                                          courses to the general education requirement and
Technical Core .....Maximum Semester Hours                                agree with the definitions of applicable courses
CCAF Internship ................. ......................... 18            starting on page 16.
Contract Management ..................................... 3
Cryogenic Operations ................................... 10               Subjects/Courses .................... Semester Hours
Distribution Management ............................. 12                  Oral Communication.......................................3
Fuels Distribution ......................................... 15           Speech Written Communication......................3
Inventory Management ................................. 12                 English composition………………….............3
Logistics Automated Systems ......................... 9                   Mathematics ................................................... 3
Logistics Management .................................. 12                        Intermediate algebra or a college-level
Materiel Handling/Plant Layout ..................... 3                            mathematics course satisfying delivering
Materiel Management ................................... 12                        institution’s mathematics graduation
Principles of Accounting ................................ 6                       requirement—if an acceptable mathematics
Principles of Economics ................................. 6                       course applies as technical or program
Principles of Purchasing ................................. 3                      elective, you may substitute a natural science
Production/Operations Management .............. 3                                 course for mathematics
Warehouse Storage & Operations .................. 8                       Social Science        .......................................... 3
                                                                                  Anthropology, archaeology, economics,
Technical Electives Maximum Semester Hours                                        geography, government, history, political
Business Ethics ............................................... 3                 science, psychology, sociology
Business Law .................................................. 3         Humanities ..................................................... 3
Business Mathematics/Statistics ..................... 3                           Fine arts (criticism, appreciation, historical
Computer Science ........................................... 6                    significance), foreign language, literature,
Environmental Protection Procedures .......... . 3                                philosophy, religion
General Chemistry .......................................... 4
Hazardous Materials ....................................... 3             Program Elective (15 semester hours): Courses
Industrial Safety .............................................. 3        applying to technical education, LMMS or general
Introduction to Business ................................. 3              education requirements; natural science courses
Introduction to Petroleum Industry ................. 3                    meeting general education requirement application
Introduction to Transportation ........................ 3                 criteria; foreign language credit earned at Defense
Labor Relations ............................................... 3         Language Institute; maximum 9 SHs of CCAF degree-
Leadership & Management ............................. 3                   applicable technical course credit otherwise not
                                                                          applicable to program of enrollment.
Managerial Communications .......................... 3                    See the Professional Credentialing section for
Medical Readiness .......................................... 3            information on credentialing and CCAF’s
Principles of Marketing .................................. 6              Credentialing and Education Research Tool.
Quality Assurance ........................................... 3

                                                Figure 4.1. 4A1X1 Degree Requirements

                                                                     17
5. Career Field Path. The following career pyramid (Figure 5.1.) pictorially reflect job and skill progression
pattern. The training and functions are aligned with rank and experience levels normally expected of someone
in that period of his or her career. For instance, special duty assignments are normally not part of an
individual’s career until they reach the grade of SSgt. We realize there will be exceptions, but you should use
this as a guide to help determine training expectations and career planning. We strongly recommend functional
managers (FMs), superintendent, and supervisors rotate 3- and 5-skill level personnel through all major career
tracks (displayed on the pyramid) to better prepare them for supervisory and management responsibilities of the
7- and 9-skill levels.




                   Skill Level                                                Professional Development

                                                                     • Keystone National Defense University
                                                                     •   The ARC of Crisis
 4A100                                            AFCFM              •   AFSO21 Executive Leadership Course
                                                   CCM               •   The Enterprise Management Seminar
                                                   CEM               •   Gettysburg Leadership Experience
                                             PME Commandant
                                                                     •   Leadership Development Program
                                            Group Superintendent




                                         Squadron Superintendent                    • SNCOA
                                                   MFM                              • Master’s Degree in Logistics,
 4A191                                        First Sergeant                          Business Admin or Personnel Mgt
                                             PME Instructor



                                  AFMOA                 4A1 Instructor                    • NCOA
                                  Readiness Instructor  MTL/MTI                           • SNCOA Correspondence (Course 14)
                                  First Sergeant        CDC Writer                        • Senior Enlisted Joint PME
 4A171                            MFM                   AF Recruiter                      • Bachelor’s Degree in Sciences in
                                  PME Instructor (ALS/NCOA)                                 Logistics, Resource Mgt, or Business
                                                                                            Admin

 4A151                                                                                               • Associates Degree in
                                                                                                       Logistics

 4A131



                                        Figure 5.1. Career Field Path
  E Commandant AAFES USAFSAM MAJCOM


5.1. Enlisted Career Path (Figure 5.2.). The grade requirements for earliest sew-on times and high
year tenure (HYT) are reflections of established policy. Figure 5.2. provides examples of specific
special duty assignments and college education levels encouraged at each rank. Individuals should use
this information to guide them through their career progression.




                                                       18
Education and Training Requirements                                   Rank               Special Duty Assignments (Examples)
                                                                 Earliest Sew-on         College Education Level Encouraged
                                                                     (HYT)
Apprentice Technical School                                                                 N/A
                                                                                            N/A
                                                                      10 months
Upgrade to Journeyman (5-Skill Level)                                                       N/A
   Complete 4A151 CDCs                                                                      Associates Degree in Logistics
   Certified in all STS Core Tasks
   Minimum 12 months UGT (9 months for retrainees)            16 months / 36 months
   Complete all duty position training requirements
                                                                        (8 years)
Airman Leadership School (ALS)                                                              N/A
    Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service or                                         Associates Degree in Logistics
    SSgt selectee
    Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt sew-                28 months
    on (AD only)
                                                                        (8 years)
Upgrade to Craftsman (7-Skill Level)                                                        Military Training Instructor (MTI)
    Complete 4A171 CDC                                                                      Military Training Leader (MTL)
    Minimum 12 month UGT (6 months for retrainees)                                          PME Instructor (ALS)
    Minimum rank of SSgt                                                3 years             4A1 Instructor
    Complete all core tasks identified at the 7-skill level                                 Associates Degree in Logistics
                                                                       (15 years)
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)                                                      PME Instructor (NCOA)
    Must be a TSgt or TSgt select                                                           AFMOA
    Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt sew-                                     Readiness Instructor
    on (AD only)                                                                            CMRP Certification
                                                                        5 years

                                                                       (20 years)
Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)                                                                  PME Instructor (NCOA)
Correspondence                                                                              CDC Writer
    Must be a TSgt with at least 2 years TIG                                                4A1 Course Supervisor
    Must complete NCOA in residence (AD Only)                                               CMRP Certification
                                                                 5 years / 8 years
                                                                                            Bachelor’s Degree in Logistics,
                                                                                             Resource Mgt, or Business
                                                                 (20 years / 24 years)
                                                                                             Admin
Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)                                                                  First Sgt Duty
    Must be a MSgt or SMSgt                                                                 CDC Writer
    Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SMSgt sew-                                    4A1 Course Supervisor
    on (AD Only)                                                                            Squadron Superintendent
                                                                        8 years
                                                                                            CMRP
                                                                                            Bachelor’s Degree in Logistics,
                                                                       (24 years)
                                                                                             Resource Mgt, or Business Admin
Upgrade to Superintendent (9-Skill Level)                                                   PME Instructor (SNCOA)
    Minimum rank of SMSgt                                                                   MFM
                                                                                            Squadron Superintendent
                                                                                            Master’s Degree in Logistics,
                                                                        11 years             Business Admin or Personnel Mgt
                                                                       (26 years)
Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM)                                                                Group Superintendent
(4A100)                                                                                     AFCFM
    Selected for promotion to the rank of CMSgt                                             CCM
    MAJCOM CMSgt Orientation                                                                CMEF
                                                                       14 years             Master’s Degree in Logistics,
                                                                                             Business Admin or Personnel Mgt
                                                                       (30 years)


                                              Figure 5.2. Enlisted Career Path


                                                                 19
                                                        EQUAL Assignment System                                  CHIEF’s GROUP



                                            CCAF                                          ADVANCE DEGREE



                                    EQUAL PLUS                     SPECIAL DUTIES              OBTAIN
                                                                                             9-SKILL LEVEL
           5-SKILL LEVEL                                                                                              NOMINATIVE
            CDCs/OJT
                                                                                                                       POSITIONS
                                 7-SKILL LEVEL
                                  CDCs/OJT                                                               IES
 3-SKILL LEVEL
   SCHOOL
                                                                  NCOA            SNCOA
                           ALS
                                                 BASE                                                          CLC
       FTAC                                      PES


     0           2     4     6         8         10        12     14        16      18      20        22       24     26     28    30



                                                                                                      STRATEGIC LEVEL (MAJCOM &
                                                                                                          AIR STAFF LEADERS)

                                                                 OPERATIONAL LEVEL (SQ THROUGH BASE-
                                                                      LEVEL MANAGERS, LEADERS)

                              TACTICAL LEVEL
                     (WORKERS, TRAINERS & SUPERVISORS)



                                  Figure 5.3. Enlisted Education and Training Path


5.2. Special Experience Identifier (SEI). If desired by the member’s Commander, medical materiel
personnel may be assigned to a Medical Readiness position. Those assigned to Medical Readiness
may be eligible for SEI 325 provided they meet the criteria outlined in the AFECD.




                                                                       20
Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements

1. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of tasks and knowledge
requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each skill level in broad, terms,
and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award and retention of each skill level. The specific task
and knowledge training requirements are identified in the STS at Part II, Sections A and B of this CFETP.

2. Specialty Qualification

2.1. Apprentice Level Training (3-skill level).

2.1.1. Specialty Qualifications: Per AFECD, for entry into this specialty, qualification to operate government
vehicles is mandatory according to AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations. A general aptitude score of 44 from the
Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery and the ability to lift 50 pounds is required.

2.1.2. Knowledge. Knowledge of Air Force property and financial accounting based on automated data
processing systems, logistics and related publications, medical materiel procedures, identity and general
characteristics of medical materiel, readiness mission, and organization of medical materiel accounts is
mandatory.

2.1.3. Education. Completion of high school courses in management, basic electronic data processing,
bookkeeping, accounting, and business administration are also desirable. Completion of Expeditionary (Basic)
Medical Readiness Course is required.


2.1.4. Training. IAW AFI 36-2201, members must complete resident initial skills training course, such as the
Medical Materiel Apprentice course, for award of the 3-skill level. Retraining into the 4A1X1 AFSC may be
accomplished via OJT alone only when specified in the applicants retraining instructions and as approved by the
Medical Materiel AFCFM. Personnel retraining via OJT may be awarded 3-skill level when the following are
met: complete knowledge training on all tasks taught in the initial skills course, complete duty position
requirements identified by the supervisor and all other mandatory requirements.

2.1.5. Experience. No other experience is required for the 3-skill level.

2.1.6. Training Sources and Resources. Apprentice level training course (L8ABJ4A13100AA) is available
through the 382 TRS, Ft Sam Houston, TX.

2.1.7. Implementation. Member is awarded the 3-skill level upon successful completion of course.

2.2. Journeyman Level Training (5-skill level).

2.2.1. Knowledge. Knowledge of Air Force property accounting based on automated data processing systems,
Air Force Instructions, medical materiel procedures, general characteristics of all medical materiel sections, war
readiness mission, equipment management, and organization of medical units is mandatory. Knowledge of
business accounting, typing, ten key use, computer terminals, materiel distribution and management, web-based
navigation and data automation is desirable.

2.2.2. Education. Completion of applicable level of PME is desirable.

2.2.3. Training. IAW AFI 36-2201, individuals must complete mandatory 4A151 CDCs, all core tasks
identified in the STS portion of Part II of this CFETP and other duty position tasks identified by the supervisor.
                                                        21
Award of the 5-skill level also requires completion of a minimum of 12 months in upgrade training, all
mandatory requirements listed in AFECD, specialty descriptions, CFETP, and the recommendation of their
supervisors. Individuals in retraining status are subject to the same training requirements and must complete a
minimum of 9 months in UGT. Completion of interactive courseware training for computer operators.

2.2.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of the 3-skill level in the 4A1 specialty is mandatory.

2.2.5. Training Sources and Resources. The CDC for this skill-level is developed by the 382 TRS, Ft Sam
Houston, TX, and is available through your unit training manager.

2.2.6. Implementation. The member’s commander awards the 5-skill level upon successful completion of 5-
skill level requirements outlined in 9.2.1.3.

2.3. Craftsman Level Training (7-skill level).

2.3.1. Knowledge. Knowledge of Air Force property and financial accounting based on automated data
processing, logistics and related publications, medical materiel procedures, identity and general characteristics
of medical materiel, and organization of medical materiel accounts is mandatory. Knowledge of business
accounting, word processing, graphics, database management, spreadsheets, writing, and preparing and
presenting training briefs is desirable.

2.3.2. Education. A CCAF associate’s degree in logistics is desirable, but applicable level of PME is required.

2.3.3. Training. For the award of the 7-skill level, an individual must be at least a staff sergeant, complete
mandatory CDCs, demonstrate proficiency on the core tasks identified in the CFETP and other duty position
tasks identified by the supervisor, meet mandatory requirements listed in the specialty description in AFECD,
complete a minimum 12 months in training, and be recommended by the supervisor. Individuals in retraining
status are subject to the same requirements and must complete a minimum 6 months in UGT AFI 36-2201.

2.3.4. Experience. Qualification and possession of the 5-skill level in the specialty is mandatory. Must have
minimum rank of SSgt and have completed 12 months OJT.

2.3.5. Training Sources and Resources. The CDC for this skill-level is developed by the 382 TRS, Ft Sam
Houston, TX, and is available through your unit training manager.

2.3.6. Implementation. The member’s commander awards the 7-skill level upon successful completion of the 7-
level skill requirements outlined in 2.3.3.


2.4. Superintendent Level Training (9-skill level).

2.4.1. Knowledge. Knowledge in medical materiel theory and techniques, property and financial accounting
based on automated data processing, logistics and related publications, medical materiel procedures, identity and
general characteristics of medical materiel, and organization of medical materiel accounts is mandatory.
Knowledge of management, supervision, problem solving, business accounting, data automation procedures,
and management and supervision of personnel is desirable.

2.4.2. Education. Completion of the SNCOA. Completion of a bachelor’s degree in a related discipline is
highly desirable.

2.4.3. Training. IAW AFI 36-2201, member must hold the rank of SMSgt.
                                                 22
2.4.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of the 7-skill level in the specialty is mandatory.

2.4.5. Training Sources/Resources. Qualified trainers using appropriate local and other training materials
provide qualification training. Use of exportable and contract training is encouraged when available.

2.4.6. Implementation. Entry into training begins when an individual has attained the 7-skill level, and is a
SMSgt or SMSgt select. Commanders award individuals the 9-skill level upon completion of all training and
experience requirements and after promotion to SMSgt.




                                                        23
Section D - Resource Constraints.

1. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints that preclude optimal/desired training from
being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower. Narrative explanations of
each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what effect each constraint has on training are
included. Also included in this section are actions required, office of primary responsibility, and target
completion dates. At a minimum, perform an annual review of resource constraints affecting training and
amend this section if needed. At this time there are no training constraints.

2. Reporting Qualification Training Constraints - Units/MAJCOMS.

2.1. Supervisors should report known resource constraints that prevent personnel from completing the
mandatory training requirements specified in this plan to their unit training manager. Reference AFI 36-2201
regarding requests for waivers.

2.1.1. In the report, provide a brief description of the resource constraints that adversely affect your training
program and include the impact this constraint has or will have on training, briefly list what is needed to correct
the problem, what action is required of the office or person addressed, and an estimated completion date.
Identify the specific STS task code(s) affected. If the memorandum provides information only, include a
statement that a response is unnecessary. See Figure 2.1 as a guide for documenting and reporting resource
constraints.

2.1.2. If the constraint can be resolved at the local level, the report will be coordinated with the Unit 4A1X1
FM. If the impact affects unit RSV requirements, the report will be coordinated with the group commander. If
the constraint needs MAJCOM support, forward the report through your group commander to the 4A1 MFM.
Constraints that cannot be resolved at the unit or MAJCOM level, or have a long term estimated completion date
must be forwarded to the 4A1X1 AFCFM as a request for waiver or deferment of CFETP requirements.




                                                        24
                                          DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                     AIR FORCE MEDICAL OPERATIONS AGENCY
                                               SAN ANTONIO TEXAS


                                                                                                              10 July 2013

       MEMORANDUM FOR HQ AFMOA/SGAL

       FROM: 911 MDG

       SUBJECT: Report of Qualification Training Constraint

       1. The mandatory specialty training standard (STS) requirements that cannot be completed is:

            a.   Training standard number and date: STS 4A1X1, Aug 13

            b.   STS paragraph number affected: 7.1.1.

       2. Due to DVD equipment limitations, we are not able to complete the required task. For this reason A1C Scooby
       D. Doo will not be able to complete 5-skill level upgrade training in formatting DVDs.

       3. Waiver to the mandatory core task training is required by the CFETP.

       4. A1C Scooby D. Doo will acquire training in formatting DVDs as soon as local training resources are available.

       5. Please approve this waiver for core task training required on STS paragraph 7.1.1. If you have questions, please
       contact me at DSN 555-5555.




                                                            DEPUTY A. DOG, MSgt, USAF
                                                            Task Certifier, AFSC 4A1X1

cc: Lt Col McCann

1st Ind, ACSC/DEO 5 Apr 04



                      Figure 2.1. Memorandum for Reporting Qualification Training Constraint


     Section E. Transitional Training Guide. This section not used.




                                                                25
Part II
Section A - Specialty Training Standard (STS)
1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training for classes beginning after 13 July 2013 and
graduating thereafter until the STS is revised. Training documentation will be accomplished in AFTR. AETC
will begin implementation of this STS technical training with the formal class entering and graduating for course
L8ABJ4A131 00AA.

2. Structure:

2.1. Column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) shows the most common tasks, knowledge
requirements, and technical references (TR) necessary for 4A1 Airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-
skill levels.

2.2. Column 2 shows the core tasks (for both 5 and 7- levels) identified by the numbers “5” and/or “7.”

2.3. Column 3 shows certification for OJT document training start and completion dates and initials.

2.3.1. Column 3A indicates the training start date.

2.3.2. Column 3B indicates the training completion date.

2.3.3. Column 3C is reserved for the trainee’s initials.

2.3.4. Column 3D is reserved for the trainer’s initials.

2.3.5. Column 3E is reserved for the certifier’s initials. Note: There are currently no 4A tasks that require third-
party certification.

2.4. Column 4 Proficiency code used to indicate training/information provided.

2.4.1. Column 4A shows the Medical Materiel Apprentice Course training requirements.

2.4.2. Column 4B shows 4A151 CDC training requirements.

2.4.3 Column 4C shows 4A171 CDC training requirements.

3. Recommendations for Feedback on Product/Process: Report unsatisfactory performance of individual
course graduates to the course contact at the 382 TRS, Ft Sam Houston, TX, DSN: 420-5156. Be sure to
reference specific STS paragraphs when forwarding reports.


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE



OFFICIAL                                                    THOMAS W. TRAVIS
                                                            Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
                                                            Surgeon General


                                                           26
                                 Section A – Medical Materiel (4A1X1) STS
    This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
    Name Of Trainee

    Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                       Initials (Written)             SSAN

                                                   Printed Name Of Certifying Official And Written Initials

    N/I                                                                     N/I

    N/I                                                                     N/I

    N/I                                                                     N/I

    N/I                                                                     N/I

    N/I                                                                     N/I

    N/I                                                                     N/I

    N/I                                                                     N/I

    N/I                                                                     N/I



                                                        QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                                   Proficiency Code Key
                                        Scale     Definition: The individual
                                        Value

                                           1      Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (Extremely
                                                  Limited)
              Task                         2      Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)

          Performance                      3      Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)

             Levels                        4      Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task.
                                                  (Highly Proficient)
                                           a      Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)

            *Task                          b      Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)

          Knowledge                        c      Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                                                  (Operating Principles)
              Levels                       d      Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)

                                           A      Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)

          **Subject                        B      Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (Principles)

          Knowledge                        C      Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)

            Levels                         D      Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)

    Explanations
     * All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war time.
     ** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
     subject common to several tasks.
     - This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.
     X This mark is used alone in the course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.
NOTE 1: An "*" designates task and knowledge items trained during the resident apprentice level wartime course.
NOTE 2: Training References (TRs) listed in Column 1 and in the bibliography are approved for use in formal course and MTP development.
NOTE 3: Tasks designated with a "5" or a "7" in Column 2 are core tasks for 5- or 7-level UGT respectively. If a core task is required for both skill levels,
then "5/7" is posted.
NOTE 4: The AFCFM has determined that tasks will not require a third party task certifier; therefore, column E does not need a Certifier's Initials for task
completion.
 NOTE 5: Columns 4 (A1, A2) specify the level of training provided by the 3 skill level resident Phase I and Phase II courses. During OJT, tasks are
trained and evaluated to the "Go" level.

                                                                             27
                                      Behavioral Statement STS Coding System
   Code                                                    Definition

     K           Subject Knowledge Training - The verb selection identifies the individual’s ability to
                 identify facts, state principles, analyze, or evaluate the subject

      P          Performance Training - Identifies that the individual has performed the task to the
                 satisfaction of the course; however, the individual may not be capable of meeting the
                 filed requirements for speed and accuracy.

     pk          Performance Knowledge Training - The verb selection identifies the individual’s
                 ability to relate simple facts, procedures, operating principles, and operational theory
                 for the task.

      -          No training provided in the course or CDC.


     X           Training is required but not provided due to limitations in resources.

Each STS element is written as a behavioral statement. The detail of the statement and verb selection reflects the level of training
provided by resident training and career development courses.




                                                                  28
                                                                             3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                              To Indicate
                                                                   2.                     (Note 4)                            Training/Information
Note 1           1.   Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   Core                                                        Provided (Note 5)
                                      (Note 2)                    Tasks        A         B        C         D        E           A         B         C
                                                                  (Note 3)    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                              Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials    Level     Level     Level

 1 MISSION AND ORGANIZATION

 TR: AFDD1; AFPD 41-1; AFI 41-209; AFI 36-2101; AFI 36-2618; PDG

 1.1 Air Force Structure                                                                                                         A          -         -

 1.2 Career Progression                                                                                                          A          -         -

 2 SECURITY

 TR: AFPD10-7; AFPD 31-4; AFPD 33-1; AFPD 33-2; AFI 10-701; AFI 33-114; AFMAN 33-152; AFI 31-
  401; AFI 33-202V1; AFI 33-203V1; AFI 33-212; DODR 5250.1; AFI 31-101

 * 2.1 Security Vulnerabilities                                                                                                  A          -         -

 * 2.2 Classified Material                                                                                                        -         B         -

 3 OFFICE ADMINISTRATION

 TR: AFI 33-364; AFMAN 33-363; Air Force Electronic Publications List (AFEPL); Air Force Records
  Information Management System (AFRIMS)

 3.1 File Plan Preparation and Maintenance                                                                                        -        A         A

 3.2 Electronic Mail Management                                                                                                   -         -         -

 3.3 Self Inspection Checklist                                                                                                    -         -         -

 4 SUPERVISION AND TRAINING

 TR: AFI 36-2201; AFI 36-2101; Air Force Training Record (AFTR)

 4.1 Orient New Personnel                                                                                                         -         -         -

 4.2 Duties and Responsibilities                                                                                                 A          -         -

 4.3 CFETP Familiarization

 5 SUPPLY DISCIPLINE AND ACCOUNTABILITY

 TR: AFI 23-111; AFI 41-209 ; AFMAN 23-220

 * 5.1 Principles of Supply Discipline                                                                                           A          B         -



                                                             29
                                                                               3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                                To Indicate
                                                                     2.                     (Note 4)                            Training/Information
Note 1           1.     Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   Core                                                        Provided (Note 5)
                                        (Note 2)                    Tasks        A         B        C         D        E           A         B         C
                                                                    (Note 3)    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials    Level     Level     Level

 * 5.2 Demonstrate Supply Chain Cycle                                  5                                                           1a         b         -

 5.3 Roles and Responsibilities of the Accountable Officer             7                                                            -        A         B

 6 MEDICAL MATERIEL REFERENCES

 TR: AFPD 36-26; AFI 41-209; AFMAN 41-216; Air Force Medical Logistics (AFML) Website; AFEPL;
  Unit Manpower Document (UMD); Unit Personnel Management Roster (UPMR)

 6.1 Research Policies and Procedures                                                                                              1a         -         -

 6.2 AFML website                                                                                                                  A         A          -

 6.3 Research Catalog Data                                                                                                         1a         -         -

 6.4 Support Activities                                                                                                             -        A          -

 6.5 Manpower Requirements and Standards                                                                                            -         -        B

 7 STORAGE AND DISTRIBUTION MANAGEMENT

 TR: AFPD23-1; AFPD 24-2; AFI 24-203; AFI 41-209; AFI 31-101; AFMAN 23-110 Volume 6; AFMAN
  24-204; AFMAN 41-216; AFJMAN 23-209; AFI 91-203; DOD 4145.19-R-1; T.O. 00-35A-39; HSI
  Checklist

 7.1 Principles of Storage and Distribution                            5                                                            -         -         -

 * 7.1.1 Store Materiel                                                                                                            1a         b         -

 * 7.1.2 Resource Protection                                                                                                       A          B         -

 * 7.1.3 Materiel Serviceability                                                                                                   A          B         -

 7.2 Receiving Procedures                                              5                                                            -         -         -

 * 7.2.1 Verify Shipments                                                                                                          1a         b         -

 * 7.2.2 Annotate Documents                                                                                                        1a         b        2b

 * 7.2.3 Process Receipt Actions                                                                                                   2b         b        2b

 7.2.4 Initiate Corrective Actions for Discrepancies                                                                                -         b         -

 7.3 Issue Procedures                                                  5                                                            -         -         -


                                                               30
                                                                                3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                                 To Indicate
                                                                      2.                     (Note 4)                            Training/Information
Note 1              1.   Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   Core                                                        Provided (Note 5)
                                         (Note 2)                    Tasks        A         B        C         D        E           A         B         C
                                                                     (Note 3)    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                 Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials    Level     Level     Level

 * 7.3.1 Pick Stock                                                                                                                 2b         b         -

 * 7.3.2 Confirm Pick List                                                                                                          2b         b         -

 * 7.3.3 Deliver Materiel                                                                                                            b         b         -

 7.3.4 Resolve Discrepancies                                                                                                         -         b         b

 7.4 Packing, Marking, and Shipping Materiel                                                                                         -         -         -

 7.5 Controlled Medical Items                                           5                                                            -         -         -

 * 7.5.1 Identify                                                                                                                   1a         b         b

 7.5.2 Receive                                                                                                                       -         b         b

 7.5.3 Initiate Corrective Actions for Discrepancies                                                                                           b         b

 7.5.4 Issue                                                                                                                                   b         b

 7.5.5 Store and Safeguard                                                                                                           -         b         b

 * 7.5.6 DEA Registration and Documentation                                                                                          -         b         b

 7.5.7 Inventory                                                                                                                     -         b         b

 7.5.8 Research Discrepancies                                                                                                        -         b         b

 7.7 Manage Precious Metals Recovery Program                                                                                         -         b         -

 7.7 Customer Returns                                                   5                                                            -         -         -

 7.7.1 Verify Materiel Serviceability                                                                                                -         b         -

 7.7.2 Determine Credit                                                                                                              -         b         -

 7.7.3 Process Returns                                                                                                               -         b         -

 7.7.4 Determine Disposition                                                                                                         -         b         -

 7.8 Manage Excess Program                                              5                                                            -         b         b

 7.9 Commercial Returns Program                                                                                                      -         -         -

 7.9.1 Identify and Categorize                                                                                                       -         b         -


                                                                31
                                                                              3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                               To Indicate
                                                                    2.                     (Note 4)                            Training/Information
Note 1            1.   Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   Core                                                        Provided (Note 5)
                                       (Note 2)                    Tasks        A         B        C         D        E           A         B         C
                                                                   (Note 3)    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                               Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials    Level     Level     Level

 7.9.2 Audit Trail Reconciliation                                     5                                                            -         B        B

 7.9.3 Process Returned Goods Checks/Vouchers                                                                                      -         -         -

 * 7.10 Inspect and Repack Medical Kits                                                                                            -         b         -

 7.11 Maintain CAIM and CS Pending Actions                                                                                         b         b         -

 8 INVENTORY MANAGEMENT

 TR: AFI 41-209; AFMAN 41-216; US Army Medical Materiel Agency (USAMMA) Website; AFML
  Website

 * 8.1 Establish and Revise Catalog Record                            5                                                           2b         b         -

 * 8.2 Establish and Revise SOS Record                                5                                                           2b         b         -

 8.3 Source Documents                                                 5                                                            -         -         -

 * 8.3.1 Perform Quality Control                                                                                                  1a         b         -

 8.3.2 Perform Corrective Action                                    5/7                                                            -         a         b

 8.4 Inventory Control                                                                                                             -         -         -

 8.4.1 Stratify                                                       5                                                            -         a         b

 8.4.2 Process Gains and Losses                                       7                                                            -         a         b

 8.4.3 Establish Stock Control Methods                              5/7                                                            -         a         b

 8.5 Inventory Procedures                                             7                                                            -         -         -

 8.5.1 Establish Guidelines                                                                                                        -         b         b

 8.5.2 Perform Counts                                                                                                              -         b         b

 8.5.3 Research Discrepancies                                                                                                      -         -         b

 8.5.4 Process Adjustments                                                                                                         -         -         b

 8.5.5 Finalize Inventory                                                                                                          -         -         b

 * 8.6 Perform Inquiries                                              5                                                           1a         b         -


                                                              32
                                                                              3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                               To Indicate
                                                                    2.                     (Note 4)                            Training/Information
Note 1            1.   Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   Core                                                        Provided (Note 5)
                                       (Note 2)                    Tasks        A         B        C         D        E           A         B         C
                                                                   (Note 3)    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                               Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials    Level     Level     Level

8.7 Generate Reports                                                5/7                                                            -         a         b

 8.8 Customer Account Management                                                                                                   -         -         -

 8.8.1 Maintain Customer Catalog                                                                                                  2b         b         -

 * 8.8.2 Perform Customer Inventory/Process Customer Issues         5/7                                                           2b         b         b
        and Replenishment

 8.8.3 Establish and Revise Cost/Expense Center Records               7                                                            -         a         b

 8.8.4 Establish and Revise Project Funds Management                  7                                                            -         a         b
      Records/Project Centers

 8.8.5 Customer Service Program                                                                                                    -         -         -

 8.8.5.1 Roles and Responsibilities                                 5/7                                                           A          B         -

 8.8.5.2 Customer Training                                                                                                         -         -         -

 8.8.5.2.1 Initial Custodial Training                                                                                              -         a         b

 8.8.5.2.2 Annual Custodial Training                                                                                               -         -         -

 8.9 Medical Materiel Financial Reports                                                                                            -         -        B

 8.10 Quality Assurance (QA)/Risk Management Program                  5                                                            -         -         -

 8.10.1 Retrieve QA Messages                                                                                                      2b         b         b

 8.10.2 Route and Process QA Messages                                                                                             2b         b         b

 8.10.3 Finalize QA Message                                                                                                        -         b         b

 8.10.4 Manage Suspended Items/Records                                                                                             -         b         b

 8.10.5 Materiel Complaints                                         5/7                                                            -        A          b

 8.11 Process Status Edits                                          5/7                                                            -         b         b

 8.12 Process Pending Actions                                       5/7                                                            -         b         b

 9 SERVICE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT



                                                              33
 TR: AFI 41-209; AFI 63-501; AFI 64-117; AFMAN 41-216; Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR); DFAR;
  Contractor Manpower Reporting Application (CMRA); Wide Area Work Flow (WAWF); Base Contracting
  Office (BCO) Local Procedures

                                                                             3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                              To Indicate
                                                                   2.                     (Note 4)                            Training/Information
Note 1           1.   Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   Core                                                        Provided (Note 5)
                                      (Note 2)                    Tasks        A         B        C         D        E           A         B         C
                                                                  (Note 3)    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                              Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials    Level     Level     Level

 9.1 Personal/Non-Personal Service Contracts                                                                                      -        A         B

 9.2 Agency Coordination                                                                                                          -        A         B

 9.3 Elements of a Procurable Contracting Package                                                                                 -        A         B

 9.4 Funding                                                       5/7                                                            -         -         -

 9.4.1 Process AF Form 9                                                                                                          -         a         b

 9.4.2 Process Military Interdepartmental (MIPR) Request                                                                          -         a         b

 9.4.3 Process Automated Procedures                                                                                               -         a         b

 9.5 Rental Agreements                                                                                                            -         -         -

 9.6 Contract Documentation                                                                                                       -         -         -

 9.6.1 Roles and Responsibility                                                                                                   -        A         B

 9.6.2 Training Requirements                                                                                                      -         -         -

 9.6.3 Invoice Procedures                                                                                                         -         -         -

 10 ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT

 TR: AFI 25-301; AFI 41-209; AFI 64-102; AFI 64-117; AFMAN 41-216; FAR; AFML Website; DMM-
  Online Website

 10.1 Funding Methods                                                                                                             -         -         -

 10.1.1 Medical-Dental Division (MDD) of the Air Force                                                                            -        A         B
       Working Capital Fund (AFWCF)

 10.1.2 Operations and Maintenance (O&M)                                                                                          -        A         B

 10.2 Requirements                                                     5                                                          -         -         -

 10.2.1 Review Requirements/Log Orders                                                                                           1a         b         -



                                                             34
                                                                                                                          4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                          To Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information
                                                                    2. Core 3. Certification For OJT                      Provided (Note 5)
             1.    Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References         Tasks             (Note 4)
Note 1
                                        (Note 2)                     (Note 3)
                                                                              A   B       C     D    E                       A         B         C
                                                                            Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                            Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials    Level     Level     Level

 10.2.2 Process New Item Requests                                                                                            1a         b         -

 10.3 Purchasing                                                                                                              -         -         -

 10.3.1 Prime Vendor                                                                                                         1a         b         -

 10.3.1.1 PV Contract Familiarization                                                                                         -        A         B

 10.3.1.2 Manage Credit Accounts                                                                                              -         -         b

 10.3.1.3 Process Usage/Non-Usage Items Requisitions                                                                          -         -         -

 10.3.2 Process Controlled Items Requisitions                          7                                                      a         b         b

 10.3.3 Process Electronic Catalog (ECAT) Requisitions                                                                        a         b         -

 10.3.4 Process Blanket Purchase Agreement (BPA)                       7                                                      a         b         b
       Requisitions

 10.3.5 Government-wide Purchasing Card (GPC)                                                                                 -         -         -

 10.3.5.1 Roles and Responsibilities                                                                                         A          -         -

 10.3.5.2 Perform Reconciliation                                       5                                                      -         b         -

 10.3.6 Base Contracting                                                                                                      -         -         -

 10.4 Process Follow-up Procedures                                     5                                                      a         b         -

 11 EQUIPMENT MANAGEMENT

 TR: AFI 41-209; AFMAN 23-220; AFMAN 41-216; AFMAN 23-110

 * 11.1 Roles and Responsibilities                                   5/7                                                     A          B         b

 11.2 Establish and Maintain Custodian Equipment Files                5                                                       -         b         -

 11.3 Process Equipment Requests                                      5                                                       -         b         -

 11.4 Manage Reports                                                 5/7                                                      -         b         b

 11.5 Receipt Process                                                                                                         -         b         b

 11.6 Inventory                                                       7                                                       -         -         -


                                                               35
                                                                              3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                               To Indicate
                                                                    2.                     (Note 4)                            Training/Information
Note 1           1.    Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   Core                                                        Provided (Note 5)
                                       (Note 2)                    Tasks        A         B        C         D        E           A         B         C
                                                                   (Note 3)    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                               Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials    Level     Level     Level

 11.6.1 Establish Guidelines                                                                                                       -         a         b

 11.6.2 Custodian Receipt Locator List                                5                                                            -         a         b

 11.6.3 Locate and Verify                                                                                                          -         -         b

 11.6.4 Conduct Research                                                                                                           -         -         b

 11.6.5 Adjust Balances                                                                                                            -         -         b

 11.6.6 Certify and Obtain Approval                                                                                                -         -         b

 11.6.7 Annotate and Complete Adjustments                                                                                          -         -         b

 11.6.8 Manage Inventory Project File                                                                                              -         -         b

 11.7 Report of Survey                                                                                                             -         -        B

 11.8 Budget Process                                                                                                               -         a         b

 11.9 Process Returns                                                                                                              -         a         b

 11.10 Process Transfers                                                                                                           -         a         b

 11.11 Process Excess                                                                                                              -         a         b

 11.12 Process Gains and Losses                                                                                                    -         a         b

 11.13 Process Equipment Pending Actions                                                                                           -         a         b

 11.14 User Tests                                                                                                                  -         -         -

 12 Contingency Operations

 TR: AFI 10-201; AFI 10-401, Volume 1; AFI 10-403; AFI 25-101; AFI 25-201; AFI 41-106; AFJI 41-208;
  AFI 41-209; AFMAN 41-216; DLAR 4155.37; TR: AFI 10-201; AFI 10-207; AFI 41-106; AFJI 41-208;
  AFI 41-209; AFI 44-105; AFH 44-152; AFMAN 41-216; AFMAN 24-204; JP 4-02.1; AFTTP 3-42.8;
  AFTTP 3-42.71;DoD 77-30.65; USAMMA Website; Integrated Data Environment (IDE)/Global
  Transportation Network (GTN) Convergence (IGC) Website

 * 12.1 Roles and Responsibilities                                  5/7                                                           A          B        B

 12.2 Medical Readiness Committee (MRC)                                                                                            -         -         -



                                                              36
                                                                              3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                               To Indicate
                                                                    2.                     (Note 4)                            Training/Information
Note 1           1.    Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   Core                                                        Provided (Note 5)
                                       (Note 2)                    Tasks        A         B        C         D        E           A         B         C
                                                                   (Note 3)    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                               Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials    Level     Level     Level

 12.2.1 Medical Contingency Response Plans (MCRP)                                                                                                     A

 12.2.2 Medical Resource Letter (MRL)

 12.2.3 Designed Operational Capabilities (DOC) Statement

 12.2.4 Mission Capability (MISCAP) Statement

 12.2.5 Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS),                                                                           -        A         B
     Limiting Factors (LIMFAC) and Defense Readiness
     Report System (DRRS)

 12.3 Compute WRM Levels and Requirements                                                                                          -         a         b

 12.4 WRM Funding, Procurement and Replacement                                                                                     -         a         b

 12.5 Centrally Managed Equipment                                                                                                  -         -        B

 12.6 Deferred Procurement Program                                                                                                 -         -        B

 12.7 Asset Management                                                                                                             -         -         -

 12.7.1 Allowance Standards                                                                                                       A          B        B

 12.7.2 Establish and Update Data Records and Balances                                                                             a         b         b

 12.7.3 Manage Reports                                                                                                             -         b         b

 12.8 Perform Inventory                                                                                                            a         b         b

 12.9 Pilot Unit/Non-Pilot Unit Responsibilities                                                                                   -         B        B

 * 12.10 Dated Items                                                                                                               -         B        B

 12.11 Manage Shelf Life Extension Program (SLEP)                     5                                                            -         b         b

 12.12 Logistics Module (LOGMOD)                                      5                                                            -        A         A

 12.13 Special Handling Requirements                                                                                               -         -         -

 12.13.1 Narcotics/Controlled Items                                                                                                -         B        B

 12.13.2 Temperature Controlled                                                                                                    -         -         -

 12.13.3 Rolling Stock                                                                                                             -         -         -

                                                              37
                                                                                                                               4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                               To Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information
                                                                              3. Certification For OJT                         Provided (Note 5)
             1.   Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                (Note 4)
Note 1                                                              2.          A      B      C     D                 E
                                       (Note 2)                                                                                   A         B         C
                                                                   Core        Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier
                                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                               Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials
                                                                   Tasks                                                        Level     Level     Level
                                                                   (Note 3)

 12.14 Cargo Preparation and Palletizing Functions                                                                                 -         -         -

 12.15 Cargo Marshaling Functions                                                                                                  -         -         -

 12.16 Hazardous Cargo Certification                                                                                               -         -         -

 12.17 Support Agreements and Loan Process                                                                                         -         -         -

 12.18 Assemblage Transfers                                                                                                        -         b         b

 12.19 Force Health Protection Assets (i.e. BW/CW, Anthrax,                                                                        -         -         -
     etc.)

 12.19.1 Management                                                                                                                -         B        B

 12.19.2 Distribution                                                                                                              -         b         b

 12.20 Manpower, Equipment, and Forces Packaging                                                                                   -         -        A
     (MEFPAK) System

 12.21 Global Transportation Network (GTN) and Global air                                                                          -         -         -
     Transportation Execution System (GATES)

 12.22 In-garrison Maintenance Contract                                                                                            -         -         -

 12.23 Continuity Binders                                                                                                          -         -         -

 12.23.1 Shelf Life Extension Program (SLEP)                                                                                       -         -         -

 12.23.2 WRM Project                                                                                                               -         -         -

 12.23.3 MC-CBRN                                                                                                                   -         -         -

 12.24 Expeditionary Medical Logistics (EML)                                                                                       -         B        B

 12.25 Patient Movement Items (PMI)                                                                                                -         B        B

 12.26 Customer Owned Assemblages                                                                                                  -         B        B

 12.27 Contracting at Deployed Locations                                                                                           -         -         -

 * 12.28 Cold Chain Management                                                                                                     -        A          -



                                                              38
                                                                              3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                               To Indicate
                                                                    2.                     (Note 4)                            Training/Information
Note 1            1.   Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   Core                                                        Provided (Note 5)
                                       (Note 2)                    Tasks        A         B        C         D        E           A         B         C
                                                                   (Note 3)    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                               Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials    Level     Level     Level

 * 12.29 Secure/Non-Secure Communication Device                                                                                    -        A         A
       Management

 13 ACCOUNTABLE SYSTEM OPERATIONS

 TR: AFI 33-112; AFI 41-209; AFMAN 41-216

 * 13.1 Perform Personal Computer Operations                          5                                                           2b         -         -

 13.2 DMLSS Operations                                              5/7                                                            -         -         -

 13.2.1 Systems Administration                                                                                                     -        A         B

 13.2.2 User Administration                                                                                                        -        A         B

 13.2.3 Monitor Incoming/Outgoing Files                                                                                            -        A         B

 13.2.4 Resolve Communication Issues                                                                                               -        A         B

 13.3 Operate Peripheral Devices                                      5                                                           1a         b         -

 13.4 ADPE Management                                                                                                              -         -         -

 14 VEHICLE UTILIZATION

 TR: AFI 24-301

 14.1 Proper Use and Care                                                                                                          -         -         -

 14.1.1 Operate Materiel Handling Equipment                                                                                        -         -         -

 * 14.1.2 Operate General Purpose Vehicles                                                                                         -         -         -

 14.1.3 Operate Special Purpose Vehicles                                                                                           -         -         -

 14.2 Management of Vehicles                                                                                                       -         -         -

 15 ENVIRONMENT OF CARE

 TR: AFI 41-201; AFMAN 41-216; AFI 91-202; AFI 91-203; JCAHO CAM-H Manual

 15.1 Safety Programs                                                                                                              -         -         -

 15.1.1 Implement and Evaluate                                                                                                     -         a         a


                                                              39
                                                                                3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                                 To Indicate
                                                                      2.                     (Note 4)                            Training/Information
Note 1              1.   Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   Core                                                        Provided (Note 5)
                                         (Note 2)                    Tasks        A         B        C         D        E           A         B         C
                                                                     (Note 3)    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                 Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials    Level     Level     Level

 15.1.2 Report Mishaps                                                  5                                                            -         a         a

 * 15.2 AFOSH Standards                                                                                                             A          B        B

 15.3 Hazardous Materiel Management                                                                                                  -         -         -

 15.3.1 Functions and Responsibilities                                                                                              A          B        B

 * 15.3.2 Materiel Safety Data Sheets (MSDS)                                                                                        A          B        B

 15.3.3 Process HAZMAT Pharmacy Requirements                                                                                         -         b         b

 15.4 Gas Systems                                                                                                                    -         -         -

 * 15.4.1 Identify Gas Types                                            5                                                            a         a         -

 * 15.4.2 Storage                                                                                                                   A         A          -

 * 15.4.3 Testing                                                                                                                   A         A          -




                                                                40
4. Medical Materiel Supervisors Course (J3AZR4A171 00AA): This course provides training in the
knowledge and skills needed to perform the duties in medical logistics system procedures emphasizing logistics
management techniques. Scope of training includes the following: Medical Materiel Management Theory,
Defense Medical Logistics Standard Support Management Operations, Business Object Reports Generation,
Expeditionary Medical Materiel Operations, Ancillary Training and completion of a full-circle supply-chain
management exercise. The following course training standard identifies the training members receive in the
Medical Materiel Supervisor Course:


                               Task/Knowledge                                              Proficiency Level
1. Medical Materiel Management
Strategic Planning and Key Performance Indicators                                                  B
Workflow Efficiencies                                                                              B
Commercial Business Practices                                                                      B
Certifications                                                                                     B
Perform Self Inspections                                                                           2b
2. Defense Medical Logistics Standard Support (DMLSS) Operations
Management
Manage System Services                                                                              c
Conduct System Administration                                                                       c
Perform Inventory Management                                                                        c
Execute Customer Support/Customer Area Inventory Management                                         c
Joint Medical Asset Repository (JMAR) Operations                                                   B
3. Perform Vault Functions                                                                         2c
4. Contract Services                                                                               B
5. Equipment and Technology Management
Execute Medical Equipment Management Office Functions                                              2c
Clinical Engineering Management Interface                                                          B
Facility Management                                                                                B
6. Utilize Business Objects                                                                        2c
7. Contingency Asset Management
7.1. War Reserve Materiel Mission
Programs                                                                                           C
Readiness Partnership                                                                              C
Deployment Operations and Resources                                                                C
Execute DMLSS Assemblage Management                                                                2c
7.2. Medical Counter-Chemical Biological Radiological Nuclear (MC-CBRN)                            C
8. External Systems                                                                                B
9. Reconcile Financial Reports                                                                     2c
10. Analyze Manpower Requirements                                                                  b
11. Exercise Supply Chain Management                                                               2c




                                                      41
Section B - Course Objective List (COL)

1. Course Objectives for Initial Skills Course. To obtain a copy of a COL, contact:

Training Development Element
383 TRS/TRR
3480 Garden Avenue
Ft Sam Houston, TX 78234
Phone: DSN 420-5157 or Commercial: (210) 808-5157

1.1. Each proficiency coded task or knowledge item taught at the technical school is measured using an
objective. An objective is a written instruction for the students, so they know what is expected of them to
successfully complete training on each task or knowledge item. Each objective is composed of a condition,
behavior, and a standard. The condition is the setting in which the training takes place (type of equipment or
references when required). The behavior is the observable portion of the objective (perform hand washing).
The standard is the level of performance that is measured to ensure the proficiency code level is maintained
(e.g., to a 70% or with no instructor assists). All objectives use a progress check (PC), written test (W) or a (-)
combination of both to measure a student’s ability (skill) or knowledge.

1.2. Standard. The minimum standard for written examinations is 70% (which can be waived). Standards for
performance measurement are indicated in the objective and delineated on the individual progress checklist.
Instructor assistance is provided as needed during the progress check and students may be required to repeat all
or part of the behavior until satisfactory performance is attained.

1.3. Proficiency Level. Behavior statements are taught at the analysis, evaluation, and application levels.
Prerequisites for course attendance support or augment training provided in the medical materiel supervisor’s
course.




                                                         42
Section C - Support Materials

1. Training Platforms (TPs). There may be certain opportunities to be assigned to duties in a specific area that
requires other than the normal medical materiel formal training and the following training platforms will assist
in 4A1X1 progression.

1.2. Readiness Skills Verification Program. AFI 41-106, Medical Readiness Program Management, is the
source for the program. All required training elements for RSV program can be found at this website
https://kx.afms.mil/GlobalMedSupTngEx.

1.3. Global Transportation Network (GTN). This website, https://www.igc.ustranscom.mil/igc/, is the first step
for access to U.S. Transportation Commands (USTRANSCOM) GTN. It gives its customers located anywhere
in the world a seamless, near-real-time capability to access – and employ – transportation and deployment
information. GTN is an automated command and control information system that supports the family of
transportation users and providers, both Department of Defense (DoD) and commercial, by providing an
integrated system of in-transit visibility information and command and control capabilities. GTN collects and
integrates transportation information from selected transportation systems. The resulting information is
provided to the National Command Authorities, Combatant Commanders, USTRANSCOM, its component
commands and other DoD customers to support transportation planning and decision-making during peace and
war. In keeping with modern technology, GTN is available for those how have requested and obtained a login/
password. It is vital for members deploying to register for access to GTN far in advance of their movement and
use the tutorial provided under the “Schoolhouse” icon in order to assist their follow-up procedures.

1.4. Electronic Catalog (ECAT). This website, https://www.medical.dla.mil/Portal/, offers a "Total
Catalog/Total Delivered Price" program offering laboratory, dental, and optical products. ECAT also supports
special committed volume pricing, enabling individual customer’s access to tier pricing and deep unit price
discounts based on volume or other considerations such as standardizing on one brand of products. ECAT
provides paperless contracting, electronic ordering, electronic invoicing, and electronic payments.

1.5. Patient Movement Item (PMI). The objective of the PMI program is to sustain patient movement through
the aeromedical evacuation (AE) system without diminishing the capability of forward medical units. The PMI
program manages all PMI assets and provides sufficient assets to sustain AE operations or provide for in-kind
exchange when PMI accompanies a patient in the AE system. The Joint Readiness Clinical Advisory Board has
identified certain core PMI that are critical to patient care, must be certified for AE operations, and are to be
managed under this program. Medical materiel teams will manage PMI equipment, supplies, accountability and
acquisition of required materiel, and facilitate equipment recycling, scanning, and tracking in the Patient
Movement Items Tracking System (PMITS). PMITS is a system of systems under DMLSS for non-theater sites
and under Theater Medical Information Program-Joint for theater sites. Use of PMITS is mandatory for PMI
asset visibility and tracking. It allows proactive support for deployed organizations. PMITS training website is
a follows https://mhslearn.csd.disa.mil/ilearn/en/learner/mhs/portal/home.jsp. To view: select MHS staff
training, login, and search the course catalog for PMITS overview and basics training. All PMI Center, AE and
Critical Care Air Transport Team personnel are required to complete PMITS training and forward their training
certificate to amcpmicert@us.af.mil.

1.6. Logistics Module (LOGMOD). LOGMOD is a software application used by logistics planners at all Air
Force, Air Force Reserve, and Air National Guard levels to conduct deployment deliberate planning and crisis
action execution. The system allows easier management of Standard Unit Type Code (UTC) Logistics Details.
It assembles Contingency Plan equipment requirements, provides personnel readiness/immunizations tracking
capability, assigns personnel to deployment taskings, and provides deployment scheduling and monitoring
capabilities.

                                                       43
1.7. US Army Medical Materiel Center - Europe (USAMMCE). This entity provides the Medical Logistics
Support as the U.S. European Command’s Single Integrated Medical Logistics Manager (SIMLM) for the
Military Health Care System and out of Sector Support to the Department of State and Humanitarian Assistance
Program; and the U.S. Central Command in Southwest Asia. USAMMCE’s webpage provides information on
returning expired and excess medical supplies, electronic Reports of Discrepancies, requesting hazardous
material, requesting and returning Medical Nuclear, Biological, & Chemical Defense Materiel, New Item
Request processing, and much more.

1.8. Directorate of Medical Materiel Online (DMMONLINE). As part of the Defense Supply Center,
Philadelphia, the DMMONLINE is a complete service center for everything in Medical Materiel. This website,
https://www.medical.dla.mil/Portal/, includes information related to Pharmaceutical and Medical/Surgical
purchases, medical equipment, and readiness related topics. The Customer Service area contains on-line forms
such as Requisitions, Report of Discrepancy, Materiel Complaints and DEA receipt verification. Training on
ECAT, the Medical Readiness Plan, Prime Vendor and Product Standardization can be found at this website.

1.9. Air Force Medical Logistics (AFML). The virtual foundation of Medical Logistics, the AFML website
offers the full spectrum of information and guidance pertaining to all aspects of logistics management. Key
areas are focused on 1) Policy (AFIs, Getting Started in Medical Logistics, Business Plan, Policy Letters), 2)
Resource Management (Air Force Working Capital Fund, Other Procurement Programs (OP), Real Property
Maintenance, Central Contracts), 3) Readiness (Assembly Management, Anthrax Vaccine Program, Central
Procurement, Expeditionary Medical Logistics), 4) Clinical Engineering (Facility Management, Clinical
Equipment, Clinical Technology Assessment and Review, Medical Technology Integration and Support), 5)
Business Analysis , (Production Plan, Requisition Priorities and Force Activity Designators, War Reserve
Materiel Spend Plan), 6) Procurement, Stock Management (Shelf Life Extension Program, Excess/ Tri-Service
Medical Excess Distribution System, Quality Assurance, Vaccine Programs, Supply Discrepancy Report), 7)
Systems (MEDLOG, DMLSS, JMAR), and a full scale menu of Career Field Manager (Career Corner)
informational items pertaining to education and training of the Air Force Specialty. Additionally, career field
personnel can be located through the Air Force Medical Logistics Bluebook (contact directory) as well as
keeping abreast of current workshops afforded to Medical Logistics. The AFML website is located at
https://medlog.detrick.af.mil/index.cfm.

1.10. DMLSS. The Joint Medical Logistics Functional Development Center at Ft Detrick, MD, offers training
related to the use of the DMLSS computer system. Training topics are continually evolving and includes
training on DMLSS versions 2.X, 3.X, Instructional Design, and service specific training modules.
Additionally, the e-Learning center offers computer-based training on a variety of topics. The DMLSS Training
websites are located on the AFML webpage.

1.11. Materiel Safety Data Sheets (MSDS). MSDSs are designed to provide both workers and emergency
personnel with the proper procedures for handling or working with a particular substance. MSDSs include
information such as physical data, (melting or boiling point flash point etc.), toxicity, health effects, first aid,
reactivity, storage, disposal, protective equipment, and spill/leak procedures. MSDSs can be obtained from
manufacturers, distributors etc. More than a million MSDSs can be downloaded from the following website:
https://www.msds.com/index.asp.

1.12. Hazardous Materials Information System (HMIS). HMIS is a subsection of the Department of
Transportation Hazardous Materials Safety website at http://hazmat.dot.gov/hazhome.htm. The HMIS portion
of this site provides additional data on federal, state and local governmental agencies that are responsible for the
safety of hazardous materials transportation. This site goes into specific information related to incidents,
exemptions, interpretations, approval, compliance and registration. HMIS information may be viewed at
http://hazmat.dot.gov/abhmis.htm.

                                                          44
1.13. U.S. Bank Access Online. Mandatory software application for all government-wide purchase card holders
and approving officials to use to reconcile charges against authorized purchases. Contact local Base Contracting
Offices for training information. The link to the website is https://access.usbank.com.

1.14. Occupation Safety Health Administration (OSHA). Safety is important in all aspects of Medical Materiel
daily operations. Air Force safety standards are parallel with OSHA, which makes this training website
http://www.free-training.com/osha/Soshamenu.htm a great tool for supervisors.

1.15. International Health Specialist (IHS). This website https://kx.afms.mil/afihs provides the latest
information and tools on the IHS program. The IHS program was developed by the Air Force Medical Service
to support the DoD's Joint Vision, which states that today's joint force must be prepared to operate with
multinational forces, governmental and non-governmental agencies, as well as international organizations. The
IHS program helps identify those with language, cultural, and/or geopolitical skills, and provides a database of
medics with capabilities tailor-made for specific missions. It consists of officer/enlisted members who fulfill
IHS duties on a full time basis and also those who have elected to be included in a database pool from which
members are selected or to augment specific IHS missions. IHS personnel are expected to be or to become
proficient in a second language and to become knowledgeable of the political, military, economic, medical and
cultural aspects of the country/region associated with their second language. In addition to becoming an expert
in their area of responsibility and establishing host nation relationships, IHS personnel play a pivotal role in
supporting medical planning operations and deployment execution. IHS members are eligible to participate in
the Rosetta Stone (www.rosettastone.com) online language-learning center to assist in becoming more proficient
in one of 20 languages offered. An IHS Special Experience Identifier is awarded to those who have met
necessary criteria.




                                                      45
Section D - Training Course Index

1. Purpose. This section identifies training courses available for the specialty.

1.1. Air Force In-Residence Courses.

COURSE NUMBER             TITLE                          DURATION           LOCATION
L8ABJ4A131 00AA           Medical Materiel               25 days            METC – Ft Sam Houston, TX
                          Apprentice Course
J3AZR4A171 00AA           Medical Logistics              16 days            METC – Ft Sam Houston, TX
                          Supervisors Course
E6AJI3S251-000            Air Force Trainers Course      16.5 Hours         Local Area Base

YNCOAxxx                  Air Force                      6 Weeks            Local Area Base
                          Noncommissioned
                          Officers Academy

MAFSNCOA100               Air Force Senior               6.5 Weeks          Gunter Annex, AL
                          Noncommissioned
                          Officers Academy
ANGC EMEDS                Expeditionary Medical          5 days             Camp Bullis, TX
                          Support Course (Basic)
L3OZJ4XXX 00BA            Medical Readiness              10 days            METC – Ft Sam Houston, TX
                          Management Course
L5OZO4XXX 08AA            Medical Facilities             10 days            METC – Ft Sam Houston, TX
                          Management *Requires
                          waiver for 4A1X1s to
                          attend
L3ORP4XXX 00PA            Aeromedical Evacuation         5 days             Camp Bullis, TX
                          Contingency Operations
                          Training (AECOT) Course

1.2. Air Force Career Development Academy (AFCDA) Courses.

COURSE NUMBER                                                TITLE
CDC 4A151                                                    Medical Materiel Journeyman

CDC 4A171                                                    Medical Materiel Craftsman

00001                                                        Airman Leadership School Associate Program
                                                             (Reserve and Guard only)

00009                                                        Air Force Noncommissioned Officer Academy
                                                             (Reserve and Guard only)

00014                                                        Air Force Senior Noncommissioned Officers
                                                             Academy Correspondence Course

1.3. Other. MAJCOM, Forward Operating Agency, and/or training courses specifically for AETC instructors
and CDC writers.

                                                        46
COURSE NUMBER                      TITLE                                   LOCATION

L3AIRTXXXX-0B2B                    Basic Instructor Course                 JBSA-Lackland, TX


J4AIP3S2X1-DF3A                    Technical Writer Principles             Hill AFB, UT


L3AIRTXXXX-0D3A                    Training Development                    JBSA-Lackland, TX




NOTE: For information on courses listed in this index, refer to the ETCA website https://etca.randolph.af.mil.
For in-residence courses and AFCDA catalog for non-resident courses, refer to the following websites:
http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl and http://www.au.af.mil/au/catalogs.asp.

1.4. Exportable Courses. (There are no exportable courses at this time.)




                                                       47
Section E - MAJCOM-Unique Requirements.

1. Purpose. To provide ARC Medical Materiel apprentices (non-prior service and re-trainees) with an
opportunity to receive the additional training necessary to become proficient in duties identified in the STS as a
core task. This section applies to all 4A1X1 personnel assigned to AFR and ANG medical and aeromedical
evacuation/staging squadrons (referred to, hereafter, as the unit).

2. Qualification. Training requirements:

2.1. Qualification training days are available for ARC Medical Materiel apprentices to satisfactorily initiate and
complete the core task training requirements identified in this STS.

2.2. Upon completion of the Medical Materiel Apprentice Course, all medical materiel apprentices may be
assigned to an active duty Medical Center for up to 90 days (minimum of 30-60 days) to acquire proficiency in
performing the core tasks required to successfully achieve the 5-skill level according to Air Force upgrade
training guidelines.

2.3. For optimal results, this follow-on training should commence immediately following graduation from the
Medical Materiel Apprentice Course.

2.3.1. Advanced planning is required to ensure the apprentice receives QT immediately upon graduating from
the Medical Materiel Apprentice Course. With concurrence from ARC medical unit commander, the section
supervisor, in conjunction with the senior air reserve\health technician, must contact the active duty Medical
Center to arrange follow-on training for the newly assigned 4A131 trainee. This process should also be
coordinated with the Guard\Reserve liaison at Ft Sam Houston, TX. The MTF may recommend the apprentice
receive upgrade training at a qualified AF MTF if extenuating circumstances (i.e., lack of qualified available
staff, committed to supporting contingency operations, etc.) fail to permit the apprentice from receiving the
training at their site. (A qualified MTF is defined as a facility that possesses the time, equipment, and expertise
necessary to train the apprentice on all core tasks as outlined in this STS.) Active duty personnel must ensure
that an experienced supervisor is assigned to assist the apprentice in gaining the desired confidence and
proficiency. The training schedule must be finalized prior to the Medical Materiel Apprentice Course start date.

2.4. The AFR/ANG liaison can be reached at DSN 420-2658. For written correspondence the address is as
follows:

                Air National Guard (or Air Force Reserve) Liaison
                3280 Cpl Johnson Cir, Bldg. 1469
                Ft Sam Houston, TX 78234

2.5. To ensure continuity between resident training and qualification training at the Medical Center, the
apprentice will forward a copy of his or her technical school certificate, AF Form 1256, Certificate of Training
(LRA), to his/her unit of assignment. The individual’s unit of assignment will then initiate upgrade action using
AF Form 2096, Classification/On-The-Job Training Action, to award the 3-skill level and enter the apprentice
in the appropriate training status code.

2.6. An ARC unit may submit a waiver to bypass the above core task training if proficiency/seasoning days are
unavailable or funding constraints limit a unit’s ability to participate. In the case where QT days are
unavailable, the training may be waived until such time that days become available and the apprentice has an
opportunity to train on the core tasks identified in this STS. The waiver package must be sent to: HQ
AFR/ANG Medical Materiel FM and the 4A1X1 AFCFM at Ft Detrick will be notified. The ANG FM phone
number is DSN 261-8577.
                                                           48
Section F - Documentation of Training.

1. Work Center Training Plans. The purpose of this section is to provide guidelines and examples of proper
documentation for the many electronic forms used in training of all enlisted medical personnel. Training
documentation helps to assess readiness capability as well as individual strengths and weaknesses. It also aids
compliance with all The Joint Commission, Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care, and Health
Services Inspections regulatory requirements. The enlisted training documentation has migrated from the hard
copy to electronic AFTR. AFTR is accessible from the Advance Distance Learning Service via the AF Portal.
Refer to your unit training manager (UTM) for the most current policies and guidance on training
documentation.

2. Air Force Training Record. The AFTR is an enterprise-wide custom training management system designed
to replace the paper-based training records system. It is the electronic equivalent of an AF Form 623 and will be
used by career fields within the AFMS to document all training actions. The AFTR allows training plans to be
established by; Career Field/AFSC, duty position/team member, trainee/trainer/certifier, and any group of tasks
that require management, tracking, and documentation. The AFTR components managed by the supervisor are:

2.1. Master Task List (MTL). The MTL is a list containing all the tasks that are to be trained in a work center
and is often broken out by specialty. The MTL consists of the Specialty Training Standard; AF Form 623 Parts
II and III; AF Form 797 and AF Form 1098; and Qualification Training Packages (QTPs). The supervisor
creates the MTL by selecting tasks from the Unit Task List (UTL) produced by the UTM and the STS.

2.2. Master Training Plan (MTP). The MTP is a list containing a schedule of training for all tasks within a
particular duty position. The MTP consists of the STS; 623 Parts II and III; AF Force Forms 797 and 1098
tasks; and QTPs. The supervisor creates the MTP by assigning training times and methods to tasks in the duty
position. Refer to AFI 36-2201 and AFH 36-2235, Volume 11, Information for Designers of Instructional
Systems Application to Unit Training, for guidance in developing the MTP.

2.3. Duty Task List (DTL). The DTL is a list containing all the tasks to be trained on in a duty position. The
DTL consists of the STS; AF Form 623 Parts II and III; AF Force Forms 797 and 1098 tasks; and QTPs. The
supervisor creates the DTL by selecting tasks from the MTL.

2.4. Individual Training Record (ITR). All training is documented in the ITR. This is the electronic version of
the former Enlisted Training and Competency Folder. The ITR is made up of the AF Form 623 Parts I, II and
III; AF Forms 623a, 797, 803 and 1098; QTPs and the JQS. This record is automatically populated based upon
the duty position the individual is assigned to. Refer to AFI 36-2201 for guidance in documenting training on
the various forms contained within the ITR. Maintenance of the CFETP is mandatory for all assigned MSgts
and below.

2.4.1. The AFTR provides the capability to incorporate training source documents and/or to manually enter
completed training into the ITR. The following documents will be incorporated into the ITR:

2.4.1.1. The member’s initial MTF and clinic orientation checklists.

2.4.1.2. Recurrent training such as Basic Life Support and Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act.

2.4.1.3. AF Form 2096

2.4.1.4. Medical Education & Training Campus (METC) Student Training Report (STR). METC STR
documents the level of success, strengths, and weaknesses that a student demonstrated during technical school.
                                                      49
It is emailed to the base training manager shortly after the graduate arrives at his/her duty station. This form is
maintained in the record until 5-skill level upgrade training is complete.

2.4.1.5 AF Form 803, Report of Task Evaluation. AF Form 803 is used to conduct and document completion
of task evaluations during training staff assisted visits, when directed by the commander, or when a task
certification requires validation.

2.4.1.6. Other forms as appropriate.

3. Documentation of Training. The purpose of this section is to provide guidelines and examples of proper
documentation on the many forms used in training medical materiel personnel. Training documentation helps to
assess mission capability and readiness, individual strengths and weaknesses, resources needed to support
quality patient care, and defines requirements for individual career progression.

3.1. AF Form 797. The AF Form 797 (Figure 3.1) will be used to record training for tasks that are not
otherwise documented in the CFETP.

                        JOB QUALIFICATION STANDARD CONTINUATION/COMMAND JQS
                                                                   CERTIFICATION
TASK NUMBER




                                                                            MAJCOM




                                                                                                                 COMPLETION
                                                                     START DATE

                                                                                  CERTIFYING
                                                                            DIRECTED




                                                                                  OFFICIIAL’S


                                                                                                TRAINEES
              TASK, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL REFERENCES                      USE ONLY




                                                                                  INITIALS


                                                                                                INITIALS




                                                                                                                 DATE
1   Maintain records for an oversee credit return program
2   Perform Oxygen Purification Test
3   Exchange FEQ Cylinders On the Nitrous Oxide/Nitrogen FEQ
    Bank
TRAINEE NAME DOG, DEPUTY A.
AF FORM 797, AUG 02 (Electronic File) PREVIOUS EDITION IS OBSOLETE

                             Figure 3.1. Sample, AF Form 797 Documentation




                                                         50
3.2. AF Form 1098 (Figure 3.2.). Mandatory training requirements may vary from facility to facility.
At a minimum, these requirements should be reviewed on an annual basis and updated as required.

                      SPECIAL TASK CERTIFICATION AND RECURRING TRAINING
                                                             EVALUATION OF TRAINING
  TASK OR                       SIGNATURE      INITIAL  SCORE   TYPE    FREQUENCY   DUE
RECURRING            DATE           OF           OF       OR                        DATE
 TRAINING          COMPLETED    CERTIFYING    TRAINEE HOURS
    AND                          OFFICIAL
TECHNICAL
REFERENCES
     A                   B.                                 D        E            F           G             H
                                             C
COTR Training        15 Jul 13                                      91                      1 Time
 CPR Training        15 Sep 13                                      P                       Annual        091514
   CMRT              28 Sep 13                                      P                       Annual        092814

NAME OF TRAINEE (Last, First, Middle Initial)         GRADE                     UNIT AND OFFICE SYMBOL
                                                                                MDSS/SGSL
DOO, SCOOBY D.                                   A1C
AF FORM 1098, APR 85 (Electronic File) PREVIOUS EDITION IS OBSOLETE



       Figure 3.2. Sample, Recurring Mandatory Training Documentation (AF Form 1098)


3.3. Qualification Training Progress Records were developed to enhance OJT. It provides the trainer
with a breakdown of task performance skills to aid in performance evaluation. The evaluations of each
task results in either a satisfactory or unsatisfactory score (Figure 3.3).


Rank/Name __________________________________________________________________________

Qualification Upgrade Training to: 5-Skill Level                7-Skill Level


                             PERFORMANCE ITEM                                         SAT         UNSAT
                        STS Task 7.2 - Receiving Procedures
Verify Shipment
Annotate Receiving Documentation
Process Receipt Action in DMLSS
Print Delivery List
Delivery




                     Figure 3.3. Sample, Qualification Training Progress Record



                                                       51
3.4. AF Form 623A (Figures 3.4. thru 3.7.). Use the AF Form 623A available in the AFTR to
document all progress of individual training. Document on AF Form 623A the start and completion
dates of unit orientation, and reference the date of the orientation checklist. In addition, document the
member’s entry into upgrade training, initial evaluation results, and periodic evaluations of training
progress to include CDC progress. Information on extensions, waiver requests, or breaks in training
should be clearly documented. Document on the AF Form 623A any decertification proceedings,
including dates, reasons for decertification, and other applicable information. Accomplish an initial
evaluation when a new person arrives to the unit or when an individual changes duty positions.
Document all other actions pertaining to training IAW AFI-36-2201.

                                          ON - THE - JOB TRAINING RECORD
                                                CONTINUATION SHEET
28 July 2013
A1C Scooby D. Doo is assigned to the Medical Logistics Flight on this date. I have been assigned as his trainer and will
orient A1C Scooby D. Doo to the Flight and Squadron using the Medical Logistics Flight and Medical Support Squadron
orientation checklists located in the Master Training Plan. An initial interview was accomplished on this date. A1C
Scooby D. Doo is looking forward to working in Medical Logistics. He is enthusiastic and prepared to accept all
challenges. He understands that he must question his trainers if uncertain of training provided.

Scooby D. Doo, A1C, USAF                          Deputy A. Dog, MSgt, USAF
Medical Materiel Journeyman                       NCOIC, Inventory Management

27 Aug 2013
A mid-orientation progress check was accomplished on this date. A1C Scooby D. Dog has progressed through the flight
and squadron orientation with little to no difficulty. He is almost finished with the Medical Group orientation. He
completed reviews of Operating Instructions for the Medical Logistics Flight and the Medical Support Squadron. He has
received his CDCs and is aware that he should complete all four volumes in 6 months or less.

Scooby D. Dog, USAF                                Deputy A. Dog, MSgt, USAF
Medical Materiel Journeyman                        NCOIC, Inventory Management

30 Sep 2013
A1C Scooby D. Doo has completed all training on the orientation requirements for the flight, squadron, and medical group.
A review of the checklists with A1C Scooby D. Doo indicates he is knowledgeable of all items discussed. A1C Scooby D.
Doo stated that he feels comfortable with the training provided and believes he is ready to be released from orientation.
A1C Scooby D. Doo has been released from orientation on this date. He has also completed CDC Volumes 1 and 2.

Scooby D. Doo, A1C, USAF                           Deputy A. Dog, MSgt, USAF
Medical Materiel Journeyman                        NCOIC, Inventory Management

______________________________________________________________________________________
LAST NAME FIRST NAME MIDDLE INITIAL
Doo, Scooby D.

AF FORM 623A, MAR 79 (IMT-V1) or (EF -V2)            PREVIOUS EDITION WILL BE USED

                              Figure 3.4. Sample, Orientation Documentation




                                                            52
                                     ON - THE - JOB TRAINING RECORD
                                           CONTINUATION SHEET
                                                 INITIAL BRIEFING
                                                (Trainee Orientation)

_________________________was briefed on the On-The-Job Training (OJT) program and how he/she fits into
the program while in upgrade training (UGT). Upgrade training was explained as a dual-channel process
designed to qualify an airman for skill level upgrade. Dual-channel OJT is a systematic reportable application of
self-study and the craftsman/apprentice principal. Trainees acquire job qualification while performing on the job
under supervision. This combination of knowledge and job position qualification constitutes the dual-channel
concept.

Requirements from AFI 36-2101 and 36-2201 were discussed. AF Forms 623, 623A, 797, 2096, and the CFETP,
STS/JQS or automated JQS, which serve to make up the individual training record, were explained.
Responsibilities of the commander, base training, unit education and training manager, immediate supervisor,
trainer, and trainee were discussed. The career development course (CDC) was briefly discussed and will be
explained in detail when the CDC arrives, if applicable.

Requirements for upgrade in AFSC 4A1X1 are: (1) satisfactory completion of CDC 4A1X1 (CDCs should be
completed in six months or less to enhance test passing opportunity); (2) supervisor’s or Task Certifier’s
certification of job qualifications with adequate hands on training; and (3) supervisor’s recommendation for
upgrade.

Personnel in grades E-1 through E-6 (and SNCOs in retraining status) have AF Form 623 and CFETP or JQS.
The CFETP or JQS may contain 100 or more separate tasks, but it should be annotated to show only those tasks
the airman is required to perform in the current duty position; mandatory requirements in AFI 36-2101 for
upgrade, and core task requirements. The supervisor and trainee will initial appropriate areas in the JQS to certify
training is complete. In the CFETP, the trainer, trainee, and certifier will initial appropriate areas when training is
completed. After upgrade the CFETP or JQS will continue to be used to document further qualification training.


______________________________               ______________________________                ________
SUPERVISOR'S SIGNATURE                           TRAINEE'S SIGNATURE                        DATE


______________________________________________________________________________________
LAST NAME               FIRST NAME               MIDDLE INITIAL
 AF FORM 623A, MAR 79 (IMT-V1) or (EF -V2)     PREVIOUS EDITION WILL BE USED




                            Figure 3.5. Sample, Initial Upgrade Training Brief




                                                          53
                                     ON - THE - JOB TRAINING RECORD
                                           CONTINUATION SHEET
                        TRAINEE'S RESPONSIBILITIES DURING UPGRADE TRAINING (UGT)

1. Read and understand your Air Force Specialty (AFS) description, training requirements, objectives, and training record.

2. Budget time (on- and off-duty) for timely completion of CDCs and keep all CDC materials for future reference and
study.

3. Attain and maintain qualification in your assigned AFS.

4. After CDC briefing trainee will do the following: (Read and initial)

______ a. Read "Your Key to a Successful Course" provided with your CDCs (yellow pamphlet).

______ b. Make all required course corrections and return entire package to your supervisor.

______ c. When you are issued your first volume you will read and study the volume, chapter, and answer the
self-test questions and the unit review exercises (URE). Self-test questions will be answered in the space provided. Ensure
you highlight/reference where answers are found as determined by your supervisor.
______ d. Supervisor will check unit review exercises and self-test questions for accuracy and completeness.
This will be accomplished at the completion of each Unit. You should be meeting with your trainer a minimum of once a
week to review progress, score UREs, and discuss the material in the unit. You will correct any errors.
______ e. Supervisor issues the AFCDA Form 34 (Field-Scoring Answer Sheet) (formally ECI Form 34) for
you to transcribe your answers from the URE. These exercises are teaching devices and must be administered as open book
exercises. All scores of less than 100 percent require review training.
______ f. Minimum acceptable training consists of correcting incorrect responses, reading the appropriate area
from which the question was taken, and a verbal question and answer session.
______ g. Your supervisor issues your next volume. You will work all volumes in the same manner as above
for the entire course.
______ h. Upon completion of your last volume, you and your supervisor will immediately start a
comprehensive review of the entire CDC in preparation for your course examination.

5. Review and discuss CDCs with supervisor/trainer at a minimum of once a week. Provide input on your training and ask
questions. You should complete your CDCs in six months or less. Working at a volume per month will significantly
increase your chances to pass the end of course exam.

6. Upon satisfactory completion of your career knowledge training, position qualification, and mandatory
requirements listed in AFMAN 36-2101, your supervisor will initiate upgrade action.

___________________________                  ______________________________                    ___________
SUPERVISOR'S SIGNATURE                           TRAINEE'S SIGNATURE                           DATE

______________________________________________________________________________________
LAST NAME               FIRST NAME                MIDDLE INITIAL
AF FORM 623A, MAR 79 (IMT-V1) or (EF -V2) PREVIOUS EDITION WILL BE USED



                                 Figure 3.6. Sample, Upgrade Documentation


                                                             54
                                ON - THE - JOB TRAINING RECORD
                                      CONTINUATION SHEET
1 Aug 13

I know where to find a current copy of my job description and performance standards. I have read and
discussed them with my supervisor, and understand my duties and responsibilities. If I have questions or
concerns I will seek assistance from my supervisor.



Scooby D. Doo, AMN, USAF
Medical Materiel Journeyman


1 Sep 13

A1C Scooby D. Doo completed review of his job description and performance standards on this date. I am
confident that he is thoroughly familiar with standards and expectations. At this time A1C Scooby D. Doo has
no questions or concerns.



Deputy A. Dog, MSgt, USAF
OJT Trainer
NCOIC Inventory Management
______________________________________________________________________________________
LAST NAME         FIRST NAME       MIDDLE INITIAL
AF FORM 623A, MAR 79 (IMT-V1) PREVIOUS EDITION WILL BE USED



                                Figure 3.7. Sample, Job Description Review




                                                      55
