DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                          CFETP 2P0X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                                              Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                            12 March 2012




                                          AFSC 2P0X1

  PRECISION MEASUREMENT EQUIPMENT LABORATORY




                           CAREER FIELD EDUCATION

                                 AND TRAINING PLAN


ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                    CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
            PRECISION MEASUREMENT EQUIPMENT LABORATORY SPECIALTY
                                   AFSC 2P0X1


                                                         TABLE OF CONTENTS

PART I

Preface ................................................................................................................................................... 4

Abbreviations/Terms Explained............................................................................................................ 5

Section A, General Information ............................................................................................................ 5
    Purpose of the CFETP
    Use of the CFETP
    Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B, Career Field Progression and Information ........................................................................ 10
    Specialty Descriptions
    Skill/Career Progression
        Apprentice Level (3)
        Journeyman Level (5)
        Craftsman Level (7)
        Superintendent Level (9)
    Training Decisions
    Community College of the Air Force
    Career Field Path

Section C, Skill Level Training Requirements ................................................................................... 17
    Purpose
    Specialty Qualification Requirements
       Apprentice Level (3)
       Journeyman Level (5)
       Craftsman Level (7)
       Superintendent Level (9)

Section D, Resource Constraints ......................................................................................................... 21

Section E, Transitional Training Guide............................................................................................... 21




                                                                             2
PART II

Section A, Specialty Training Standard (STS) ................................................................................... 27

Section B, Electronic Principles Course Training Standard (CTS) .................................................... 75

Section C, Course Objective List ........................................................................................................ 78

Section D, Support Materials .............................................................................................................. 88

Section E, Training Course Index ....................................................................................................... 89

Section F, MAJCOM Unique Requirements ...................................................................................... 90




___________________________________________________________________________
OPR: 335 TRS/TRR
Certified by: CMSgt Craig A. Niemann AFCFM (WR-ALC/ENHQ (AFMETCAL))
Number of pages: 91
Supersedes: CFETP 2P0X1, dated 31 July 2008




                                                                      3
                CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
        PRECISION MEASUREMENT EQUIPMENT LABORATORY SPECIALTY
                               AFSC 2P0X1


PART I

PREFACE

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) for AFSC 2P0X1 Precision
Measurement Equipment Laboratory (PMEL) Specialty, is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for this specialty. The CFETP will provide
personnel a clear career path to success and instills rigor in all aspects of career field training.
Information is available at AF/A4MM web page:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-LG-AF-35
Note: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty position
qualification training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts. Supervisors to will use both parts to plan, manage, and
control training. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty
receive effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan will
enable us to train today’s work force for tomorrow’s jobs.

2.1 Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C
associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, training, and other).
Section D indicates resource constraints to accomplishing this plan, such as funds, manpower,
equipment, and facilities. Section E identifies transition training guide requirements for SSgt
through MSgt.

2.2 Part II identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and includes duties, tasks, technical
references to support training; Air Education and Training Command (AETC) conducted
training, wartime course/core task and correspondence course requirements. Part II includes the
following: Section A contains the course objective list and training standards supervisors will
use to determine if Airmen have satisfied training requirements. Section B contains the course
objective list and the levels they are trained too in the Electronic Principles Course. Section C
lists all of the training objectives for the PMEL apprentice course. Section D identifies the
applicable support materials. Section E identifies a training course index that supervisors can use
to determine if resources are available to support training. Included here are both mandatory and
optional courses. Section F identifies MAJCOM unique training requirements supervisors can
use to determine additional training required for the associated qualification needs. At unit level,
supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate
with the overall goals of this plan.




                                                   4
ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training (AT). Formal course, which provides individuals who are qualified in their
Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance their expertise in the
career field. Training is for selected career Airmen at the advanced level of an AFS.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a
particular job type or duty position. Supervisors use the AFJQS to document task qualifications.
The tasks of AFJQS are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Bridge Course. A formal or informal course, which allows the individual to expand their
knowledge in another area of expertise.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive,
multipurpose document covering the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field.
It outlines a logical growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career
field training identifiable, to eliminate duplication, and to ensure this training is budget
defensible.

Certification. A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required
standards.

Certification Official. A person authorized by appropriate commander to determine an
individual’s ability to perform a task to required standards.

Continuation Training. This is additional training that exceeds minimum upgrade requirements
and has an emphasis on present or future duty assignments.

Core Task. Tasks that the Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) identifies as minimum
qualification requirements within an Air Force Specialty. Only a percentage of critical tasks for
each system are listed as mandatory core tasks. This gives units needed flexibility to manage
their workforce training. Core tasks identified with */R are optional for ANG and AFRC.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication identifying the tasks and knowledge
requirements, and respective standards provided to achieve a 3-, -5-, and 7-level in this career
field. Supervisors use the COL to assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with
AFI 36-2201, Developing, Managing and Conducting Military Training Programs.

Course Training Standard (CTS). A formal course document that identifies in board terms the
training members will receive in a specific course.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video,
or other necessary means to supplement training.




                                                5
Go/No Go Level. In OJT, the stage at which an individual has gained enough skill, knowledge
and experience to either be qualified to perform an identified task without assistance, or not.

Field Technical Training (Type 4). Special or regular on-site training conducted by a training
detachment (TD) or by a mobile training team (MTT).

Initial Skills Training. A formal school course that results in the award of a 3-skill level AFSC.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly process for developing,
validating, and reviewing instructional programs that ensures personnel are taught the knowledge
and skills essential for successful job performance.

Maintenance Information System (MIS). Systems and applications that support and enable
maintenance business processes. Used to document maintenance actions. Provides maintenance
supervisors with products to evaluate organizational effectiveness and to aid in decision-making
processes at all levels.

Maintenance Supply Liaison (MSL). Monitors overall maintenance and supply interface,
resolves supply support problems, and coordinates supply-related training needs.

Master Task Listing (MTL). Document maintained within the workcenter that identifies all
tasks performed in a workcenter. This includes core, critical position qualification and wartime
tasks. This document can be automated.

Master Training Plan (MTP). A comprehensive workcenter training plan that may include
MTLs QTPs, AFJQS, CFETP, task breakdowns, commercial publications and any other
document that supports training.

Mobile Training Team (MTT). Instructors, trainers, training aids and operational equipment
that formal schools send to bases or operating locations used to perform formal training.

Occupational Survey Report (OSR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational
survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training at the duty location used to
certify personnel for both skill level upgrade and duty position qualification.

Position Qualification Training. Training designed to qualify an Airman in a specific position
and is accomplished after upgrade training.

Proficiency Training. Additional training either in residence or exportable advanced training
courses, or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge
beyond the minimum required for upgrade.




                                                6
Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an
Airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the
upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skill/knowledge training
required to do the job.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional course designed for use at the unit to
qualify or aid qualification in a duty position or program or on a piece of equipment. It may be
printed, computer based, or in other audiovisual media.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, or
equipment that preclude desired training from being accomplished.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force
Specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge an Airman may be expected to perform or to know on
the job. It serves as a contract between AETC and the functional user to show which of the
overall training requirements for an AFSC are taught in formal schools, Career Development
Courses, and exportable courses.

Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or abstract concept, established and defined by
authority, custom, or common consent, to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring
quantities or qualities. Standards are used to establish practices or procedures and to evaluate
results.

Supplemental Training. Formal, standardized training within an AFS that is in addition to
required initial skills training and skill level upgrade training. It may support new/newly
assigned equipment, methods, and/or technology.

Task Certifier. See Certification Official

Training Business Area (TBA) – is a Net-Centric, GCSS-AF IF Web-Based application
providing Air Force Warfighters with global, real-time visibility into the technical qualifications,
certifications and training status of logistics, communications and information professionals Air
Force wide. TBA supports base, wing and work center level training management activities by
automating training management business processes. The primary users of TBA will be any
personnel directly involved in base level training management and certification activities. TBA is
being developed and maintained by 754th Electronic Systems Group, Installation and Logistics,
Maintenance Flight (754 ELSG/ILM) at Maxwell-Gunter AFB.

Training Detachment (TD). An AETC detachment that provides maintenance oriented
technical training, at an operational location, on specific systems and their aerospace ground
equipment. A TD aims to qualify personnel on new equipment or in new techniques and
procedures, maintain proficiency and increase skill and knowledge, acquaint personnel with
specific systems, and keep personnel aware of changing concepts and requirements.

Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-
the-job, field training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.).




                                                 7
Upgrade Training (UGT). A mixture of mandatory courses, task qualification, QTPs, and
CDCs required for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, or 9-skill levels.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum, co-chaired by the AF Career Field
Manager and Training Pipeline Manager and AETC Training Pipeline Manager consisting of
MAJCOM Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) functional managers, Subject Matter Experts
(SMEs), and AETC training personnel that determines career ladder training requirements.

SECTION A - GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Purpose. This CFETP provides information necessary for the Air Force Career Field
Manager (AFCFM), MAJCOM functional managers (MFMs), commanders, training managers,
supervisors and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective career field training
program. This plan outlines the training that individuals in AFSC 2P0X1 should receive in order
to develop and progress throughout their career. This plan identifies initial skills, upgrade,
qualification, advanced, and proficiency training. Initial skills training is the AFS specific
training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon retraining into this specialty
for award of the 3-skill level. Normally, this training is conducted by AETC at one of the
technical training centers. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification
requirements, and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, 9-
skill levels. Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to
qualify an Airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after
the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills/knowledge
required to do the job. Advanced training is formal specialty training used for selected Airmen.
Proficiency training is additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training
courses, or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge
beyond the minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP has several purposes, some are:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field training
program. Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an
individual's career.

1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.

1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and the
training delivery method.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired career
field training process.

2. Uses. The plan will be used by the AFCFM, MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure
comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.




                                                  8
2.1. AETC training personnel will develop/revise formal resident, non-resident, field and
exportable training based on requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of
the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining
resources needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial,
upgrade, and proficiency requirements. Identified requirements can be satisfied by OJT, resident
training, contract training, or exportable courses. MAJCOM developed training to support this
AFSC must be identified for inclusion into this plan.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan.
The lists of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority. Also, the AFCFM will
initiate an annual review of this document to ensure currency and accuracy. MAJCOM
representatives and AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field
training requirements. Using the list of courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.
Applicable inputs/changes to this CFETP will be routed to AFMETCAL, 813 Irving-Wick Drive
W. Bldg 2, Heath OH, 43056-1199.




                                                 9
SECTION B - CAREER PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION

1. Specialty Description.

1.1. Specialty Summary: Refer to the Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory.

1.2. Duties and Responsibilities.

1.2.1. Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory Apprentice and Journeyman:
Inspects, aligns, troubleshoots, and repairs PMEL standards, common and weapon system
peculiar test, measurement, and diagnostic equipment (TMDE). Inspects TMDE for preventive
maintenance, cleanliness, and safety requirements. Performs equipment maintenance using
theories of operation, block diagrams, schematics, logic trees, and software diagnostics. Isolates
malfunctions to component level. Calibrates and certifies TMDE to technical data specifications
ensuring traceability to Air Force Reference Standards. Records and reports maintenance data;
prepares technical order improvement reports, special training requests, training quality reports,
and modification proposals. Tracks equipment warranties. Provides training and manages
technical order distributions. Handles, labels, and disposes of hazardous materials and waste
according to environmental standards.

1.2.2. Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory Craftsman: In addition to
Journeyman duties and responsibilities, plans, organizes, and coordinates mission support
requirements. Collects and analyzes maintenance data and performs trend analysis. Identifies
mission essential TMDE and its impact on workload. Coordinates lateral support, command
certification, or contract services. Evaluates procedures for storage, inventory, and inspection of
property. Provides training and assistance to TMDE users. Maintains PMEL automated
management systems (PAMS).

1.2.3. Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory Superintendent: In addition to
Craftsman duties and responsibilities, develops and evaluates workload plans, budget, and
support agreements. Manages PMEL quality program (QP) and management system (MS).
Submits reports to higher headquarters, maintains a safe working environment, and ensures
laboratory certification.

2. Skill and Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the
apprentice to the superintendent skill level play an extremely important role in the Air Force's
ability to accomplish its mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training do their part to
plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this
part of the CFETP will ensure individuals receive viable training at appropriate points in their
careers. The following narrative and the AFSC 2P0X1 Career Development Flow Charts
identify the career skill progression.

2.1. Apprentice (3-Level): Upon completion of initial skills training, trainees will work with
trainers to enhance their knowledge and skills. They will utilize the Career Development Course
(CDC) and Task Qualification Training to progress in their career field.




                                                 10
2.2. Journeyman (5-Level): Once upgraded to the 5-level, journeymen enter into continuation
training to broaden their experience base. Five-levels may be assigned job positions such as
quality assurance, task trainer and certifier, and various staff positions. Five-levels will complete
supplemental courses, exportable courses, and MAJCOM specific training as required.
Individuals will be eligible to attend the Airman Leadership School (ALS) as a SrA with 48
months time in service or when selected for promotion to SSgt. Individuals will use their CDCs
and other study references to prepare for testing under the Weighted Airman Promotion System
(WAPS). They should also consider continuing their education by working towards a
Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) degree.

2.3. Craftsman (7-Level): Craftsmen can expect to fill various supervisory and management
positions such as shift leader, element chief, and task certifier. They may also be assigned to
work in staff positions. Seven-levels should take courses to obtain added knowledge on
management of resources and personnel. Continued academic education through CCAF and
higher degree programs is encouraged. When promoted to TSgt, individuals will attend the
Noncommissioned Officer Academy.

2.4. Superintendent (9-Level): A 9-level can be expected to fill positions such as flight chief,
production supervisor and various staff NCOIC jobs. Additional training in the areas of budget,
manpower, resources, and personnel management should be pursued through continuing
education. Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy attendance is mandatory for promotion
to SMSgt. Additional higher education and completion of courses outside their career AFSC are
also recommended.

3. Training Decisions. The CFETP was developed using a building block approach (simple to
complex) to encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Precision
Measurement Equipment Laboratory Career Field. The spectrum includes a strategy for when,
where, and how to meet these training requirements. The strategy must be apparent and
affordable to reduce duplication of training and eliminate a disjointed approach to training. The
following training decisions were made at the career field U&TW held at Keesler AFB, 18 – 22
April 2011:

3.1. Initial Skills Training. A decision was made to revise the resident course. Major changes
included the addition of the following training items: The use of the Air Force Calibration
Viewer (AFCAV), Metric/English unit conversions, and Pressure conversions. Once the
appropriate equipment is procured, the use and calibration of digitizing oscilloscopes will be
added. The required level of training was changed on four objectives to better reflect the level of
training required by the field at this skill level. There were no elements of training deleted
during this U&TW.

3.2. Five-Level Upgrade Training Requirements. The 5-level CDC was revised to update
equipment and procedures to reflect what is actually in use in the field. Additionally, a few tasks
were realigned from the 7-level to 5-level CDCs to better agree with normal career field
progression.




                                                 11
3.3. Seven-Level Upgrade Training Requirements. The 7-level CDC was updated to reflect
changes in equipment and procedures taking place in the field. The Process Review will be also
be added to the 7-level CDC.

3.4. Proficiency Training. Any additional knowledge and skill requirements not identified as
initial skills or upgrade training were assigned to the Continuation Training Program. The
purpose of continuation training is to provide additional training that exceeds minimum training
requirements. The training program will identify both mandatory and optional training
requirements. Emphasis is on present and future duty positions.

4. Higher Education and Advanced Certification Opportunities. Higher education and
advanced certification is a personal choice that is encouraged for the professional development
of the entire Enlisted Force. Listed below are some current opportunities:

4.1. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Academic Programs. Enrollment in
CCAF occurs upon completion of basic military training (BMT). CCAF provides the
opportunity to obtain an Associates in Applied Sciences Degree.

4.1.1. Degree Requirements: All Airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program.
Prior to completing an associate degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the following
requirements must be met:

                                                                                                               Semester Hours
Technical Education..................................................................................................24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies .........................................................6
Physical Education ......................................................................................................4
General Education .....................................................................................................15
Program Elective .......................................................................................................15
     Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and Military
     Studies; or General Education
Total ..........................................................................................................................64

4.1.2. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of
Technical Core subjects and courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied
from Technical Core or Technical Elective subjects and courses. Completion of the initial skills
resident training at Keesler AFB satisfies all or part of the technical education requirement.

4.1.3. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Professional
military education and/or civilian management courses.

4.1.4. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of
Basic Military Training.

4.1.5. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement with




                                                                      12
the definitions of applicable General Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF
General Catalog.

4.1.6. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects and courses,
including natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Six semester hours of CCAF
degree-applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied. See
the CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science for this
specialty.

4.2. AETC Instructor. Individuals desiring to become an AETC Instructor should be actively
pursuing an associate's degree. A degreed faculty is necessary for to maintain accreditation
through the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.

4.3. Occupational Instructor Certification. Upon completion of instructor qualification
training, consisting of the instructor methods course and supervised practice teaching, CCAF
instructors who possess an associate’s degree or higher may be nominated by their school
commander and commandant for certification as an occupational instructor.

4.4. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill
certification is awarded for the primary occupational specialty. The College uses a competency
based assessment process for trade skill certification at one of four proficiency levels:
Apprentice, Journeyman, Craftsman/Supervisor, or Master Craftsman/Manager. All are
transcribed on the CCAF transcript.

4.5. Instructor of Technology and Military Science (2IBB). This program applies to CCAF
students with a "T" prefix to their AFSC which identifies them as instructors.

4.6. The Electronic Systems Technology (4VHP). This program applies to AFSC 2P0X1.

5. Career Field Path. The career path is shown in Table 5.1.

5.1. Enlisted Career Path. Table 5.1 identifies career milestones for the 2P0X1 Air Force
Specialty.

Table 5.1. Enlisted Career Path
                                                      GRADE REQUIREMENTS
 EDUCATION AND TRAINING
                                                     Average  Earliest High Year Of
     REQUIREMENTS                        Rank
                                                     Sew-On   Sew-On   Tenure (HYT)
BASIC MILITARY TRAINING
SCHOOL
APPRENTICE TECHNICAL                     Amn          6 months
SCHOOL                                   A1C         16 months
(3-Skill Level)




                                                13
Table 5.1. Enlisted Career Path
                                                         GRADE REQUIREMENTS
 EDUCATION AND TRAINING
                                                       Average   Earliest High Year Of
     REQUIREMENTS                         Rank
                                                       Sew-On    Sew-On   Tenure (HYT)
UPRADE TO JOURNEYMAN                      Amn          6 months
(5-Skill Level).                          A1C         16 months
- Minimum 12 months on-the-job            SrA           3 years 28 months    8 Years
  training.
- Complete all 5-level core tasks.
- Complete appropriate CDC
AIRMAN LEADERSHIP
SCHOOL (ALS)
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time
  in service or be a SSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a
  prerequisite for SSgt sew-on
               TRAINER                                           CERTIFIER
- Qualified and certified to perform     - Be at least a 5-skill level SSgt or civilian equivalent;
  task to be trained.                      and qualified and certified to perform the task being
- Complete the Air Force Training          certified.
  Course (AFTC).                         - Complete the AFTC.
                                         - Be a person other than the trainer.
UPGRADE TO CRAFTSMAN (7-
Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SSgt.
    - Complete all 5- and 7-level core
    tasks on one MDS                      SSgt        7.5 years      3 years           15 Years
- 12 months OJT.
    - Complete appropriate CDC

NONCOMMISSIONED                           TSgt        12.5 years     5 years           20 Years
OFFICER ACADEMY (NCOA)
- Must be a TSgt or TSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a                MSgt        16 years       8 years           24 years
  prerequisite for MSgt sew-on
USAF SENIOR NCO ACADEMY
(SNCOA)
- SMSgt or SMSgt Selectee.
    - A percentage of top non-select
    (for promotion to E-8) MSgt          SMSgt        19.2 years     11 years          26 Years
    attend the SNCOA each year.
- Resident graduation is a
  prerequisite for SMSgt sew-on




                                                 14
Table 5.1. Enlisted Career Path
                                               GRADE REQUIREMENTS
 EDUCATION AND TRAINING
                                              Average  Earliest High Year Of
     REQUIREMENTS                 Rank
                                              Sew-On   Sew-On   Tenure (HYT)
UPGRADE TO
SUPERINTENDENT
(9-Skill Level)                   CMSgt       21.5 years   14 years   30 Years
- Minimum rank of SMSgt.




                                         15
5.2. Education and Training Manager Checklist

Table 5.2. Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist
Requirements for Upgrade to:                                                             Y   N
Journeyman
- Has apprentice completed mandatory CDCs?
- Has apprentice completed all appropriate 5-level core tasks identified in the CFETP?
- Has apprentice completed all other duty position tasks identified by the supervisor?
- Has apprentice completed 12 months training (9 months for retrainees) for award of
  the 5-skill-level?
- Has apprentice met mandatory requirements listed in specialty description, AF
  Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), and CFETP?
- Has apprentice been recommended by their supervisor?

Craftsman
- Has journeyman achieved the rank of SSgt?
- Has journeyman completed mandatory CDCs?
- Has journeyman completed all core tasks identified in the CFETP?
- Has journeyman completed all other duty position tasks identified by the supervisor?
- Has journeyman completed a minimum 12 months (6 months for retrainees) UGT for
  award of the 7-skill level.


TO: Squadron/CC

FROM: Squadron Training Manager

SUBJECT: Upgrade __________________________________________ (Trainee name)

Trainee is prepared to be upgraded and has completed all training requirements.



______________________________                             ____________________________
     Training Manager                                             Supervisor




                                               16
SECTION C - SKILL LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

1. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this specialty are defined in terms of tasks
and knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for
each skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry,
award, and retention of each skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements
are identified in the STS at Part II, Section A and B of this CFETP.

2. Specialty Qualification.

2.1. Apprentice Level Training.

2.1.1. Specialty Qualification.

2.1.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: electrical, mechanical, physics, optics, and
thermal principles; mathematics, and number systems; operating principles, use, care, and repair
of TMDE and laboratory standards; analysis and interpretation of technical data, including block,
schematic, wiring, and logic diagrams; troubleshooting techniques; metrology program,
calibration traceability, metrology techniques, laboratory practices, software, and computer
operations principles; use of hand tools; procedures for training, supply, maintenance data
collection, QP, command certification, equipment scheduling, production, and materiel control;
facility requirements; and support equipment management.

2.1.1.2. Education. Completion of high school or general education development equivalency
is mandatory for entry into this specialty. Also, courses in electronics, physics, trigonometry,
and algebra, and technical or vocational training in electronics or instrumentation is desirable.

2.1.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2P031, completion of a basic precision measurement
equipment laboratory course is mandatory.

2.1.1.4. Experience. None.

2.1.1.5. Other. For entry into this specialty, normal color vision as defined in AFMAN 48-123
is mandatory.

2.1.2. Training Sources/Resources. The initial skills course will provide the required
knowledge and qualifications. Initial skills training encompasses electronic principles,
equipment theory and operation, system components, component removal and installation,
introduction to metrology concepts, use of technical publications, maintenance documentation,
and support equipment familiarization and use.

2.1.3. Implementation. Upon graduation from Basic Military Training, Airmen are assigned to
a training center for completion of course E3AQR2P031 048B, Electronics Principles, and
course E3ABR2P031 0B1A, Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory Apprentice.
Completion of both courses will result in award of the 3-level.




                                                17
2.2. Journeyman Level Training.

2.2.1. Specialty Qualification.

2.2.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to the 3-level qualifications, an individual must possess
knowledge of electrical, electronics, electromechanical, mechanical, physics, optics, and thermal
principles; mathematics, and binary systems; operating principles of TMDE and laboratory
working standards; analysis of block, schematic, wiring, and logic diagrams, and technical data;
troubleshooting techniques; calibration traceability, metrology techniques, and laboratory
practices; microprocessors; computer operational principles, language, and software; and
aerospace systems principles.

2.2.1.2. Education. Same as required for entry into AFSC 2P031.

2.2.1.3. Training. Same as required for entry into AFSC 2P031.

2.2.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2P031. Also, experience in
functions such as maintaining, modifying, aligning, calibrating, or certifying TMDE and
laboratory standards, or preparing inputs to TMDE logistics support systems.

2.2.1.5. Other. Same as required for entry into AFSC 2P031.

2.2.2. Training Sources/Resources. The 5-level CDC provides the career knowledge training
required. Qualification training and OJT will provide training and qualification on core tasks
identified in the STS or AFJQS. The CDC is written to build from the trainee's knowledge base
and provides more in-depth knowledge supporting OJT requirements.

2.3.3. Supervisor/Training Manager Input. Utilize Table 5.2 Base/Unit Education and
Training Checklist as applicable to facilitate upgrade actions.

2.2.4. Implementation. Training to the 5-level is performed by the units, utilizing the STS or
AFJQS, the CDC, and OJT. Upgrade to the 5-level requires completion of the 2P051 Precision
Measurement Equipment Laboratory Journeyman CDC, 12 months OJT, and completion of all
core tasks.

2.3. Craftsman Level Training.

2.3.1. Specialty Qualification.

2.3.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to the 5-level qualifications, an individual must possess
knowledge of advanced electrical, electronics, electromechanical, mechanical, physics, optics
and thermal principles; operating principles of complex and intricate TMDE and laboratory
standards; interpretation of block, schematic, wiring, and logic diagrams, and technical data;
advanced troubleshooting techniques; planning, and quality assurance.

2.3.1.2. Education. Same as required for entry into AFSC 2P031.




                                               18
2.3.1.3. Training. Same as required for entry into AFSC 2P031.

2.3.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2P051. Also, experience in
laboratory supervision, planning, maintaining, modifying, and certifying complex and intricate
TMDE and laboratory standards, and preparing inputs to TMDE logistics support systems.

2.3.1.5. Other. Same as required for entry into AFSC 2P031.

2.3.2. Training Sources/Resources. Seven-level upgrade training will be conducted by
certified trainers using AF core tasks, unit/MAJCOM specific courses.

2.3.3. Implementation. Upgrade to the 7-level will require completion of all AF core tasks, 7-
level CDCs, and 12 months OJT as a SSgt selectee/SSgt

2.4. Superintendent Level Training.

2.4.1. Specialty Qualification.

2.4.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to 7-level qualifications, an individual must possess knowledge
of concepts and principles in Air and Space Expeditionary Force support planning and
procedures for training, manpower, personnel, supply, civil engineering, budget, maintenance
data collection, integrated logistics feedback systems, and quality assurance. Knowledge of
quality Air Force principles, command certification, support agreements, reimbursement
procedures, equipment scheduling, production and materiel control, facility requirements, and
metrology functions and procedures. They must also be knowledgeable of all environmental
standards and ensure adherence to the proper handling and disposal of hazardous materials and
waste.

2.4.1.2. Education. Same as required for entry into AFSC 2P031.

2.4.1.3. Training. Same as required for entry into AFSC 2P031.

2.4.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2P071. Also, experience in
managing or coordinating training programs and requirements; planning supply, facility, and
budget requirements; quality control and assurances programs; integrated logistics support
planning; feed back into Air Force Materiel Command logistics systems to resolve problems;
interservice and interdepartmental support agreements; reimbursement procedures; and
Directorate of Metrology interaction.

2.4.1.5. Other. Same as required for entry into AFSC 2P031.

2.4.2. Training Sources/Resources. Same as required for entry into AFSC 2P031.

2.4.3. Supervisor/Training Manager Input. Utilize Table 5.2 Base/Unit Education and
Training Checklist as applicable to facilitate upgrade actions.




                                               19
2.4.4. Implementation. The 9-level will be awarded after promotion to SMSgt.
The 9-level will be awarded after completing MAJCOM requirements, unit OJT, and promotion
to SMSgt. Resident graduation of the Senior NCO Academy is a prerequisite for SMSgt sew-on.




                                            20
SECTION D - RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS

1. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints, which preclude optimal/desired
training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower.
Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what
effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section are actions
required, office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource constraints will
be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

2. Apprentice-Level Training.

2.1. Constraints. There are no constraints in starting the new E3ABR2P031 0B1C apprentice
course. New equipment will be added to the course upon receipt.

3. Five-Level Training.

3.1. Constraints. New training requirements listed in CTS E3AZR2P051-0A1D will be
implemented 120 days after receipt of new equipment. Resource constraints for course
E3AZR2P051-0A1D supplemental course are: Digital Voltmeter (8508A), Sampling
Oscilloscope (86100C) and NIDA Trainers.

New training requirements listed in CTS E8AZR2P051-0P1C and CTS E8AZR2P051-1P1C will
be implemented 120 days after receipt of new equipment. Resource constraints for courses
E8AZR2P051-0P1C and E8AZR2P051-1P1C are: Air Data Calibrator (ADC-2500), Flight
Control System Test Set (TTU-205J), 400Hz Power Supply (T3FC-11-1K), Low Pressure
Secondary Standard (PPC3), Multi-Gas Monitor (PGM 50), Platform Scale (AC1-25LP),
Temperature/Humidity Display w/probe (1620/2626), Lab EMS/Log Ware (9936A), Optics kits
(A-8003-0441 and 0442), Right Angle Iron (9194), Dial Indicator (E3BS), Bore sight Calibration
Fixtures (16A75062-119 and 16A75029-169) and Right Angle Granite Block (81554).
New training requirements listed in CTS E3AZR2P051 0T1C will be implemented 120 days
after receipt of new equipment. Additionally, this start date needs to coincide with the start date
of E3AZR2P051-0A1D due to instructor pricing. Resource constraints for course E3AZR2P051-
0T1C are: Navigation Test Sets (AN/ARM-188 and 184), Time Interval Test Set (TS-
3427/ARM), RF Power Divider (11667A) and Variable Attenuator (8494B).

4. Seven-Level Training.

4.1. Constraints. None

SECTION E – TRANSITIONAL TRAINING GUIDE- There are no transitional
requirements, this area is reserved.




                                                21
PART II

Section A - SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

1. Implementation. This Specialty Training Standard (STS) will be used for training provided
by Air Education and Training Command for classes beginning 120531 and graduating 121002.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201 this STS:

2.1. Lists in column 1, the tasks, knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for
Airmen to perform in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level. These are based on an analysis of the duties in
AFECD. All 3-Level training items are wartime course objectives.

2.2. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and
knowledge training requirements. Use automated training management systems to document
technician qualifications, if available. Task certification must show a certification or completed
date. (As a minimum, use the following column designators: Training Complete, Certifier
Initials.) When two codes are used in column 4a, the first code is the established requirement for
resident training on the task/knowledge, and the second code indicates the level of training
provided in the course due to equipment shortages and other resource constraints.

2.3. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the
proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the task
and knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course.

2.4. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used
to indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career
development courses.

2.5. Use to document task when placed in AF Form 623, Individual Training Record, and used
according to AFI 36-2201.

2.6. Provides in column 3, OJT certification columns to record completion of task and
knowledge training requirements. Certification is accomplished IAW AFI 36-2201 and the
procedures outlined below.

2.7. Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion
System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the USAF Occupational
Measurement Squadron by senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their career
fields. The test samples knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development team
members to be the most appropriate for promotion. Questions are based on the WAPS study
references listed in the WAPS catalog published by AFOMS/CC. Individual responsibilities are
outlined in AFI 36-2605.

2.8. Becomes a Job Qualification Standard (JQS) for OJT when placed in the AF Form 623,
Individual Training Record, and used according to AFI 36-2201. For OJT, the tasks in column 1




                                                22
are trained and qualified at the go/no go level. "Go" means the individual can perform the task
without assistance and meets local requirements for accuracy, timeliness, and correct use of
procedures.

2.9. Provides Upgrade Certification Procedures: Prior to upgrade, all 2P0X1 personnel,
regardless of duty position, must satisfactorily complete all upgrade training requirements.
Trainees must also meet AFSC requirements outlined in AFI 36-2101 and AFECD, and be task
certified on upgrade core tasks. All 7-level trainees must be certified on both 5-level and 7-level
appropriate core tasks for upgrade. Due to different equipment at each unit, selected Air Force
core tasks on items which are not available at a specific location are not required for upgrade.
Work centers may add local upgrade critical tasks and non-mandatory tasks to the AFJQS.
Completion of non-mandatory tasks, pertinent to the unit, will continue to be accomplished as
tasks become available for training.

3. Records Documentation. Document and certify completion of training IAW AFI 36-2201.
Entries will be as follows:

3.1. Identification. Enter trainee's identification data, supervisors/trainers, and certifying
official on the AFJQS identification page.

3.2. Certification. Certify tasks (in pencil) as follows:

3.2.1. Certify those tasks that are listed in the STS.

3.2.2. Circle current duty position task numbers. If in upgrade training, these tasks include core
tasks associated with the current duty position. Note: Training on all core tasks is still required
for upgrade unless otherwise stated by the AFCFM. Erase all other circled tasks not applicable
to the current duty position.

3.2.3. As task training starts, enter the training start date in column 3a.

3.2.4. When the trainee and trainer agree to task proficiency, the trainer will initial column 3d
and the trainee will initial column 3c. For task certification, the certifying official will evaluate
the trainee for proficiency.

3.2.5. Selected STS tasks are listed in a dual action format like Remove/Install. Training and
time constraints can prevent consecutive task training or certification on both removal and
installation. In this situation, divide the trainee, trainer or certifier, and completion date columns
with a diagonal (/) to accommodate dual entries. The trainer and trainee will enter an "R" for
removal or "I" for installation, and their initials adjacent to either side of the (/) in their
respective columns. If separate certifications are required, divide column 3b and, enter "R" or
"I", initials, and completion date.

3.3. Decertification. To decertify an individual who is no longer proficient at a required task,
erase all entries associated with the task. A statement will be annotated on the AF Form 623A to
reflect the reason for decertification.




                                                  23
3.4. Recertification. Once retraining is started, enter the new training start date. After
completing the task to a "go" level, recertify following procedures in paragraph 3.2.4.

3.5. Transcribing to new CFETP.

3.5.1. Use the new CFETP to identify current training requirements and transcribe qualifications
from the previous CFETP.

3.5.2. For tasks previously certified and required in the current duty position, circle the
subparagraph number next to the task statement and enter the current date in the completion
column. Trainee initials in the trainee column and the current task certifier or supervisor/trainer
initials in the trainer column.”

3.5.3. For tasks previously certified but not required in the current duty position (do not circle),
transcribe only the previous certification date (no initials).

3.5.4. Annotate the AF Form 623a, (for example, “I certify the information contained in the
CFETP dated XXX was transcribed to the CFETP dated XXX, and the trainee was given the
superseded CFETP.” Signed, dated, supervisor and trainee).

4. Proficiency Code Keys. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to indicate
level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and CDCs.

5. Recommendations. Comments and recommendations are invited concerning the quality of
AETC Training. A Customer Service Information line (CSIL) has been installed for the
supervisors’ convenience. For a quick response to concerns call our CSIL at DSN 597-4566, or
fax us at DSN 597-3790 or e-mail us at 81trg-tget@keesler.af.mil. Reference this CFETP/STS
and identify the specific area of concern (paragraph, training standard element, etc.)




                                                 24
BY THE ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE



OFFICIAL                                JUDITH A. FEDDER
                                        Lieutenant General, USAF
                                        DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support


7 Attachments
1. Qualitative Requirements
2. Training Requirements, Common
3. Training Requirements, Electronic Principles
4. Course Objective List
5. Support Materials
6. Training Course Index
7. MAJCOM Unique Requirements




                                              25
                                    THIS BLOCK IS FOR IDENTIFICATION PURPOSES ONLY
                                                                 NAME OF TRAINEE
PRINTED NAME (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                   INITIALS (Written)                 SSAN


                                   PRINTED NAME OF TRAINING/CERTIFYING OFFICIAL AND WRITTEN INITIALS
N/I                                                              N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I



                                                    QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                        PROFICIENCY CODE KEY
                                  SCALE        DEFINITION: The individual
                                  VALUE
                                     1         IS EXTREMELY LIMITED. (Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to
                                               do most of the task.)
           TASK                      2         IS PARTIALLY PROFICIENT. (Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest
                                               parts.)
    PERFORMANCE                      3         IS COMPETENT. (Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work.)

       LEVELS                        4          IS HIGHLY PROFICIENT. (Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show
                                               others how to do the task.)
                                     a          KNOWS NOMENCLATURE. (Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task.)

        *TASK                        b          KNOWS PROCEDURES. (Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task.)

      KNOWLEDGE                      c         KNOWS OPERATING PRINCIPLES. (Can identify why and when the task must be done and
                                               why each step is needed.)
          LEVELS                     d         KNOWS ADVANCED THEORY. (Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task.)

                                     A          KNOWS FACTS. (Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject.)

       **SUBJECT                     B          KNOWS PRINCIPLES. (Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles
                                               about the subject.)
      KNOWLEDGE                      C          KNOWS ANALYSIS. (Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject.)

        LEVELS                       D          KNOWS EVALUATION. (Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the
                                               subject.)
                                                          EXPLANATIONS

 * A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.

-     This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

X This mark is used alone in course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.




                                                                                                                                 ATTACHMENT 1


                                                                         26
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                    STS 2P0X1
                                                             2.        3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes
                                                              Core                                                      Used To Indicate
                                                              Tasks                                                     Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                            Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                             A    B      A          B          C          D                A        B        C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                               3        5        7
                                                                                                                          Skill    Skill    Skill
                                                                                                                          Level    Level    Level
                                                              5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer            (1)      (1)      (1)
                                                                         Start    Complete   Initials   Initials          Crse     CDC      CDC
NOTE 1: Training references (TRs) listed are representative of test, measurement, and diagnostic equipment (TMDE) and applicable standards. Users
        annotate TRs to identify local TMDE availability for upgrade and qualification training.
NOTE 2: Attachment 2 of the CFETP is used to code core competencies of the career field that are taught in the 3-level course.
NOTE 3: All 3-skill level course requirements are trained in the 3-level resident wartime course.
NOTE 4: Underlined TRs are suggested commercial publications or other service publications that may be used for Specialty Training (ST) and
        mission accomplishment. Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 5: Repair is not accomplished in the resident course. Code levels for troubleshoot/repair in course column 4A(1) and/or 4C(1) refer to any one
        or a combination of theoretical or “hands on” troubleshoot or circuit analysis.
NOTE 6: Attachment 3 of the CFETP is used to document training taught in the Electronics Principles Course Prerequisite to PMEL 3-level.
NOTE 7: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Managers to the AETC Training Pipeline Manager,
         .A3TM
NOTE 8: Section 13 of this STS is used to identify training proficiencies taught in the 3-lvl course and 5 & 7-lvl CDC only.
         Section 13 is not intended for field use.
1        CAREER LADDER PROGRESSION
         TR: AFECD, AFI 36-2618

1.1      Progression in career ladder 2P0X1                                                                                 -        A         -

1.2      Duties of AFSCs 2P031/51/71                                                                                        -        A         -

2        SECURITY
         TR: AFI , 31-401

2.1      Specific OPSEC vulnerabilities of AFSC 2P0X1                                                                       A        B         -

2.2      Physical Security                                                                                                  -        A         -
         TR: AFPD 31-1

3        AF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH
          (AFOSH) PROGRAM (Hazards of AFSC 2P0X1)
         TR: AFI 91-301; AFOSH Std 91-90; TO 31-1-
       141-1-CD-1, TOs 00-25-232, 00-25-234

3.1      Hazards of AFSC 2P0X1                                                                                              A        A         -
         TR: AFOSH Std 91-90
3.2      RISK MANAGEMENT                                                                                                    A        A         A

4        HAZARDOUS MATERIALS AND WASTE
         HANDLING ACCORDING TO ENVIRONMENTAL
         STANDARDS
         TR: AFI 32-7042; AFPAM 32-7043; AFOSH
         Std 91-90
4.1      Types of hazardous materials/fluids                                                                                A        B         -

4.2      Handling procedures                                                                                                A        B         -

4.3      Storage and labeling                                                                                               A        B         -

4.4      Proper disposal                                                                                                    -        B         -

4.5       Hazardous spills cleanup                                                                                          -        B         -

5        PUBLICATIONS AND FORMS

5.1      Maintain


                                                                                                                                  ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                       27
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                    STS 2P0X1
                                                                    2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                     Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                                     Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                   A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                               3        5       7
                                                                                                                          Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                          Level    Level   Level
                                                                    5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                               Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
5.1.1    Automated Technical Order (TO) Management System                                                                   -        -       -
        (ATOMS) accounts
         TR: TO 00-5-1

5.1.2    TO Libraries                                                                                                       -        -          -
         TR: TO 00-5-1

5.1.3    Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTOs)                                                                           -        -          -
         TR: TO 00-5-15-WA-1

5.2      Use indexes to locate publication                          *                                                      2b        -          -
          numbers and titles
          TR: TO 00-5-1

5.3      Use technical information to maintain TMDE                 *                                                      2b       b           -
         TR: Applicable TMDE TOs; Commercial Publications

5.4      Research supply data (supply catalogs,                     *                                                      2b        -          -
         federal logistics (FEDLOG), or WEBFLIS/stock control
         documents).
         TR: Applicable Supply Publications; MIL-SPECs;
         Applicable TOs; D.A.T.A. Series

5.5     Draft TO improvement reports (AFTO Form 22)                                                                         b       b           -
        TR: TO 00-5-1

5.6     Use calibration and correction charts                       *                                                       b        -          -
        TR: TO 00-20-14

5.7     Complete TMDE documentation forms                           *                                                      2b        -          -
         TR: TO 00-20-14

5.8     Complete AF Form 2005                                                                                               b        -          -
        TR: AFMAN 23-110 Vol II Part 13

5.9      Draft Deficiency Reports                                                                                           -        -          a
         TR: TO 00-35D-54-WA-1

5.10    Complete Equipment Condition Forms and Tags                 *                                                       b        -          -
        TR: TO 00-20 Series

5.11    Use 33K-1-100-1/2, AFCAV                                    *                                                      2b        -          -

6        SUPERVISION

6.1      Write Report of Survey                                                                                             -        -          -
         TR: AFMAN 23-220; DODD 7200.10

6.2      Conduct initial evaluations for newly assigned personnel                                                           -        -          -
         TR: AFI 36-2201

6.3      Initiate extension requests for TMDE calibrations                                                                  -        -          -
         TR: TO 00-20-14

6.4      Schedule
         TR: AFI 21-101, other applicable directives

6.4.1    Work assignments                                                                                                   -        -          -

6.4.2    Work priorities                                                                                                    -        -          -


                                                                                                                                  ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                             28
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                   STS 2P0X1
                                                                   2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                    Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                                    Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                            Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                  A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                              3        5       7
                                                                                                                         Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                         Level    Level   Level
                                                                   5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                              Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
6.4.3   Other activities (ancillary training, staff meetings and                                                           -        -       -
        leave time)

6.5     Assign
        TR: AFI 21-101

6.5.1   Maintenance and repair work                                                                                        -        -          -

6.5.2   Personnel to positions                                                                                             -        -          -

6.6     Unit Manning Document, Unit Personnel Management                                                                   -        -          B
        Rosters, and Air Force Manpower Standards
        TR: AFI 38-201; AFMS 23I1; AFPAM 38-208

6.7     USAF Graduate Evaluation Program                                                                                   -       B           -
        TR: AFI 36-2201

6.8     Maintenance Complex Organization                                                                                   -        -          A
        TR: AFI 21-101

7       TRAINING
        TR: AFI 36-2201

7.1     Evaluate EST requirements                                                                                          -        -          -

7.2     Supervise EST

7.2.1   Document training                                                                                                  -        -          -

7.2.2   Schedule training                                                                                                  -        -          -

7.3     OJT trainer responsibilities

7.3.1   Prepare training plans and teaching outlines                                                                       -        -          -

7.3.2   Conduct training                                                                                                   -        -          a

7.4     OJT task certifier responsibilities

7.4.1   Develop training evaluation program                                                                                -        -          -

7.4.2   Evaluate trainee’s attainment of training objectives                                                               -        -          -

7.4.3   Provide feedback to supervisor and trainer on evaluation                                                           -        -          -
        results

8       QUALITY PROGRAM
        TR: AFI 21-101; TO 00-20-14

8.1     Evaluate

8.1.1   TO improvement reports                                                                                             -        -          -

8.1.2   Draft calibration procedures                                                                                       -        -          -

8.1.3   Calibration responsibility determination reports                                                                   -        -          -

8.2     Conduct



                                                                                                                                 ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                            29
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                    STS 2P0X1
                                                                    2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                     Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                                     Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                   A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                               3        5       7
                                                                                                                          Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                          Level    Level   Level
                                                                    5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                               Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
8.2.1    QP briefings for newly assigned personnel                                                                          -        -       -

8.2.2    On-site PMEL or QP inspection visits                                                                               -        -          -

8.2.3    Quality reviews                                                                                                    -        -          a

8.2.4    Root cause analysis                                                                                                -        -          a

8.2.5    Trend analysis                                                                                                     -        -          a

8.2.6    Process Reviews                                                                                                    -        -          a

8.3      Coordinate deficiency reports with appropriate agencies                                                            -        -          -

8.4      Compile QP data for monthly records, reports, and logs                                                             -        -          -

8.5      Maintain environmental charts and logs                                                                             -        -          -

9        PRODUCTION CONTROL
         TR: AFI 21-101; TOs 00-20-14, 33-1-27, AFCSM
         21-303V2


9.1      Perform acceptance or receiving inspections of incoming                                                            -        -          -
         TMDE, including validating part number, documentation
         and condition

9.2      Schedule equipment into and out of the laboratory               *                                                 2b        -          -
         TR: AFCSM 21-303V2

9.3      Maintain Equipment Schedules                                                                                       -        -          -
         TR: AFCSM 21-303V2

9.4      Maintain (Master TMDE Database)                                 *                                                  -        -          -

9.5      Conduct TMDE coordinator training                                                                                  -        -          -

10       SUPPLY AND EQUIPMENT
         TR: AFI 64-117; AFMAN 23-110

10.1     Certify status of reparable, serviceable, or condemned                                                             -        -          -
         parts for TMDE

10.2     Coordinate

10.2.1   Government card purchases                                                                                          -        -          -

10.2.2   Requisition of equipment                                                                                           -        -          -

10.2.3   Technical assistance requirements with AFMETCAL,                                                                   -        -          -
         manufacturers, or other PMELs

10.2.4   Turn-in of excess or surplus property with base or other                                                           -        -          -
         agencies

10.2.5   Supply transactions                                                                                                -        -          a

10.2.6   Outside agency support                                                                                             -        -          -
         TR: AFI 25-201

10.3     Maintain

                                                                                                                                  ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                             30
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                 STS 2P0X1
                                                                 2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                  Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                                  Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                          Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                            3        5       7
                                                                                                                       Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                       Level    Level   Level
                                                                 5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                            Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
10.3.1   Equipment Liaison Office (ELO) accounts                                                                         -        -       a

10.3.2   Organizational equipment/supply records                                                                         -        -          -

10.3.3   Equipment support plans                                                                                         -        -          a
         TR: TO 00-20-14

10.4     Prepare transportable field calibration units (TFCUs)                                                           -        -          -

10.5     Validate

10.5.1   Due-In From Maintenance (DIFM) transactions                                                                     -        -          -
         TR: TO 00-20-3

10.5.2   Supply transaction listings                                                                                     -        -          -

10.5.3   Mission capability (MICAP) conditions                                                                           -        -          a
         TR: AFMAN 23-110, Volume 2, (Part 2, Chapter 11)
10.5.4   SMR codes                                               *                                                       -        a          -
         TR: TO 00-25-195

11       MANAGEMENT

11.1     Maintenance Data Collection System Function                                                                    A         -          -
         TR: AFCSM 21-303V2; TOs 00-20-2, 33K-1-100-1/-2

11.2     PMEL Automated Management System (PAMS)
         TR: AFI 21-113; AFCSM 21-303V2; TOs 00-20-14, 33-
             1-27, 33K-1-100-1/-2

11.2.1   Use                                                     *                                                      2b        -          -

11.2.2   Print reports                                                                                                   -        -          -

11.2.3   Management systems                                                                                              -        -          -

11.3     Environmental conditions (LabEMS)                                                                               -        -          B
         TR: TO 00-20-14

11.4     Laboratory certification program                                                                                -        -          B
         TR: TO 00-20-14/AFI 21-113

11.5     TMDE support agreements                                                                                         -        -          B
         TR: AFI 25-201; DFAS-DER177-102; TO 00-20-14

11.6     Budget                                                                                                          -        -          A
         TR: AFI 65-601V1

11.7     Administer Management System                                                                                    -        -          -
         TR: TO 00-20-14

11.8     DIFM/Depot Level Repairables (DLR)                                                                              -       A           -
         TR: AFMAN 23-110; TO 00-20-3

11.9     Fraud Waste and Abuse/Zero Overpricing                                                                          -        -          -
         TR: AFI 90-301; AFMAN 23-110V7PT4

11.10    PMEL Facility Design Requirements                                                                               -        -          -
         TR: AFMAN 32-1094; TO 00-20-14




                                                                                                                               ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                          31
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                               STS 2P0X1
                                                               2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                                Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                              A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                          3        5       7
                                                                                                                     Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                     Level    Level   Level
                                                               5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                          Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
11.11      Reimbursements                                                                                              -        -       a
           TR: AFIs 25-201, 65-601 V1

11.12      Preventive Maintenance Inspections                                                                          -        -          -
           TR: TO 00-20-1

11.13      Compliance and Standardization Inspections                                                                  -        -          A
           TR: AFI-90-201

11.14      Mobility Program                                                                                            -        -          B
           TR: AFI 10-401, AFI 10-403

12         LABORATORY PRACTICES


12.1       Policies and Procedures                                                                                    A        B           -
           TR: AFI 21-113; TO 00-20-14

12.2       Electrostatic Discharge Sensitive Devices (ESD)                                                            A         -          -
           TR: TO 00-25-234

12.3       Surface Mount Technology (SMT)                                                                             A         -          -
           TR: TO 00-25-234

12.4       Cable and Connectors                                                                                       A         -          -
           TR: TOs 31-10-14, 33A1-13-579-1

12.5       Tools                                                                                                      A         -          -
           TR: TOs 32-1-2, 32-1-101, 32-1-151, 32-1-201

12.6        Bench Stock                                                                                               A         -          -
            TR: AFMAN 23-110 Vol II part 13

12.7       Substitution of TMDE standards                      *                                                       B       B           -
           TR: TOs 00-20-14, 33K-1-100-1/-2

13     JOB RELATED FUNDAMENTALS
           TR: TOs 31-1-141 Series, 33A6-4-15-1; Applicable
               Commercial Manuals

13.1       Perform Mathematical Calculations and Conversions

13.1.1     Power Ratios, Decibels, and dBms                                                                            B       B           -

13.1.2     Head Pressure                                                                                               -       B           -

13.1.3     Trigonometric applications                                                                                  -       B           -

13.1.4     Absolute, gage, and differential pressures                                                                  -       B           -

13.1.5     Percents of modulations                                                                                     B        -          -

13.1.6      Specific gravity of fluids, solids, and gases                                                              -       B           -

13.1.7     Volume, mass, and area                                                                                      -       B           -

13.1.8     Degrees, minutes, and seconds conversions                                                                   -       B           -

13.1.9     Mass conversions                                                                                            -       B           -

13.1.10    Metric/English unit conversions                                                                             B        -          -

                                                                                                                             ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                        32
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                 STS 2P0X1
                                                                 2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                  Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                                  Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                          Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                            3        5       7
                                                                                                                       Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                       Level    Level   Level
                                                                 5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                            Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
13.1.11   Pressure conversions                                                                                           B        B       -

13.1.12   Thermocouple millivolt to temperature conversions                                                              B       B           -

13.1.13   Error, correction, and correction factors                                                                      B       B           -

13.1.14   Gross, systematic, and random errors                                                                           B       B           -

13.1.15   Interpolating readings, charts, and graphs                                                                     B       B           -

13.1.16   Frequency, Time, and Data Domains                                                                             A         -          -


13.1.17   Frequency Synthesis                                                                                           A        B           -

13.1.18   Tolerances using equipment specifications              *                                                       B       B           -

13.2      Measurement results

13.2.1    Microwave measurements, power, attenuation, and                                                                -       B           -
          voltage standing wave ratios (VSWR)

13.2.2    Phase noise measurements (PNMs)                                                                                -       B           -

13.2.3    Signals using data-domain TMDE                                                                                 -        -          -

13.2.4    Uncertainty principles                                                                                         B        -          -
          ANSI Z-540-3, ISO 17025
13.2.5    Flow calibrations                                                                                              -        -          -

13.3      General maintenance practices
          TR: TO 00-25-234
13.3.1    Design or fabricate specialized TMDE test devices,                                                             -        -          -
          loads, cables, adapters, and test fixtures

13.3.2    Identify/recycle recoverable precious metals                                                                   -        -          -

13.3.3    Inspect TMDE for loose, foreign, and missing objects   *                                                      2b        -          -

13.3.4    Inspect/replace common electrical hardware, power      *                                                      2b        -          -
          plugs, and fuses
          TR: TO 33-1-32

13.3.5    Perform preventive maintenance inspections (PMIs)                                                              b        -          -

13.3.6     Perform time compliance technical order (TCTO)                                                                -        -          a
           process

13.3.7     Solder and Desolder

13.3.7.1 Terminal Connection                                                                                            2b        -          -

13.3.7.2 Printed Circuit Board (PCB)                                                                                    2b        -          -

13.3.7.3 Multi-pin Connector                                                                                            2b        -          -

13.3.8    Assemble Solderless Connectors

13.3.8.1 Crimped Connection                                                                                             2b        -          -

13.3.8.2 Coaxial Connector                                                                                              2b        -          -

                                                                                                                               ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                          33
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                            STS 2P0X1
                                                            2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                             Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                     Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                           A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                       3        5       7
                                                                                                                  Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                  Level    Level   Level
                                                            5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                       Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
13.3.8.3 Multi-pin Connector                                                                                       2b        -       -

13.4     Infrared                                                                                                   -        -          -
         TR: Specific Equipment TO and/or Commercial Data

13.5     Temperature                                                                                                B       B           -
         TR: NAVAIR 17-35QAL-2

13.6     Humidity                                                                                                   B       B           -
         TR: NAVAIR 17-35QAL-2

13.7     Pressure                                                                                                   B       B           -
         TR: TO 33-1-19

13.8     Vacuum                                                                                                     B       B           -
         TR: TO 33-1-19

13.9     Vibration                                                                                                  -       B           -
         TR: TO 33A1-11-39-1 (AF75E); Comm Data (9610)

13.10    Force                                                                                                      -       B           -
         TR: NAVAIR 17-35QAL-2

13.11    Torque                                                                                                     B       B           -
         TR: TO 32B14-3-1-101

13.12    Linear Measurement                                                                                         B       B           -
         TR: TOs 32-1-101, 32-1-201

13.13    Angular Measurement                                                                                        -       B           -
         TR: TOs 32-1-101, 32-1-201

13.14    Mass and Weight                                                                                            B       B           -
         TR: NAVAIR 17-35QAL-2

13.15    Flow                                                                                                       -       B           -
         TR: NAVAIR 17-35QAL-2

13.16    Density                                                                                                    -       B           -
         TR: NAVAIR 17-35QAL-2

13.17    Viscosity                                                                                                  -        -          -
         TR: NAVAIR 17-35QAL-2

13.18    Optics                                                                                                     -       B           -
         TR: NAVAIR 17-35QAL-9

13.19    Rotary Motion                                                                                              -       B           -
         TR: NAVAIR 17-35QAL-2

13.20    Sound                                                                                                      -        -          -
         TR: TOs 33A1-7-206-1 (1551-C), 33D7-45-22-1
              (2290-9159)
13.21    Spectrum Analysis                                                                                          -       A           B
         TR: Specific Equipment TO and/or Commercial
              Data (Agilent 150 series App Notes)

13.22    Signature Analysis                                                                                         -        -          -
         TR: TO 33D7-10-128-1




                                                                                                                          ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                     34
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                             STS 2P0X1
                                                             2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                              Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                              Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                            A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                        3        5       7
                                                                                                                   Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                   Level    Level   Level
                                                             5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                        Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
13.23       ILS/VOR                                                                                                  -        B       -
            TR: TO 33A1-3-504-1

13.24       Troubleshooting Theory                                                                                   B       B           -

13.25       TACAN                                                                                                    -        -          A
             TR: MIL-STD-291C
13.26       IFF                                                                                                      -        -          A
            TR: MIL-STD-199E
13.27       Resistance                                                                                               -       B           -
            TR: TO 33A1-12-689-1
13.28       Pulse                                                                                                    -       A           -
            TR: IEEE STD 181-2003
13.29       High Frequency Synthesis                                                                                 -       A           B
            TR: TO 33A1-8-1035-1
13.30       Distortion                                                                                               -       B           -
            TR: TO 33A1-5-269-11
13.31       Attenuation                                                                                              -       A           -
            TR: TO 33A1-7-59-1, 33A1-7-177-1
13.32       Equipment Theory

13.32.1     Voltage Divider                                                                                          -       B           -
            TR: TO 33AA22-32-1 (720A); Comm Data (752A)
13.32.2     Meter Calibrator                                                                                         -       A           B
            TR: TOs 33A1-12-1362-1 (5700A), 33A1-12-1366-1
            (5725A); Comm Data (5500A/5520A, 5720A); 5320A
13.32.3     Multimeters                                                                                              -       B           -
             TR: TO 33A1-12-1215-1 8840A/AF,(34410A );
             Comm Data (77 Series, 87 Series)
13.32.4     Function Generator                                                                                       -       B           -
            TR: TO 33A1-8-877-1
13.32.5     Oscilloscope Calibrator                                                                                  -       B           -
            TR: 33D7-45-111-1
13.32.6     Measuring Receiver                                                                                       -       A           B
            TR: Comm Data; N5530S and 8902
13.32.7     Crystal Detector                                                                                         -       A           -
            TR: TO 33A1-5-330-1 (423A)
13.32.8     Scales

13.32.8.1 Personnel weighing scales                                                                                  -       A           -
          TR: (NIST) Handbook 44
13.32.8.2 Aircraft weighing scales                                                                                   -       A           -
          TR: Intercomp Comm data
 14       AC/DC ELECTRICAL MEASUREMENT
          STANDARDS/TMDE
          TR: TOs 33K-1-100-1/-2, 33K Series

14.1        Resistance
            TR: TOs 33AA6-13-1 (240C), 33A1-12-450-1
                 (RS925), 33A1-12-689-1 (DB-62), 33A1-12-
                 1090-1 (242E); Comm Data (SR1060, MRS-
                 9107)
14.1.1      Use                                              *                                                      2b        -          b

14.1.2      Align                                                                                                    -        -          -

14.1.3      Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                      -        -          -

14.1.4      Calibrate                                             *                                                  -        -          -




                                                                                                                           ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                      35
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                        STS 2P0X1
                                                        2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                         Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                         Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                 Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                       A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                   3        5       7
                                                                                                              Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                              Level    Level   Level
                                                        5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
14.2     Resistance Measuring System
         Comm Data (6625AF)

14.2.1   Use                                                 *                                                  -        -          a

14.2.2   Align                                                                                                  -        -          -

14.2.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                    -        -          -

14.2.4   Calibrate                                                                                              -        -          -

14.3     Capacitance
         TR: TO 33A1-12-500-1 (1419A); Comm Data (SS-
             32, 16380A, 16380C)

14.3.1   Use                                            *                                                       -        a          -

14.3.2   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                    -        -          -

14.3.3   Calibrate                                                                                              -        -          -

14.4     Inductance
         TR: TO 33A1-12-445-1 (1482L)

14.4.1   Use                                                                                                    -        -          -

14.4.2   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                    -        -          -

14.4.3   Calibrate                                                                                              -        -          -

14.5     DC Voltage Divider
         TR: TO 33AA22-36-1 (720A); Comm Data (752A)

14.5.1   Use                                            *                                                      2b        -          -

14.5.2   Align                                                                                                  -        -          -

14.5.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                    -        -          -

14.5.4   Calibrate                                                                                              -        -          -

14.6     AC Ratio Transformer/Divider
         TR: TOs 33AA22-8-21 (RT5, RT20A), 33AA22-
             15-1 (DT72A)

14.6.1   Use                                                                                                    -        -          -

14.6.2   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                    -        -          -

14.6.3   Calibrate                                                                                              -        -          -

14.7     Capacitance Bridges
         TR: Comm Data (AH2700, 1621)

14.7.1   Use                                                                                                    -        a          -

14.7.2   Align                                                                                                  -        -          -

14.7.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                    -        -          -

14.7.4   Calibrate                                                                                              -        -          -



                                                                                                                      ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                 36
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                              STS 2P0X1
                                                              2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                               Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                               Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                             A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                         3        5       7
                                                                                                                    Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                    Level    Level   Level
                                                              5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                         Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
14.8      Kelvin-ratio Bridges
          TR: TO 33A1-6-153-1 (240C)

14.8.1    Use                                                                                                         -        -          -

14.8.2    Align                                                                                                       -        -          -

14.8.3    Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                         -        -          -

14.8.4    Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -

14.9      DC Voltage Standards
          TR: Comm Data (5440B)

14.9.1    Use                                                                                                         -        -          -

14.9.2    Align                                                                                                       -        -          -

14.9.3    Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                         -        -          -

14.9.4    Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -

14.10     AC Voltage Standards
          TR: TO 33D7-45-51-1 (5200A)
14.10.1   Use                                                                                                         -        -          -

14.10.2   Align                                                                                                       -        -          -

14.10.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                         -        -          -

14.10.4   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -

14.11     Power Supply
          TR: TOs 33AA17-110-1 (6202B), 35C1-2-177 (6267A),
              33DA11-75-1 (6434B)

14.11.1   Use                                                                                                         -        -          -

14.11.2   Align                                                                                                       -        -          -

14.11.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                         -        -          -

14.11.4   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -


14.12     Instrument/Electronic Calibrator
          TR: TOs 33A1-12-1381-8 (5700A), 33A1-2-304-1
                (5725A), 33D2-3-27-11 (5320A); Comm Data
                (5500A/5520A, 5720A, 5790A/AF)

14.12.1   Use                                                 *                                                      2b        -          -

14.12.2   Align                                                                                                       -        -          -

14.12.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                         -        -          -

14.12.4   Calibrate                                                *                                                  -        -          -

14.13     Analog Passive Multimeter
          TR: TOs 33A1-12-773 (260-AFP1), 33A1-12-1187-
              1 (260-6XLP)

14.13.1   Use                                                                                                        2b        -          -

                                                                                                                            ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                       37
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                          STS 2P0X1
                                                          2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                           Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                           Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                   Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                         A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                     3        5       7
                                                                                                                Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                Level    Level   Level
                                                          5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                     Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
14.13.2   Align                                                                                                  2b        -       -

14.13.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                    2b        -          -

14.13.4   Calibrate                                                                                              2b        -          -

14.14     High Accuracy Digital Multimeter
          TR: TOs 33A1-12-1350 (3458A), 33D9-57-119
               (8506A), 33A1-12-1386-1 (8508A)

14.14.1   Use                                             *                                                      2b        -          -

14.14.2   Align                                                                                                   -        -          -

14.14.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                     -        -          -

14.14.4   Calibrate                                            *                                                  -        -          -

14.15     Digital Multimeter
          TR: TO 33A1-12-1215-1 (8840A/AF), 33A1-12-
               103-1 (34401A); Comm Data (77 Series, 87
               Series)

14.15.1   Use                                                                                                    2b        -          -

14.15.2   Align                                                                                                  2b        -          -

14.15.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                     b        -          -

14.15.4   Calibrate                                       *                                                      2b        -          -

14.16     Capacitor/Inductor Analyzer
          TR: Comm Data (LC53, LC75, 1689-9751)

14.16.1   Use                                                                                                     -        -          -

14.16.2   Align                                                                                                   -        -          -

14.16.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                     -        -          -

14.16.4   Calibrate                                                                                               -        -          -

14.17     Conductivity Meter
          TR: TO 33C2-90-1 (1152)

14.17.1   Use                                                                                                     -        -          -

14.17.2   Align                                                                                                   -        -          -

14.17.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                     -        -          -

14.17.4   Calibrate                                                                                               -        -          -

14.18     High Resistance TMDE
          TR: TO 33A1-12-234-1 (544B); Comm Data (RX-
               1LM, 6500A, 6517A/AF, 100-H-AF)

14.18.1   Use                                                                                                     -        -          -

14.18.2   Align                                                                                                   -        -          -

14.18.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                     -        -          -

                                                                                                                        ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                   38
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                            STS 2P0X1
                                                            2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                             Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                     Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                           A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                       3        5       7
                                                                                                                  Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                  Level    Level   Level
                                                            5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                       Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
14.18.4   Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -       -

14.19     High Voltage TMDE
          TR: TOs 33A1-12-120 (MD1), 33A1-12-1053-1
               (HD103), 33D7-6-315-1 (ANALM187A);
               Comm Data (ESMOO, DB40-.05)

14.19.1   Use                                                                                                       -        -          -

14.19.2   Align                                                                                                     -        -          -

14.19.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

14.19.4   Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -

14.20     Generator Detector
          TR: TOs 33A1-12-925 (801( )), 33D7-22-33 (1238)

14.20.1   Use                                                                                                       -        -          -

14.20.2   Align                                                                                                     -        -          -

14.20.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

14.20.4   Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -

14.21     AC/DC Transfer Standard
          TR: TO 33A1-12-1355 (5790A)

14.21.1   Use                                               *                                                       -        a          -

14.22     Phase Standard
          TR: TOs 33A1-5-496 (650), 33A1-8-822-1 (411);
               Comm Data (5000/6000, 5500-2)

14.22.1   Use                                                                                                       -        a          -

14.22.2   Align                                                                                                     -        -          -

14.22.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

14.22.4   Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -

14.23     Null Detector
          TR: TO 33A1-6-115-1 (845)); Comm Data (AVM-
               100)
14.23.1   Use                                                                                                       -        a          -

14.23.2   Align                                                                                                     -        -          -

14.23.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

14.23.4   Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -

14.24     Differential Voltmeter
          TR: TOs 33A1-12-804-11 (931B), 33A1-12-792-11
               (887AB)
14.24.1   Use                                                                                                       -        -          -

14.24.2   Align                                                                                                     -        -          -

14.24.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

14.24.4   Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -

                                                                                                                          ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                     39
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                             STS 2P0X1
                                                             2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                              Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                              Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                            A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                        3        5       7
                                                                                                                   Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                   Level    Level   Level
                                                             5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                        Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
14.25     Clamp-on Voltmeter/Ammeter
          TR: TO 33A1-12-212 (633VA1)

14.25.1   Use                                                                                                        -        -          -

14.25.2   Align                                                                                                      -        -          -

14.25.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                        -        -          -

14.25.4   Calibrate                                                                                                  -        a          -

14.26      Ohmmeter
          TR: TO 33A1-12-850-1 (670A); Comm Data (620-
          4)

14.26.1   Use                                                                                                        -        -          -

14.26.2   Align                                                                                                      -        -          -

14.26.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                        -        -          -

14.26.4   Calibrate                                                                                                  -        -          -

14.27     AC Voltmeter
          TR: TOs 33A1-12-249-31 (400E), 33A1-12-643-1
              (3400A), 33A1-12-1094-1 (3015A)

14.27.1   Use                                                                                                       2b        -          -

14.27.2   Align                                                                                                     2b        -          -

14.27.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                        -        -          -

14.27.4   Calibrate                                                                                                 2b        -          -

14.28     RF Millivoltmeter
          TR: TOs 33A1-12-949-1 (92A-S2), 33A1-12-1097-
              1 (MV823A1)

14.28.1   Use                                                                                                        -        -          -

14.28.2   Align                                                                                                      -        -          -

14.28.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                        -        -          -

14.28.4   Calibrate                                                                                                  -        -          -

14.29     Phase-angle Voltmeter
          TR: TOs 33A1-12-755-1 (2129880-( )), 33A1-12-967
               (244RS);

14.29.1   Use                                                                                                        -        -          -

14.29.2   Align                                                                                                      -        -          -

14.29.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                        -        -          -

14.29.4   Calibrate                                                                                                  -        -          -




                                                                                                                           ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                      40
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                           STS 2P0X1
                                                           2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                            Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                            Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                    Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                          A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                      3        5       7
                                                                                                                 Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                 Level    Level   Level
                                                           5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                      Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
14.30     High-voltage Probe/Divider
          TR: TO 33AA22-31-1 (80F-15); Comm Data (2900A,
              80E10, 80K( ))

14.30.1   Use                                                                                                      b        -          -

14.30.2   Align                                                                                                    -        -          -

14.30.3   Troubleshoot/Repair

14.30.4   Calibrate                                                                                                -        -          -

14.31     AC/DC Current Shunt
          TR: Comm Data (A45/AF, HCF-1AF, 9211)

14.31.1   Use                                                   *                                                  -        -          -

14.31.2   Calibrate                                                                                                -        -          -

14.32     DC Reference Standard
          TR: TOs 33A1-12-327-1 (9152-4), 33A1-12-1385-1
              (734A/AF)

14.32.1   Use                                                   *                                                  -        -          -

14.32.2   Intercompare                                          *                                                  -        -          a

14.33     Transconductance Amplifier
          TR: TO 33A1-2-276-1 (1620A); Comm Data (8100,
               5220)
14.33.1   Use                                                                                                      -        -          -

14.33.2   Align                                                                                                    -        -          -

14.33.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                      -        -          -

14.33.4   Calibrate                                                                                                -        -          -

14.34     Electric Load
          TR: TO 33DA22-31-11 (EL750 ( ))

14.34.1   Use                                                                                                      -        -          -

14.34.2   Align                                                                                                    -        -          -

14.34.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                      -        -          -

14.34.4   Calibrate                                                                                                -        -          -

14.35     Analog Active Voltmeter
          TR: TO 33A1-12-848-1 (427A)

14.35.1   Use                                                                                                      -        -          -

14.35.2   Align                                                                                                    -        -          -

14.35.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                      -        -          -

14.35.4   Calibrate                                                                                                -        -          -



                                                                                                                         ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                    41
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                              STS 2P0X1
                                                           2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                            Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                            Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                    Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                          A    B      A          B          C          D             A           B           C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                         3           5           7
                                                                                                                    Skill       Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                    Level       Level       Level
                                                           5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer         (1)         (1)         (1)
                                                                      Start    Complete   Initials   Initials       Crse        CDC         CDC
15 TIME, TIME DOMAIN, FREQUENCY, FREQUENCY
     DOMAIN, DATA DOMAIN AND WAVEFORM
     ANALYSIS STANDARDS/TMDE
     TR: TOs 33K-1-100-1/-2, 33K3 Series

15.1     Time Domain Reflectometer
         TR: TOs 33A1-4-73 (1502), 33A1-12-1155-1 (1503)
15.1.1   Use                                                                                                    -           -           -

15.1.2   Align                                                                                                  -           -           -

15.1.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                    -           -           -

15.1.4   Calibrate                                                                                              -           -           -

15.2     Function Generator
         TR: TOs 33A1-8-840 (1425527), 33A1-8-847-1
              (FG502), 33A1-8-877-1 (3325A), 33A1-8-840-
              1 (SG1146)

15.2.1   Use                                               *                                                         2b           -           -

15.2.2   Align                                                                                                       b            -           -

15.2.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                         b            -           -

15.2.4   Calibrate                                         *                                                         2b           -           -

15.3     Pulse TMDE
         TR: TOs 33A1-8-394-1 (214A), 33A1-8-784-11
              (PG506), 33A1-8-809-1 (PG502), 33A1-8-886-
              1 (214B), 33A1-8-934-1 (8112A)

15.3.1   Use                                               *                                                         2b           -           -

15.3.2   Align                                                                                                        -           -           -

15.3.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                          -           -           -

15.3.4   Calibrate                                                                                                    -           -           -

15.4     Oscilloscope Calibration System
         TR: TO 33A1-8-119-1 (F7529A); Comm Data
              (9500B/3200AF)

15.4.1   Use                                               *                                                         2b           -           -

15.4.2   Align                                                                                                        -           -           -

15.4.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                          -           -           -

15.4.4   Calibrate                                         *                                                          -           -           -

15.5     Standard Sampling System
         TR: TOs 33A1-13-687-2 (11801B/C);
             33A1-10-315-8-1 (SD-24); Comm Data
             (067-1413-00, 86100C w/86117A)


15.5.1   Use                                                    *                                                     -           -          a

15.5.2   Align                                                                                                        -           -           -

                                                                                                                            ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                    42
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                          STS 2P0X1
                                                          2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                           Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                           Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                   Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                         A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                     3        5       7
                                                                                                                Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                Level    Level   Level
                                                          5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                     Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
15.5.3    Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                     -        -       -

15.5.4    Calibrate                                                                                               -        -          -

15.6      Signal Generator/Oscillator
          TR: TOs 33A1-8-523 (652A), 33A1-8-760-31
               (8640B), 33A1-8-1081-1 (9610A/AF); Comm
               Data (E8257D)

15.6.1    Use                                             *                                                      2b        -          -

15.6.2    Align                                                                                                  2b        -          -

15.6.3    Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                     b        -          -

15.6.4    Calibrate                                       *                                                      2b        -          -

15.7      Low Frequency Synthesizer
          TR: TOs 33A1-8-863-1 (6011A), 33A1-8-895-1
              (3335A); Comm Data (9640A/AF)

15.7.1    Use                                             *                                                       -        -          -

15.7.2    Align                                                                                                   -        -          -

15.7.3    Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                     -        -          -

15.7.4    Calibrate                                       *                                                       -        -          -

15.8      High Frequency Synthesizer
          TR: TOs 33A1-8-851-1 (8672A), 33A1-8-955-1
               (8673), 33A1-8-1059 (8673( )); Comm Data
               (MB 3693B( ), 68000)

15.8.1    Use                                             *                                                      2b        -          -

15.8.2    Align                                                                                                   -        -          -

15.8.3    Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                     -        -          -

15.8.4    Calibrate                                            *                                                  -        -          -

15.9      Feedthrough Load
          TR: Comm Data

15.9.1    Use                                             *                                                      2b        -          -

15.9.2    Calibrate                                                                                               -        -          -

15.10     Audio/Distortion Analyzer
          TR: TOs 33A1-5-269-11 (334A), 33A1-5-503-1
              (TS4084), 33A1-13-722-1 (8903B)

15.10.1   Use                                             *                                                      2b        -          -

15.10.2   Align                                                                                                  2b        -          -

15.10.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                     b        -          -

15.10.4   Calibrate                                                                                              2b        -          -




                                                                                                                        ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                   43
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                 STS 2P0X1
                                                                 2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                  Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                                  Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                          Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                            3        5       7
                                                                                                                       Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                       Level    Level   Level
                                                                 5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                            Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
15.11     Spectrum Analyzer
          TR: TOs 33A1-13-607 (8592( )), 33A1-13-658-2
          (8563( )), 33D7-10-129-1 (8566A), (E-Series P/Ns)

15.11.1   Use                                                    *                                                      2b        -          -

15.11.2   Align                                                                                                          -        -          -

15.11.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                            -        -          -

15.11.4   Calibrate                                                   *                                                  -        -          -

15.12     Precise Frequency
          TR: Comm Data (2100F, 1083B, 2200, 5060 Series)

15.12.1   Use                                                    *                                                      2b       b           -

15.12.2   Align                                                                                                          -        -          -

15.12.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                            -        -          -

15.13     RF/Microwave Power Amplifiers
          TR: TOs 33A1-2-90 (495A), 33A1-2-229 (8447A)

15.13.1   Use                                                                                                            -        -          -

15.13.2   Align                                                                                                          -        -          -

15.13.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                            -        -          -

15.13.4   Calibrate                                                                                                      -        -          -

15.14     Comb Generator
          TR: TO 33A1-5-251 (8406A)

15.14.1   Use                                                                                                            -        -          -

15.14.2   Align                                                                                                          -        -          -

15.14.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                            -        -          -

15.14.4   Calibrate                                                                                                      -        -          -

15.15     Electronic Counter/Timer
          TR: TOs 33A1-10-200-1 (5345( )), 33A1-10-254-1
               (5335( )), 33A1-10-278 (5334( )), 33A1-10-287-1
               (1992( )), 33A1-10-293 (548( )); Comm Data
               (PM6654C/AC, 53132A)

15.15.1   Use                                                    *                                                      2b       b           -

15.15.2   Align                                                                                                          -        -          -

15.15.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                            b        -          -

15.15.4   Calibrate                                              *                                                      2b        -          -

15.16     Vector Voltmeter
          TR: TO 33A1-12-1386-1 (8508A)

15.16.1   Use                                                                                                            -        -          -



                                                                                                                               ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                          44
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                              STS 2P0X1
                                                              2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                               Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                               Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                             A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                         3        5       7
                                                                                                                    Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                    Level    Level   Level
                                                              5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                         Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
15.16.2   Align                                                                                                       -        -       -

15.16.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                         -        -          -

15.16.4   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -

15.17     Thermal Voltage Converters
          TR: Comm Data (11000 Series)

15.17.1   Use                                                 *                                                      2b       b           -

15.17.2   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -

15. 18    Oscilloscope,
          TR: TOs 33A1-13-491 (7000 Series), 33A1-13-591-2
               (2246); Comm Data (TDS 2014)

15.18.1   Use                                                                                                        2b        -          -

15.18.2   Align                                                                                                      2b        -          -

15.18.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                         b        -          -

15.18.4   Calibrate                                                                                                  2b        -          -

15.19     Oscilloscope Plug-in Units
          TR: TO 33A17-12-1 (7A13)

15. 19.1 Use                                                                                                          -        -          -

15. 19.2 Align                                                                                                        -        -          -

15. 19.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                          -        -          -

15. 19.4 Calibrate                                                                                                    -        -          -

15.20     Oscilloscope calibration Fixture Plug-in Units
          TR: TO 33DA21-326-1 (067-0587-02)

15.20.1   Use                                                                                                         -        -          -

15.20.2   Align                                                                                                       -        -          -

15.20.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                         -        -          -

15.20.4   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -

15.21     Balancer Analyzer
          TR: Comm Data (8500-C, 9935-2, 9000 Series)

15.21.1   Use                                                                                                         -        -          -

15.21.2   Align                                                                                                       -        -          -

15.21.3   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -

15.22     Oscilloscope, Digital, Waveform, Digitizing
          TR: TOs 33A1-13-526 (7854), 33A1-13-583 (54111D),
               33A1-13-586 (54110D), 33A1-5-43-11 (LC584AL)

15.22.1   Use                                                 *                                                      2b       b           -


                                                                                                                            ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                       45
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                              STS 2P0X1
                                                              2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                               Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                               Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                             A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                         3        5       7
                                                                                                                    Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                    Level    Level   Level
                                                              5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                         Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
15.22.2   Align                                                                                                       -        -       -

15.22.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                         -        -          -

15.22.4   Calibrate                                           *                                                      2b        -          -

15.23     Selective Level Voltmeter
          TR: TO 33A1-5-467-1 (3586( ))

15.23.1   Use                                                                                                         -        -          -

15.23.2   Align                                                                                                       -        -          -

15.23.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                         -        -          -

15.23.4   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -

15.24     AM/FM Test Source
          TR: TO 33A1-8-1121-1 (11715A)

15.24.1   Use                                                                                                         -        -          -

15.24.2   Align                                                                                                       -        -          -

15.24.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                         -        -          -

15.24.4   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -

16 MICROWAVE MEASUREMENT STANDARDS/TMDE
     TR: TOs 33K-1-100-1/-2, 33K Series; Comm Data

16.1      Attenuator
          TR: TOs 33AA36-10-1 (8491), 33AA36-33-1
               (8496)

16.1.1    Use                                                                                                        2b        -          -

16.1.2    Calibrate                                           *                                                       -        -          -

16.2      Waveguide/Coaxial Directional Coupler
          TR: TOs 33A1-12-1230-1 (1852( )), 33D7-13-17-1
              (752), 33DA100-5-1 (779( ))

16.2.1    Use                                                                                                         -        a          -

16.2.2    Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -

16.3      Thermistor Mount/Power Sensor
          TR: TOs 33A1-9-47-1 (478A), 33A1-9-52-1 (8478A),
              33A1-9-54-1 (GIL360), 33A1-7-270-1 (8481A/H);
              Comm Data (E-Series)

16.3.1    Use                                                 *                                                      2b       b           -

16.3.2    Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                         -        -          -

16.3.3    Calibrate                                           *                                                       -        -          -




                                                                                                                            ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                       46
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                               STS 2P0X1
                                                               2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                                Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                              A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                          3        5       7
                                                                                                                     Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                     Level    Level   Level
                                                               5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                          Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
16.4      Power Meter
          TR: TOs 33A1-7-205-1 (432A), 33A1-7-261-1 (436A);
              Comm Data (437, 438, E Series, 1830A)

16.4.1    Use                                                  *                                                      2b       b           -

16.4.2    Align                                                                                                       2b        -          -

16.4.3    Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                          b        -          -

16.4.4    Calibrate                                            *                                                      2b        -          -

16.5      Termination
          TR: TOs 33AA7-67-1 (914A/B), 33AA7-78-1 (905A)

16.5.1    Use                                                                                                          -        -          a

16.5.2    Calibrate                                                                                                    -        -          -

16.6      Noise Source
          TR: TO 33A1-6-168-1 (346B)

16.6.1    Use                                                                                                          -        -          -

16.6.2    Calibrate                                                                                                    -        -          -

16.7      Power Divider /Power Splitter
          TR: TOs 33K4-4-597-1 (1506A), 33K4-4-510-1
              (11667A)

16.7.1    Use                                                                                                          -        -          -

16.7.2    Calibrate                                                                                                    -        -          -

16.8      Measuring Receiver
          TR: TOs 33A1-5-478-1 (1295), 33A1-10-296 (8902( ))

16.8.1    Use                                                                                                                   -          -

16.8.2    Align                                                                                                        -        -          -

16.8.3    Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                          -        -          -

16.8.4    Calibrate                                                                                                    -        -          -

16.9      Detector
          TR: TO 33A1-5-330-1 (423A)

16.9.1    Use                                                                                                         2b        -          -

16.9.2    Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                          -        -          -

16.10     Network Analyzer
          TR: TOs 33D7-10-64 (8411A), 33D7-10-186 (85100),
              33D7-20-45 (8410B), 33D7-10-182 (8757 ( ))

16.10.1   Use                                                                                                          -        -          -

16.10.2   Align                                                                                                        -        -          -

16.10.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                          -        -          -


                                                                                                                             ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                        47
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                              STS 2P0X1
                                                              2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                               Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                               Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                             A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                         3        5       7
                                                                                                                    Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                    Level    Level   Level
                                                              5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                         Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
16.10.4   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -       -

16.11     SWR Meter
          TR: TO 33A1-6-33 (415B/E)

16.11.1   Use                                                                                                         -        -          -

16.11.2   Align                                                                                                       -        -          -

16.11.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                         -        -          -

16.11.4   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -

16.12     Swept Frequency Generator
          TR: TO33A1-8-1054-12-1 (8340B); Comm data (8643)

16.12.1   Use                                                                                                         -        -          b

16.12.2   Align/                                                                                                      -        -          -

16.12.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                         -        -          -

16.12.4   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -

16.13     RF Wattmeter
          TR: TO 33A1-5-317 (TS1771AU)

16.13.1   Use                                                                                                         -        -          -

16.13.2   Align                                                                                                       -        -          -

16.13.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                         -        -          -

16.13.4   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -

16.14     Wattmeter calibrator
          TR: TO 33A1-2-268 (SSPAO240-22/6140)

16.14.1   Use                                                                                                         -        -          -

16.14.2   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                         -        -          -

16.15     Use Power Standard                                                                                          -        -          -
          TR: TOs 33A1-12-1230-1 (1852( )); Comm Data
               (4421A300)

16.16     Peak Power Calibrator
          TR: Comm Data (2760)

16.16.1   Use                                                                                                         -        -          -

16.16.2   Align                                                                                                       -        -          -

16.16.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                         -        -          -

16.16.4   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -

16.17     Power Meter Calibrator
          TR: TOs 33A1-7-226 (8477A), 33D7-45-76-1 (11683A)

16.17.1   Use                                                                                                        2b        -          -

                                                                                                                            ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                       48
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                              STS 2P0X1
                                                              2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                               Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                               Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                             A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                         3        5       7
                                                                                                                    Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                    Level    Level   Level
                                                              5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                         Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
16.17.2   Align                                                                                                       -        -       -

16.17.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                         -        -          -

16.17.4   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -

16.18     RF Peak Power Meter
          TR: TOs 33A1-7-263-11 (), 33A1-7-299 (8501/8502);
              Comm Data (4400)

16.18.1   Use                                                                                                         -        -          a

16.18.2   Align                                                                                                       -        -          -

16.18.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                         -        -          -

16.18.4   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -

16.19     Power Measurement Calibration System
          TR: Comm Data (PMCS)

16.19.1   Use                                                 *                                                       -        -          -

16.19.2   Align                                                                                                       -        -          -

16.19.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                         -        -          -

16.19.4   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -

16.20     Phase Noise Measurement System
          TR: Comm Data (E5504B))

16.20.1   Use                                                      *                                                  -        -          a

16.20.2   Align                                                                                                       -        -          -

16.20.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                         -        -          -

16.20.4   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -

16.21     Noise Figure Measurement System
          TR: TO 33A1-6-164 (8970V)

16.21.1   Use                                                                                                         -        -          -

16.21.2   Align                                                                                                       -        -          -

16.21.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                         -        -          -

16.21.4   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -




                                                                                                                            ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                       49
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                        STS 2P0X1
                                                        2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                         Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                         Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                 Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                       A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                   3        5       7
                                                                                                              Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                              Level    Level   Level
                                                        5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
16.22     Noise Source Calibration System
          TR: TO 33A1-3-1030-1 (TA110000-622)
16.22.1 Use                                                                                                     -        -          -

16.23     Waveguide Mount Coupler Set
          TR: Comm Data (WGMC8-40)

16.23.1   Use                                                                                                   -        -          -

16.24     Photometric Calibration System
          TR: Comm Data (BHSPMS-1)

16.24.1   Use                                                                                                   -        -          -

16.24.2   Align                                                                                                 -        -          -

16.24.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                   -        -          -

16.24.4   Calibrate                                                                                             -        -          -

16.25     Spectral Radiance Standards
          TR: Comm Data (RS-3, RS-10( ), RS-11( ))

16.25.1   Use                                                                                                   -        -          -

16.25.2   Align                                                                                                 -        -          -

16.25.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                   -        -          -

16.25.4   Calibrate                                                                                             -        -          -

16.26     Use Power Measurement Standard                                                                        -        -          -
          TR: Comm Data (PM2)

16.27     Fiber Optics Calibration System
          TR: Comm Data (FOSC1, FOCUS, 81623B-E01,
               81655A-E02)

16.27.1   Use                                                                                                   -        -          -

16.27.2   Align                                                                                                 -        -          -

16.27.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                   -        -          -

16.27.4   Calibrate                                                                                             -        -          -

16.28     Fiber Optic TMDE
          TR: TO 33DA122-6-21 (81655A-E02); Comm Data
                (OF150, OF152, TD1000( ))

16.28.1   Use                                                                                                   -        -          -

16.28.2   Align                                                                                                 -        -          -

16.28.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                   -        -          -

16.28.4   Calibrate                                                                                             -        -          -

16.29     Microwave Measurement Receiver /System
          (MMR/MMS)
          TR: Comm Data (N5530SE( ))


                                                                                                                      ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                 50
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                             STS 2P0X1
                                                             2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                              Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                              Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                            A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                        3        5       7
                                                                                                                   Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                   Level    Level   Level
                                                             5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                        Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
16.29.1    Use                                               *                                                      2b        -       -

16.29.2    Align                                                                                                     -        -          -

16.29.3    Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

16.29.4    Calibrate                                              *                                                  -        -          -

17     PHYSICAL MEASUREMENT STANDARDS/TMDE
          TR: TOs 32-1-201, 33K-1-100-1/-2, 33K Series

17.1       Linear Standards
           TR: Comm Data (88)

17.1.1     Use                                               *                                                      2b        -          -

17.1.2     Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -

17.2       Electronic Height Gages
           TR: Comm Data (432, 715, 812-CX-1)

17.2.1     Use                                                                                                       -        -          a

17.2.2     Align                                                                                                     -        -          -

17.2.3     Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

17.2.4     Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -

17.3       Gage Block Comparator
           TR: Comm Data (130B Series)

17.3.1     Use                                                                                                       -        -          -

17.3.2     Align                                                                                                     -        -          -

17.3.3     Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

17.3.4     Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -

17.4       Supermicrometers
           TR: Comm Data (2000, Model B, 828, 400B())

17.4.1     Use                                                                                                       -        -          -

17.4.2     Align                                                                                                     -        -          -

17.4.3     Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

17.4.4     Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -

17.5       Linear Measuring TMDE
           TR: Comm Data (GGGC105, GGGC111, 25 Series Dial
                Indicator)

17.5.1     Use                                                                                                      2b        -          -

17.5.2     Align                                                                                                     -        -          -

17.5.3     Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

17.5.4     Calibrate                                         *                                                      2b        -          -


                                                                                                                           ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                      51
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                            STS 2P0X1
                                                            2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                             Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                     Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                           A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                       3        5       7
                                                                                                                  Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                  Level    Level   Level
                                                            5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                       Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
17.6      Angular Standards
          TR: Comm Data (88, 16AA, 470 51D23054)

17.6.1    Use                                                                                                       -        -          a

17.6.2    Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

17.6.3    Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -

17.7      Angular Measuring TMDE
          TR: TOs 33-1-201 (GGGL211B), 33D9-57-27-1
              (TB107A); Comm Data (EMD-842P-50)

17.7.1    Use                                                                                                       -        -          a

17.7.2    Align                                                                                                     -        -          -

17.7.3    Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

17.7.4    Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -

17.8      Levels, other than optical levels
          TR: Comm Data (199)

17.8.1    Use                                                                                                       -        -          -

17.8.2    Align                                                                                                     -        -          -

17.8.3    Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

17.8.4    Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -

17.9      Temperature Standards
          TR: TO 33C3-16-1 (3.5B-67248); Comm Data (CS77,
              PRTs, 5303, 5309, 3605-1-101, 9210 w/5901)

17.9.1    Use                                               *                                                       b        -          -

17.9.2    Align                                                                                                     -        -          -

17.9.3    Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

17.9.4    Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -

17.10     Portable Dry Well Temperature Calibrator                                                                  -        -          -
          TR: Comm Data (9143-A-P)
17.10.1   Use                                                                                                       -        -          -

17.11     Temperature Measuring TMDE
          TR: Comm Data (77)

17.11.1   Use                                                                                                       b        -          -

17.11.2   Align                                                                                                     -        -          -

17.11.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

17.11.4   Calibrate                                         *                                                       b        -          -




                                                                                                                          ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                     52
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                               STS 2P0X1
                                                               2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                                Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                              A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                          3        5       7
                                                                                                                     Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                     Level    Level   Level
                                                               5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                          Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
17.12     Humidity Standards
          TR: Comm Data (2500)

17.12.1   Use                                                                                                          -        -          -

17.12.2   Align                                                                                                        -        -          -

17.12.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                          -        -          -

17.12.4   Calibrate                                                                                                    -        -          -

17.13     Humidity Measuring TMDE
          TR: Comm Data (566, 08T2P, SA760A, 2626S, CT485,
              2500S)

17.13.1   Use                                                  *                                                       -        a          -

17.13.2   Align                                                                                                        -        -          -

17.13.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                          -        -          -

17.13.4   Calibrate                                                 *                                                  -        -          -

17.14.    Vacuum Standards
          TR: TOs 33A7-4-73-1 (2200), 33C2-91-1 (80-6); Comm
              Data (PVS-1-10)

17.14.1   Use                                                                                                                              b

17.15     High Vacuum Pumping Systems
          TR: TO 33A7-4-48-1 (VR300)

17.15.1   Use                                                                                                          -        -          -

17.16     Vacuum Gages
          TR: Comm Data (GV3, VT6)

17.16.1   Use                                                                                                          -        -          b

17.16.2   Align                                                                                                        -        -          -

17.16.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                          -        -          -

17.16.4   Calibrate                                                                                                    -        -          -

17.17     Pneumatic Pressure Standards
          TR: Comm Data (3682, PPC2AF, ADC-2500)

17.17.1   Use                                                  *                                                       -        a          -

17.17.2   Align                                                                                                        -        -          -

17.17.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                          -        -          -

17.17.4   Calibrate                                                 *                                                  -        -          -

17.18     Hydraulic Pressure Standards
          TR: TO 33A6-4-7-11 (E-DWT-10000-AF); Comm Data
              (10-10525, HGC-30000-AF)

17.18.1   Use                                                  *                                                      2b        -          -


                                                                                                                             ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                        53
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                            STS 2P0X1
                                                            2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                             Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                     Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                           A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                       3        5       7
                                                                                                                  Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                  Level    Level   Level
                                                            5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                       Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
17.18.2   Align                                                                                                     -        -       -

17.18.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

17.18.4   Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -

17.19     Primary Pressure Standards
          TR: TO 33A6-4-15-1 (120X); Comm Data (2465-601-
              58500), (PG7601)

17.19.1   Use                                                    *                                                  -        -          b

17.19.2   Align                                                                                                     -        -          -

17.19.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

17.19.4   Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -

17.20     Pneumatic Pressure Gages
          TR: TO 33-1-19 (3461); Comm Data (Model C/H)

17.20.1   Use                                                                                                       -        -          -

17.20.2   Align                                             *                                                       -        -          -

17.20.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

17.20.4   Calibrate                                         *                                                       -        -          -

17.21     Hydraulic Pressure Gages
          TR: TO 33-1-19 (3461); Comm Data (Model C/H)

17.21.1   Use                                                                                                      2b        -          -

17.21.2   Align                                             *                                                       -        -          -

17.21.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

17.21.4   Calibrate                                         *                                                      2b        -          -

17.22     Pressure Measuring TMDE/Transducers
          TR: Comm Data (2100 Series, 6200 Series)

17.22.1   Use                                                                                                       -        -          -

17.22.2   Align                                                                                                     -        -          -

17.22.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

17.22.4   Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -

17.23     Mass and Weight Standards
          TR: Comm Data (1100, S1, MMS)

17.23.1   Use                                               *                                                      2b        -          -

17.23.2   Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -




                                                                                                                          ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                     54
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                          STS 2P0X1
                                                          2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                           Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                           Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                   Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                         A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                     3        5       7
                                                                                                                Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                Level    Level   Level
                                                          5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                     Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
17.24     Scales
          TR: Comm Data (400 Series, 6437)

17.24.1   Use                                                                                                    2b        -          -

17.24.2   Align                                                                                                   -        -          -

17.24.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                     -        -          -

17.24.4   Calibrate                                                                                              2b        -          -

17.25     Precision/Analytical Balances
          TR: Comm Data (PM30000K, MT5, AT Series,
          MSU225S-000-DU)

17.25.1   Use                                                                                                     -        -          -

17.25.2   Align                                                                                                   -        -          -

17.25.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                     -        -          -

17.25.4   Calibrate                                                                                               -        -          -

17.26     Tachometer Standards
          TR: Comm Data (230440-1, H8224-837837)

17.26.1   Use                                                                                                     -        a          -

17.26.2   Align                                                                                                   -        -          -

17.26.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                     -        -          -

17.26.4   Calibrate                                                                                               -        -          -

17.27     Tachometer Measuring TMDE
          TR: TO 33D2-6-102

17.27.1   Use                                                                                                     -        -          -

17.27.2   Align                                                                                                   -        -          -

17.27.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                     -        -          -

17.27.4   Calibrate                                                                                               -        -          -

17.28     Torque Standards
          TR: Comm Data (CDI2000, CDT 2400, TTS250AFK))

17.28.1   Use                                             *                                                      2b        -          -

17.28.2   Align                                                                                                   -        -          b

17.28.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                     -        -          -

17.28.4   Calibrate                                            *                                                  -        -          b

17.29     Torque TMDE
          TR: TOs 32B14-3-1-101, 32B14-3-4-4

17.29.1   Use                                                                                                    2b        -          -



                                                                                                                        ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                   55
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                               STS 2P0X1
                                                               2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                                Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                              A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                          3        5       7
                                                                                                                     Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                     Level    Level   Level
                                                               5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                          Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
17.29.2   Align                                                *                                                       -        -       -

17.29.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                          -        -          -

17.29.4   Calibrate                                            *                                                      2b        -          -

17.30     Tensiometers
          TR: TO 33A3-3-2-1 (C Series, T5 Series, 1973TYPE8,
               1973TYPE9)

17.30.1   Use                                                                                                          -        -          -

17.30.2   Align                                                                                                        -        -          -

17.30.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                          -        -          -

17.30.4   Calibrate                                                                                                    -        -          -

17.31     Force Standards
          TR: TO 33C2-75 (800260); Comm Data (DMP40)

17.31.1   Use                                                  *                                                       -        a          -

17.31.2   Align                                                                                                        -        -          -

17.31.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                          -        -          -

17.32     Force Measuring TMDE
          TR: TO 35B2-2-2 (C1); Comm Data (AN60, AC 30-60,
               MD400)

17.32.1   Use                                                                                                          -        -          -

17.32.2   Align                                                                                                        -        -          -

17.32.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                          -        a          -

17.32.4   Calibrate                                            *                                                       -        -          -

17.33     Electronic Leveling System
          TR: (EMD-832P-50-W1)
17.33.1   Use                                                                                                          -        -          -

17.33.2   Align                                                                                                        -        -          -

17.33.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                          -        -          -

17.33.4   Calibrate                                                                                                    -        -          -

17.34     Surface plates
          TR: TO 32A19-51-1 (GGGP463)

17.34.1   Use                                                  *                                                       -        -          -

17.34.2   Calibrate                                                                                                    -        -          -

17.35     Vibration Standards/Pickups
          TR: TO 33A1-11-39-1 (AF75( )); Comm Data (9610)

17.35.1   Use                                                                                                          -        -          -

17.35.2   Align                                                                                                        -        -          -


                                                                                                                             ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                        56
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                            STS 2P0X1
                                                            2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                             Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                     Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                           A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                       3        5       7
                                                                                                                  Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                  Level    Level   Level
                                                            5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                       Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
17.35.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -       -

17.35.4   Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -

17.36     Vibration TMDE
          TR: TO 33A1-11-39-1; Comm Data (PBS4100, 4-128,
               2251)

17.36.1   Use                                                                                                       -        -          -

17.36.2   Align                                                                                                     -        -          -

17.36.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

17.36.4   Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -

17.37     Flow Standards
          TR: Comm Data (31TA2073-1-( ), QAF-24-VWR-1SC,
              FCS-3A-SS-C, AL13, MOLBLOC, EF3946-FTS)

17.37.1   Use                                                                                                       -        -          -

17.37.2   Align                                                                                                     -        -          -

17.37.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

17.37.4   Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -

17.38     Viscosity Measuring TMDE
          TR: Comm Data (MED2000)

17.38.1   Use                                                                                                       -        -          -

17.39     Thermocouple Junctions/Calibrators
          TR: Comm Data (CJ Series, Xitron 2000M, AN6520-
          4A110, 1140B)

17.39.1   Use                                               *                                                       -        -          -

17.39.2   Align                                                                                                     -        -          -

17.39.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

17.39.4   Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -

17.40     Oxygen TMDE
           TR: TOs 15X-1-102, 37C11-1-1
17.40.1   Inspect                                                                                                   -       b           -

17.40.2   Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -

17.41     Chemical Agent Alarm Systems
          TR: TO 33D5-6-7-3 (M140)

17.41.1   Align                                                                                                     -        -          -

17.41.2   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

17.41.3   Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -




                                                                                                                          ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                     57
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                       STS 2P0X1
                                                                       2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                        Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                                        Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                                Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                      A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                                  3        5       7
                                                                                                                             Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                             Level    Level   Level
                                                                       5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                                  Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
17.42      Boresight Fixtures, other than optical boresight fixtures
           TR: TO 33DA21-239-1 (16A75029-( )), 33DA21-244-1
                (16A74029-( )), 33DA21-247-1 (16A74028-( )),
                33DA21-272-1 (16A75055-( )), 33DA21-295-1
                (16A75062-( ))

17.42.1    Use                                                                                                                 -        -          -

17.42.2    Align                                                                                                               -        -          -

17.42.3    Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -        -          -

17.42.4    Calibrate                                                                                                           -        -          -

17.43      Small Arms Gages
           TR: Comm Data (7319994 Series)

17.43.1    Calibrate                                                                                                           -        -          -

17.44      LASER Measurement System
           TR: Comm Data (5528, ML10)

17.44.1    Use                                                                                                                 -        -          -

17.44.2    Calibrate                                                                                                           -        -          -

17.45      LASER measuring TMDE
           TR: Comm Data (Zygo 1202B)

17.45.1    Use                                                                                                                 -        -          -

17.45.2    Align                                                                                                               -        -          -

17.45.3    Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -        -          -

17.45.4    Calibrate                                                                                                           -        -          -

17.46      Roundness Machine
           TR: Comm Data (GT 50)
17.46.1    Use                                                                                                                 -        -          -

17.46.2    Calibrate                                                                                                           -        -          -

17.47      Dial Indicator Calibrator
           TR: Comm Data (Optimar 100, 400B-5)
17.47.1    Use                                                                                                                 -        -          -

17.47.2    Align                                                                                                               -        -          -

17.47.3    Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -        -          -

17.47.4    Calibrate                                                                                                           -        -          -

18      OPTICAL STANDARDS/TMDE

18.1       Collimators/Autocollimators
           TR: Comm Data (714010, D600, TA Series)

18.1.1     Use                                                                                                                 -        -          -

18.1.2     Align                                                                                                               -        -          -


                                                                                                                                     ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                                58
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                               STS 2P0X1
                                                               2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                                Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                              A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                          3        5       7
                                                                                                                     Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                     Level    Level   Level
                                                               5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                          Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
18.1.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                           -        -       -

18.1.4   Calibrate                                                                                                     -        -          -

18.2     Optical Refractors/Mirrors
         TR: TO 33B4-8-9-1 (); Comm Data (D616, 290)

18.2.1   Use                                                                                                           -        -          -

18.2.2   Calibrate                                                                                                     -        -          -

18.3     Optical Clinometer
         TR: Comm Data (142-43)

18.3.1   Use                                                                                                           -        -          -

18.3.2   Align                                                                                                         -        -          -

18.3.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                           -        -          -

18.3.4   Calibrate                                                                                                     -        -          -

18.4     Optical Comparators
         TR: Comm Data (EPIC30)

18.4.1   Use                                                                                                           -        -          -

18.4.2   Align                                                                                                         -        -          -

18.4.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                           -        -          -

18.4.4   Calibrate                                                                                                     -        -          -

18.5     Optical Micrometer
         TR: Comm Data (71-1112)

18.5.1   Use                                                                                                           -        -          -

18.5.2   Calibrate                                                                                                     -        -          -

18.6     Optical Flats and parallels
         TR: Comm Data (D617)

18.6.1   Use                                                   *                                                      2b       b           -

18.6.2   Calibrate                                                                                                     -        -          -

18.7     Theodolites, Transits, Optical and Surveying Levels
         TR: TO 49A8-4-1 (T-2); Comm Data (D626, 75( ),
         T Series, DT220)

18.7.1   Use                                                                                                           -        -          -

18.7.2   Align                                                                                                         -        -          -

18.7.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                           -        -          -

18.7.4   Calibrate                                                                                                     -        -          -




                                                                                                                             ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                        59
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                            STS 2P0X1
                                                            2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                             Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                     Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                           A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                       3        5       7
                                                                                                                  Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                  Level    Level   Level
                                                            5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                       Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
18.8     Short Range Calibrator
         TR: Comm Data (714010, D600, 270BN)

18.8.1   Use                                                                                                        -        -          -

18.8.2   Align                                                                                                      -        -          -

18.8.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                        -        -          -

18.8.4   Calibrate                                                                                                  -        -          -

18.9     Heads-up-display (HUD) Alignment Equipment
         TR: Comm Data (587-10200-21)

18.9.1   Use                                                                                                        -        -          -

18.9.2   Align                                                                                                      -        -          -

18.9.3   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                        -        -          -

18.9.4   Calibrate                                                                                                  -        -          -

19       F-15 TMDE
         TR: Specific Equipment TO and/or Comm Data

19.1     Control Stick Boost and Pitch Controller (CSBPC)
         TR: TOs 33D2-5-71-1 (68D30002-1001), 33D2-5-76-1
              (68D300041-1001)

19.1.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                  -        -          -

19.1.2   Calibrate                                                                                                  -        -          -

19.2     Gun Control Test Set
         TR: TO 33D5-12-209-1 (68D150015-1001)

19.2.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                  -        -          -

19.2.2   Calibrate                                                                                                  -        -          -

19.3     Instrument Landing System (ILS) Test Set
         TR: TO 33D2-6-207-11 (1993142)

19.3.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                  -        -          -

19.3.2   Calibrate                                                                                                  -        -          -

19.4     Input/Output Simulator
         TR: TO 33D7-8-101 (68D040040-1001)

19.4.1   Use                                                                                                        -        -          -

19.4.2   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                        -        -          -

19.5     Magnetic Azimuth Detector Simulator
         TR: TO 33D2-8-359-1 (2128940)

19.5.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                  -        -          -

19.5.2   Calibrate                                                                                                  -        -          -


                                                                                                                          ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                     60
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                         STS 2P0X1
                                                         2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                          Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                          Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                  Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                        A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                    3        5       7
                                                                                                               Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                               Level    Level   Level
                                                         5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                    Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
19.6      Microwave Noise Analyzer
          TR: TO 33D7-10-77-4 (1992602)

19.6.1    Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                              -        -          -

19.6.2    Calibrate                                                                                              -        -          -

19.7      Microwave Synthesizer System (MSS)
          TR: TO 33A1-8-792, 3, 4 (65704( ))

19.7.1    Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                              -        -          -

19.7.2    Calibrate                                                                                              -        -          -

19.8      Modulated Microwave Source (Watkins-Johnson)
          TR: TO 33DA52-17-1 (WJ1221-23)

19.8.1    Use                                                                                                    -        -          -

19.8.2    Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                              -        -          -

19.8.3    Calibrate                                                                                              -        -          -

19.9      Programmable Waveform Generator
          TR: TO 33A1-8-795-1 (157S409)

19.9.1    Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                              -        -          -

19.9.2    Calibrate                                                                                              -        -          -

19.10     RF Measurement/Stimuli Drawers
          TR: TO 33A1-5-417-1 (661004 ( ))

19.10.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                              -        -          -

19.10.2   Calibrate                                                                                              -        -          -

19.11     Sampling Waveform Digitizing System (SWDS)
          TR: 33K3-4-1206-15

19.11.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                              -        -          -

19.11.2   Calibrate

19.12     Supervisory Control System Test Set
          TR: TO 33D4-6-521-1 (A/E24T136)

19.12.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                              -        -          -

19.12.2   Calibrate                                                                                              -        -          -

19.13     Suppressed Carrier Modulator
          TR: TO 33D7-3-160-8-9-1 (2129664)

19.13.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                              -        -          -

19.13.2   Calibrate                                                                                              -        -          -




                                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                  61
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                           STS 2P0X1
                                                           2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                            Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                            Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                    Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                          A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                      3        5       7
                                                                                                                 Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                 Level    Level   Level
                                                           5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                      Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
19.14     TEWS Intermediate Support System (TISS)
          TR: TO 33D7-38-251-1 (AN/ALM-246)

19.14.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                -        -          -

19.14.2   Calibrate                                                                                                -        -          -

19.15     Transfer Function Analyzer
          TR: TOs 33D7-10-79-1 (1993219), 33D7-10-153-1
               (3594971)

19.15.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                -        -          -

19.15.2   Calibrate                                                                                                -        -          -

19.16     Waveguide Interlocks
          TR: TO 33D7-35-58-1 (2132433)

19.16.1   Align                                                                                                    -        -          -

19.16.2   Calibrate                                                                                                -        -          -

19.17     X-Band Signal Source
          TR: TO 33A1-8-718-4 (2129570)

19.17.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                -        -          -

19.17.2   Calibrate                                                                                                -        -          -

19.18     Weapons Control Test Set
          TR: TOs 33D5-3-46-1 (A/E24T-171), 33D5-16-72-1
              (A/E24T-169), 33D5-30-4-1 (A/E24T-170)

19.18.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                -        -          -

19.18.2   Calibrate

19.19     Weapons Firing Test Set Stray Voltage Detector
          TR: TO 33D5-3-46-1 (372-2/AO6G2621)

19.19.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                -        -          -

19.19.2   Calibrate                                                                                                -        -          -

19.20     Ignition Test Set
          TR: TO 33D4-6-515-1 (A/E24T-116)

19.20.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                -        -          -

19.20.2   Calibrate                                                                                                -        -          -

19.21     IFSS Signal Generator
          TR: TO 33A1-8-717-1 (1992604)

19.21.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                -        -          -

19.21.2   Calibrate                                                                                                -        -          -




                                                                                                                         ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                    62
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                      STS 2P0X1
                                                      2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                       Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                       Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                               Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                     A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                 3        5       7
                                                                                                            Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                            Level    Level   Level
                                                      5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                 Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
19.22     Mach Simulator
          TR: TO 33D4-6-518-1 (A/E24T-137)

19.22.1   Use                                                                                                 -        -          -

19.22.2   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                           -        -          -

19.23     Walk-around Test Set
          TR: TO 33D7-13-88-1 (AN/ALM-231)

19.23.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                           -        -          -

19.23.2   Calibrate                                                                                           -        -          -

19.24     Temperature Control Unit
          TR: TO 33C3-25-1 (70323-1)

19.24.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                           -        -          -

19.24.2   Calibrate                                                                                           -        -          -

19.25     Phase Sensitive Converter
          TR: TO 33D7-17-47-1 (1997006-( ))

19.25.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                           -        -          -

19.25.2   Calibrate                                                                                           -        -          -

19.26     AM/FM Signal Generator
          TR: TO 33A1-8-755-1 (1993120-( ))

19.26.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                           -        -          -

19.26.2   Calibrate                                                                                           -        -          -

19.27     X-Band Signal Generator
          TR: TO 33A1-8-722-1 (1993126-( ))

19.27.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                           -        -          -

19.27.2   Calibrate                                                                                           -        -          -

19.28     Precision Synchro Signal Converter (PSSC)
          TR: TO 33D7-17-74-1 (3597141-( ))

19.28.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                           -        -          -

19.28.2   Calibrate                                                                                           -        -          -

19.29     Secondary Power System Test Set
          TR: TO 33D7-38-129-1 (68D170009-1001)

19.29.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                           -        -          -

19.29.2   Calibrate                                                                                           -        -          -

19.30     Microwave Signal Generator
          TR: TO 33A1-8-720-4 (1993213-( ))

19.30.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                           -        -          -


                                                                                                                    ATTACHMENT 2


                                                               63
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                  STS 2P0X1
                                                                  2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                   Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                                   Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                 A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                             3        5       7
                                                                                                                        Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                        Level    Level   Level
                                                                  5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                             Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
19.30.2   Calibrate                                                                                                       -        -       -

19.31     Fuel Systems TMDE
          TR: TO 33D7-1-101 (68D290049-1001, 68D29007-
               1007, 68D290056-1003)

19.31.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

19.31.2   Calibrate                                                                                                       -        -          -

19.32     Xmitter Pulse Generator
          TR: TO 33A1-8-719-1 (1993215-1)

19.32.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

19.32.2   Calibrate                                                                                                       -        -          -

19.33     Data Link Simulator
          TR: TO 33D7-88-14-1 (ANGJM59)

19.33.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

19.33.2   Calibrate                                                                                                       -        -          -

19.34     TISS Standard Mismatch Equipment
          TR: TO 33D7-80-1193-1-1
          (C280-192/193)

19.34.1   Align                                                                                                           -        -          -

19.34.2   Calibrate                                                                                                       -        -          -

19.35     Microwave Signal Switching Unit (MSSU)
          TR: TO 33DA86-57-1 (6406804)

19.35.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

19.35.2   Calibrate                                                                                                       -        -          -

19.36     Special Test Station Support Equipment Low Noise Test
          System
          TR: Comm Data (8780A-K21)

19.36.1   Use                                                                                                             -        -          -

19.36.2   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                       -        -          -

19.36.3   Calibrate                                                                                                       -        -          -

19.37     Flight Director Test Set
          TR: TO 33D3-4-150-1 (980L1)

19.37.1   Use                                                                                                             -        -          -

19.37.2   Align                                                                                                           -        -          -

19.37.3   Calibrate                                                                                                       -        -          -




                                                                                                                                ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                           64
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                            STS 2P0X1
                                                            2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                             Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                     Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                           A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                       3        5       7
                                                                                                                  Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                  Level    Level   Level
                                                            5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                       Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
19.38     Electronic Test Set
          TR: TO 33D7-38-215-2 (AN/USM-603)

19.38.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair

19.38.2   Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -

19.39     AFCS System Test Set
          TR: TO 33D3-9-166-1 (AN/ASM-497)

19.39.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                 -        -          -

19.39.2   Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -

20        F-15E PECULIAR ITEMS
          TR: Specific Equipment TO and/or Comm Data

20.1      STORES Management/Fire Control Subsystem
          TR: TOs 33D5-63-5-1 (A/E24T-197), 33D5-12-231-1
              (A/E24T-198)

20.1.1    Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                 -        -          -

20.1.2    Calibrate

20.2      RF Power Test Set
          TR: TO 33D5-12-152-1 (TS2059AWM18)

20.2.1    Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                 -        -          -

20.2.2    Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -

20.3      Calibration Module
          TR: TO 33D7-33-247-1 (654334-1)

20.3.1    Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                 -        -          -

20.3.2    Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -

20.4      Remote Map reader PIU
          TR: TO 33D7-50-1297-1 (A06G2860-1)

20.4.1    Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                 -        -          -

20.4.2    Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -

20.5      Air Inlet Control PIU
          TR: TO 33D7-50-1439-1 (A06G2864-1)

20.5.1    Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                 -        -          -

20.5.2    Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -

20.6      Air Data Computer
          TR: TO 33D7-50-1426-1 (A06G2865-1)

20.6.1    Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                 -        -          -

20.6.2    Calibrate                                                                                                 -        -          -




                                                                                                                          ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                     65
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                               STS 2P0X1
                                               2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL              A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                          3        5       7
                                                                                                     Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                     Level    Level   Level
                                               5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                          Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
20.7      UHF Receiver-Transmitter PIU
          TR: TO 33D7-50-1474-1 (A06G2867-1)

20.7.1    Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                    -        -          -

20.7.2    Calibrate                                                                                    -        -          -

20.8      IFF Receiver-Transmitter PIU
          TR: TO 33D7-50-1401-1 (A06G2868-1)

20.8.1    Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                    -        -          -

20.8.2    Calibrate                                                                                    -        -          -

20.9      TACAN Unit PIU
          TR: TO 33D7-50-1400-1 (A06G2869-1)

20.9.1    Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                    -        -          -

20.9.2    Calibrate                                                                                    -        -          -

20.10     ILS Unit PIU
          TR: TO 33D7-50-1341-1 (A06G2870-1)

20.10.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                    -        -          -

20.10.2 Calibrate                                                                                      -        -          -

20.11     Antenna Noise Analyzer
          TR: TO 33D7-10-76-1 (1992518-4)

20.11.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                    -        -          -

20.11.2   Calibrate                                                                                    -        -          -

20.12     Guided Missile Launcher Test Set
          TR: TO 33D9-45-34-1 (A/E24T-140)

20.12.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                    -        -          -

20.12.2   Calibrate                                                                                    -        -          -

20.13     Armament System Test Set
          TR: TO 33D5-12-204-4 (AN/AWM-72)

20.13.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                    -        -          -

20.13.2   Calibrate

20.14     Coolant Processing Unit
          TR: TO 33D7-35-58-2 (3598386-3)

20.14.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                    -        -          -

20.14.2   Calibrate                                                                                    -        -          -

20.15     Microwave Interfaces
          TR: Comm Data (6457373-1)

20.15.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                    -        -          -


                                                                                                             ATTACHMENT 2


                                                        66
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                           STS 2P0X1
                                                           2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                            Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                            Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                    Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                          A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                      3        5       7
                                                                                                                 Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                 Level    Level   Level
                                                           5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                      Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
20.15.2   Calibrate                                                                                                -        -       -

21        F-16 TMDE
          TR: Specific Equipment TO and/or Comm Data

21.1      Avionics Multiplexers (AMUX)
          TR: TO 33D7-45-73-1 (624-( ))

21.1.1    Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                -        -          -

21.1.2    Calibrate                                                                                                -        -          -

21.2      Emergency Power Unit (EPU) Test Set
          TR: TO 33D7-38-102-1 (912476-( ))

21.2.1    Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                -        -          -

21.2.2    Calibrate                                                                                                -        -          -

21.3      Permissive Action Link/Unique Signal Generator
          Multiplexer (PAL/USG/MUX)
          TR: TO 33D7-45-60-1 (568-( ))

21.3.1    Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                -        -          -

21.4      Preload Armament Circuit Test Set
          TR: TO 33D5-3-47-1 (16U75060-( ))

21.4.1    Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                -        -          -

21.4.2    Calibrate                                                                                                -        -          -

21.5      STORES Management System (SMS) Breakout Box
          TR: TO 33D7-45-59-1 (16UE75517-( ))

21.5.1    Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                -        -          -

21.5.2    Calibrate                                                                                                -        -          -

21.6      STORES Management System (SMS)
          TR: TOs 33D5-63-3-1 (16UE75501-( )),
          33D5-63-23-1 (SST)

21.6.1    Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                -        -          -

21.6.2    Calibrate                                                                                                -        -          -

21.7      STORES Release Equipment (SRE)
          TR: TO 33D5-63-2-1 (16UE75500-( )),
          33D5-63-23-1 (SST)

21.7.1    Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                -        -          -

21.7.2    Calibrate                                                                                                -        -          -

21.8      Electrical Engine Test Set
          TR: TO 33D2-3-98-1 (729900)

21.8.1    Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                -        -          -

21.8.2    Calibrate                                                                                                -        -          -

                                                                                                                         ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                    67
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                   STS 2P0X1
                                                   2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                    Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                    Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                            Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                  A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                              3        5       7
                                                                                                         Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                         Level    Level   Level
                                                   5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                              Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
21.9      Brake Pressure Test Set
          TR: TO 33D2-23-26-1 (10012-( ))

21.9.1    Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                        -        -          -

21.9.2    Calibrate                                                                                        -        -          -

21.10     EPU Sensing Monitor
          TR: TO 33D7-86-26-1 (16U42554-1)

21.10.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                        -        -          -

21.10.2   Calibrate                                                                                        -        -          -

21.11     Display Monitor
          TR: TO 33D7-38 (606*20)

21.11.1   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                              -        -          -

21.11.2   Calibrate

21.12     Service Life Monitor Test Set
          TR: TO 33D7-38-103-1 (7953A77-( ))

21.12.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                        -        -          -

21.12.2   Calibrate                                                                                        -        -          -

21.13     Engine Warning Test Set
          TR: TO 33D2-19-12-1 (16UE23510-( ))

21.13.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                        -        -          -

21.13.2   Calibrate                                                                                        -        -          -

21.14     INU Battery Tester TS
          TR: TO 35C3-2-82-1 (16U74512-( ))

21.14.1   Use                                                                                              -        -          -

21.14.2   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                        -        -          -

21.14.3   Calibrate                                                                                        -        -          -

21.15     Calibration Adapter
          TR: TO 33D7-38-306-1 (2215100-() F-16)

21.15.1   Align                                                                                            -        -          -

21.15.2   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                              -        -          -

21.15.3   Calibrate                                                                                        -        -          -




                                                                                                                 ATTACHMENT 2


                                                            68
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                             STS 2P0X1
                                                             2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                              Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                              Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                            A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                        3        5       7
                                                                                                                   Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                   Level    Level   Level
                                                             5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                        Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
22       SPECIAL TMDE
         TR: 33K-1-100-1, 33K Series

22.1     Combustible/Toxic Gas Alarms/Analyzers
         TR: TOs 11H2-9-1 (AE23T4), 11H5-14-1 (R2), 11H5-
             20-1 (TBC-1), 11H5-35-1 (514M); Comm Data
             (M8A1,PGM-50 SERIES)

22.1.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                   -        -          -

22.1.2   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -

22.2     TACAN Test Set
         TR: TOs 33D2-8-356 (AN/ARM-135A), 33D7-71-23
             (AN/ARM-162)

22.2.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                   -        -          -

22.2.2   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -

22.3     ILS/VOR Standards
         TR: Comm Data (5401, CIVS, ZIFOR)

22.3.1   Use                                                                                                         -        -          -

22.3.2   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                   -        -          -

22.3.3   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -

22.4     ILS/VOR Test Sets
         TR: TOs 33A1-3-504 (AN/ARM-186), 33D7-71-52-1
              (AN/ARM-201)

22.4.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                   -        -          -

22.4.2   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -

22.5     IFF/SIF Transponder Test Set
         TR: TOs 33A1-3-426 (AN/UPM-137A), 33D7-4-14-9-
              1, 2, 4 (AN/UPM-155), 33D7-29-52-1
              (AN/APM424V( )), 33D9-62-5 (AN/APM-
              270V3); Comm Data (AN/APM-480)

22.5.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                   -        -          -

22.5.2   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -

22.6     Joint Oil Analysis Program
         TR: TOs 33A6-7-24 (A/E 35U-3), 33B4-2-29-1
               (Spectroil M)

22.6.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                   -        -          -

22.6.2   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -

22.7     Engine Trim Boxes, JetCal Test Set
         TR: TOs 33D4-6-555-4 (BH112JB40), 33D4-6-556-1
              (A/E24T141/PWA 50081), 33D7-3-175-11 (H301-(
              ))

22.7.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                   -        -          -

                                                                                                                           ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                      69
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                       STS 2P0X1
                                                                       2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                        Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                                        Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                                Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                      A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                                  3        5       7
                                                                                                                             Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                             Level    Level   Level
                                                                       5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                                  Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
22.7.2    Calibrate                                                                                                            -        -       -

22.8      Aircraft Engine Test Stand, Test Stand Calibration Trailer
          TR: TOs 00-25-238, 33D4-6-212-44 (AM 37T-20, AM
               37T-21), 33D4-6-680 (AM 99T-2)

22.8.1    Use                                                                                                                  -        -          -

22.8.2    Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                            -        -          -

22.8.3    Calibrate                                                                                                            -        -          -

22.9      Munitions Test Set
          TR: TO 33D5-24-14-2 (AN/GJM-55); Comm Data
              (AN/GJM-64)

22.9.1    Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                            -        -          -

22.9.2    Calibrate                                                                                                            -        -          -

22.10     Air Data/Environmental Test Sets
          TR: TOs 33D2-39-26-1 (TTU 415( )), 33D7-3-60
               (TTU 205( ))

22.10.1   Use                                                                                                                  -        -          -

22.10.2   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                            -        -          -

22.10.3   Calibrate                                                                                                            -        -          -

22.11     Emergency Radio Test Set/Telecommunications Service
          Monitor
          TR: TOs 33D7-71-42-1 (TS24B), 33A1-12-1420-1 (TS-
          4317-1), 33D7-4-87-1 (2947)
22.11.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                            -        -          -

22.11.2   Calibrate                                                                                                            -        -          -

22.12     Transmission/Telecommunication TMDE
          TR: TOs 33A1-3-533-2 (HATS2), 33A1-8-1041 (),
               33A1-13-505-1 (3551A, 4935A); Comm Data
               (FM/AM1500, 702)

22.12.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                            -        -          -

22.12.2   Calibrate                                                                                                            -        -          -

22.13     Missile Guidance TMDE
          TR: TOs 33D5-12-187-1 (AN/ASM-184( )V2),
               33D9-54-62-1 (AN/DSM-157), 33D9-61-39-1
               (AN/DSM-129); Comm Data (TS4044( ),
               AN/DSM-162)

22.13.1   Use                                                                                                                  -        -          -

22.13.2   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                            -        -          -

22.13.3   Calibrate                                                                                                            -        -          -




                                                                                                                                     ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                                70
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                               STS 2P0X1
                                                               2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                                Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                              A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                          3        5       7
                                                                                                                     Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                     Level    Level   Level
                                                               5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                          Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
22.14     Doppler radar TMDE/Radar Guns
          TR: Comm Data (K15, KR10SP, S900-12)

22.14.1   Use                                                                                                          -        -          -

22.14.2   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                          -        -          -

22.14.3   Calibrate                                                                                                    -        -          -

22.15     Sound Calibration System
          TR: Comm Data (U9801, QC-10)

22.15.1   Use                                                                                                          -        -          -

22.15.2   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                    -        -          -

22.15.3   Calibrate                                                                                                    -        -          -

22.16     Sound/Audio TMDE
          TR: Comm Data (9DB310, DB3100, MK( ))

22.16.1   Use                                                                                                          -        -          -

22.16.2   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                    -        -          -

22.16.3   Calibrate                                                                                                    -        -          -

22.17     Infrared Target Simulator TMDE
          TR: TO 33D9-14-70-1 (SM787DSM)

22.17.1   Use                                                                                                          -        -          -

22.17.2   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                    -        -          -

22.17.3   Calibrate                                                                                                    -        -          -

22.18    Interrogator/Transponder Electronic Warfare Systems
         TMDE
     TR: TO 33D7-8-115-1 (AN/APM-427); Comm Data
         AN/PLM-4)
22.18.1 Use                                                                                                            -        -          -

22.18.2   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                    -        -          -

22.18.3   Calibrate                                                                                                    -        -          -

22.19     LANTIRN Support Equipment
          TR: TO 33D7-45-90-8-1 (AN/AAM-82)

22.19.1   Use                                                                                                          -        -          -

22.19.2   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                    -        -          -

22.20     Radio receiver Test Sets
          TR: TO 33D7-36-42-1 (AN/GRM-112), 33A1-12-
               1420-1 (TS-4317)

22.20.1   Use                                                                                                          -        -          -

22.20.2   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                    -        -          -


                                                                                                                             ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                        71
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                             STS 2P0X1
                                                             2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                              Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                              Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                            A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                        3        5       7
                                                                                                                   Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                   Level    Level   Level
                                                             5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                        Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
22.20.3   Calibrate                                                                                                  -        -       -

22.21     Countermeasures Test Set
          TR: TOs 33D7-13-75 (AN/ALM-177( )), 33D7-13-288-
          1 (AN/ALM-288); Comm Data (AN/ALM-233C)

22.21.1   Use                                                                                                        -        -          -

22.21.2   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                  -        -          -

22.21.3   Calibrate                                                                                                  -        -          -

22.22     Angle Position Indicator
          TR: TOs 33AA45-7 (8300( )), 33D7-20-72-1 (545A)

22.22.1   Use                                                                                                        -        -          -

22.22.2   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                  -        -          -

22.22.3   Calibrate                                                                                                  -        -          -

22.23     Synchro/Resolver Standard
          TR: TOs 33D2-8-302 (A202S5), 33D7-8-98-1
              (530S741)

22.23.1   Use                                                                                                        -        -          -

22.23.2   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                  -        -          -

22.23.3   Calibrate                                                                                                  -        -          -

22.24     Fuel Quantity Test Sets
          TR: TO 33D2-3-86 (GTF-6)

22.24.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                  -        -          -

22.24.2   Calibrate                                                                                                  -        -          -

22.25     RF Transmission Line Test Set
          TR: Comm data (AN/USM-638, 8328A)

22.25.1   Use                                                                                                        -        -          -

22.25.2   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                  -        -          -

22.25.3   Calibrate                                                                                                  -        -          -

22.26     Oxygen Regulator Field Tester
          TR: TOs 33D2-10-55-1 (31TA655-2), 33D2-10-67-1
              (3300223-6001)

22.26.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                  -        -          -

22.26.2   Calibrate                                                                                                  -        -          -

22.27     Defibrillator Testing Device
          TR: Comm Data (3000, 3100B)

22.27.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                  -        -          -

22.27.2   Calibrate                                                                                                  -        -          -

                                                                                                                           ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                      72
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                       STS 2P0X1
                                                       2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                        Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                        Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                      A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                  3        5       7
                                                                                                             Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                             Level    Level   Level
                                                       5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                  Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
22.28     Safety Analyzer
          TR: Comm Data (431F, 501PR)

22.28.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                            -        -          -

22.28.2   Calibrate                                                                                            -        -          -

22.29     Radar Test Sets
          TR: TO 33D7-44-225 (AN/UPM-145)

22.29.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                            -        -          -

22.29.2   Calibrate                                                                                            -        -          -

22.30     Aircraft Compass calibration Test Sets
          TR: TO 5N3-3-7 (MC1-( ))

22.30.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                            -        -          -

22.30.2   Calibrate                                                                                            -        -          -

22.31     Aircraft Electrical Wiring Test Sets
          TR: TO 33D7-38-79-1 (AN/USM-430)

22.31.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                            -        -          -

22.31.2   Calibrate                                                                                            -        -          -

22.32     Night Vision Test Sets
          TR: Comm Data (ANV-126-085-CAL, ANV-20-20,
               ANV-126-( ))

22.32.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                            -        -          -

22.32.2   Calibrate                                                                                            -        -          -

22.33     Radiometer
          TR: Comm Data (12-550)

22.33.1   Use                                                                                                  -        -          -

22.34     Vector Network Analyzer
          TR: Comm Data (SM 4515)

22.34.1   Use                                                                                                  -        -          -

22.34.2   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                            -        -          -

22.34.3   Calibrate                                                                                            -        -          -

22.35     Digital Barometer/Altimeter Set
          TR: TO 33M1-26M62 (ML658GM)

22.35.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                            -        -          -

22.35.2   Calibrate                                                                                            -        -          -




                                                                                                                     ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                73
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                              STS 2P0X1
                                                              2.       3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                               Core                                                Used To Indicate
                                                               Tasks                                               Training/Information
       Tasks                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                             A    B      A          B          C          D          A        B       C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                         3        5       7
                                                                                                                    Skill    Skill   Skill
                                                                                                                    Level    Level   Level
                                                              5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer      (1)      (1)     (1)
                                                                         Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Crse     CDC     CDC
22.36     Manside Test Set
          TR: TO 33D2-10-68-1 (F278-5700-1); Comm Data
              (TTU 529E)

22.36.1   Align/Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                   -        -          -

22.36.2   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -

22.37     Portable Balancing System
          TR: TO 33A1-16-1 (PBS-4100)

22.37.1   Align                                                                                                       -        -          -

22.37.2   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                         -        -          -

22.37.3   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -

22.38     Common Munitions Test Set
          TR: TO 33D7-3-372-1 (AN/GYQ79)
            TO 33D9-53-108-1 (AN/GYQ75)

22.38.1   Align                                                                                                       -        -          -

22.38.2   Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                         -        -          -

22.38.3   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -

22.39     Laser Guided Bomb Test Set
          TR: Comm Data (200535434-30), (TTU595/E)
22.39.1   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -
22.40     Laser Detecting Test Set
          TR: Comm Data (200535534-10), (TTU-604 A/E)
22.40.1   Use                                                                                                         -        -          -
22.41     Joint Service Mask Leakage Tester Calibration Set
          TR: Comm Data (JSMLT-V109)
22.41.1   Use                                                                                                         -        -          -
22.42     Joint Service Mask Leakage Tester
          TR: Comm Data (JSMLT)
22.42.1   Calibrate                                                                                                   -        -          -




                                                                                                                            ATTACHMENT 2


                                                                       74
                                                           Electronic Principles Course Training Standard (CTS)


Section B - Electronic Principles CTS E3AQR2P031 048C
1 ELECTRONICS SUPPORT SUBJECTS

1.1 Safety                                                                                     B
1.2 First Aid                                                                                  A
1.3 Electrostatic Discharge (ESD) Control                                                      B
1.4 Electromagnetic Effects (EMP/EMI)                                                          B
1.5 Metric Notation
1.5.1 Calculate Powers of Ten                                                                  B
1.5.2 Electrical Prefixes                                                                      B
2 USE TEST EQUIPMENT

2.1 Analog Multimeter                                                                          2b
2.2 Digital Multimeter                                                                         2b
2.3 Oscilloscope                                                                               2b
2.4 Signal/Function Generator                                                                  2b
3 BASIC CIRCUITS

3.1 Direct Current (DC)
3.1.1 Theory                                                                                   B
3.1.2 Calculations                                                                             B
3.2 Alternating Current (AC)
3.2.1 Theory                                                                                   B
3.2.2 Calculations                                                                             B
4 BASIC CIRCUIT COMPONENTS

4.1 Resistors
4.1.1 Theory                                                                                   B
4.1.2 Color Code                                                                               B
4.1.3 Troubleshoot (Calculate and measure)                                                     2b
4.2 Inductors
4.2.1 Theory                                                                                   B
4.2.2 Troubleshoot                                                                             2b
4.3 Capacitors
4.3.1 Theory                                                                                   B
4.3.2 Troubleshoot                                                                             2b
4.4 Resistive-Capacitive-Inductive (RCL) Circuits Theory
4.4.1 Basic                                                                                    B
4.4.2 Resonant                                                                                 B
4.4.3 Frequency Sensitive Filter                                                               B
5 ELECTROMAGNETIC DEVICES

5.1 Transformers
5.1.1 Theory                                                                                   B
5.1.2 Troubleshoot                                                                             2b
5.2 Relays and Solenoids
5.2.1 Theory                                                                                   B
5.2.2 Troubleshoot Relay                                                                       2b
5.3 Motor Theory
5.3.1 DC                                                                                       A
5.3.2 AC                                                                                       A
5.4 Generator Theory


                                                                                                    ATTACHMENT 3
                                                            75
                                                         Electronic Principles Course Training Standard (CTS)

5.4.1 DC                                                                                     A
5.4.2 AC                                                                                     A
5.5 Synchro/Servo
5.5.1 Theory                                                                                 A
5.6 Transducer
5.6.1 Theory                                                                                 B
6 SOLID STATE DEVICES

6.1 Diodes
6.1.1 Theory                                                                                 B
6.1.2 Troubleshoot                                                                           2b
6.2 Transistors
6.2.1 Theory                                                                                 B
6.2.2 Transistor Troubleshooting                                                             2b
6.3 Special Purpose Device Theory
6.3.1 Zener Diode                                                                            B
6.3.2 Light Emitting Diode (LED)                                                             B
6.3.3 Field Effect Transistors (FETs), MOSFETs, JFETs                                        B
6.3.4 Integrated Circuits (IC)                                                               B
6.3.5 Operational Amplifiers                                                                 B
7 TRANSISTOR AMPLIFIER CIRCUITS

7.1 Theory                                                                                   B
7.2 Stabilization                                                                            B
7.3 Coupling                                                                                 B
8 POWER SUPPLY CIRCUITS

8.1 Theory
8.1.1 Rectifiers                                                                             B
8.1.2 Filters                                                                                B
8.1.3 Voltage Regulators                                                                     B
8.2 Troubleshoot Power Supply                                                                2b
9 WAVE GENERATING CIRCUITS

9.1 Theory
9.1.1 Oscillators                                                                            B
9.1.2 Multivibrators                                                                         B
9.1.3 Waveshaping Circuits                                                                   B
10 DIGITAL NUMBERING SYSTEMS

10.1 Conversions
10.1.1 Binary                                                                                A
10.1.2 Hexadecimal                                                                           A
10.1.3 Binary Coded Decimal                                                                  A
10.2 Hexadecimal Math Operations                                                             A
11 DIGITAL LOGIC CIRCUITS

11.1 Theory
11.1.1 Gates                                                                                 B
11.1.2 Flip Flops                                                                            B
11.2 Digital to Analog (DA) and Analog to Digital (AD) Converters Theory                     B




                                                                                                  ATTACHMENT 3
                                                           76
                                              Electronic Principles Course Training Standard (CTS)

12 BASIC COMMUNICATIONS THEORY

12.1 Antenna                                                                      A
12.2 Transmission Lines                                                           A
12.3 Data Bus                                                                     A
12.4 Waveguide                                                                    A
12.5 Fiber Optics                                                                 A
12.6 Transmitters
12.6.1 Frequency Modulation (FM)                                                  B
12.6.2 Amplitude Modulation (AM)                                                  B
12.7 Receivers
12.7.1 Frequency Modulation (FM)                                                  B
12.7.2 Amplitude Modulation (AM)                                                  B
12.8 AM Receiver Signals
12.8.1 Measure Radio Frequency (RF)                                               1a
12.8.2 Measure Intermediate Frequency (IF)                                        1a
12.8.3 Measure Audio Frequency (AF)                                               1a
12.8.4 Measure Local Oscillator (LO) Output                                       1a




                                                                                       ATTACHMENT 3
                                               77
Section C - COURSE OBJECTIVE LIST

1. Measurement. Each objective is indicated as follows: W indicates task or subject knowledge which
is measured using a written test, PC indicates required task performance which is measured with a
performance progress check, and PC/W indicates separate measurement of both knowledge and
performance elements using a written test and a performance progress check.

2. Standard. The standard is 70% on written examinations. Standards for performance measurement
are indicated in the objective and delineated on the individual progress checklist. Instructor assistance is
provided as needed during the progress check, and students may be required to repeat all or part of the
behavior until satisfactory performance is attained.

3. Most task performance is taught to the “2b” proficiency level which means the students can do most
parts of the task, but does need assistance on the hardest parts of the task (partially proficient). The
student can also determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task.

4. Course Objective List. These objectives are listed in the sequence taught by Block of Instruction.

4.1. Initial Skills Course. E3ABR2P031 0B1B; Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory
Apprentice

4.1.1.   Block I – Metrology Principles

         2a.     Given reference materials, identify terms and definitions that apply to Metrology
                 and the AFMETCAL program with a minimum of 70% accuracy. Task(s): 12.1
                 MEAS: PC/W
         2b.     Given reference materials, use technical information with a minimum of 70%
                 accuracy. Task(s): 5.3 MEAS: PC/W
         2c.     Identify terms applying to Operational Security (OPSEC) that are specific to AFSC
                 2P0X1 with a minimum of 70% accuracy. Task(s): 2.1 MEAS: PC/W
         2d.     Given reference materials, identify facts regarding the proper use and care of hand
                 tools with a minimum of 70% accuracy. Task(s): 12.5 MEAS: PC/W
         2e.     Identify terms and characteristics of cables and connectors with a minimum of 70%
                 accuracy. Task(s): 12.4 MEAS: PC/W
         2f.     Identify terms and characteristics of Surface Mount Technology with a minimum of
                 70% accuracy. Task(s): 12.3 MEAS: PC/W
         2g.     Given reference materials, identify principles associated with Electrostatic
                 Discharge with a minimum of 70% accuracy. Task(s): 12.2 MEAS: PC/W
         3a.     Identify the principles of traceability and substitution of TMDE standards with a
                 minimum of 70% accuracy. Task(s): 12.7 MEAS: PC/W
         3b.     Given appropriate equations, perform various calculations involving error,
                 correction and correction factors with a minimum of 70% accuracy. Task(s):
                 13.1.13 MEAS: PC/W
         3c.     Given appropriate equations, calculate tolerances using equipment specifications
                 with a minimum of 70% accuracy. Task(s): 13.1.18 MEAS: PC/W
                                                                                               ATTACHMENT 5
                                                      78
         3d.    Identify general principles about interpolating readings, charts, or graphs with a
                minimum of 70% accuracy. Task(s): 13.1.15 MEAS: PC/W
         3e.    Identify basic facts about uncertainty analysis with a minimum of 70% accuracy.
                Task(s): 13.2.4 MEAS: PC/W
         3f.    Identify the principles of gross, systematic, and random errors with a minimum of
                70% accuracy. Task(s): 13.1.14 MEAS: PC/W
         4a.    Identify basic facts about the potential safety hazards associated with the 2P0X1-
                career field with a minimum of 70% accuracy. Task(s): 3.1 MEAS: PC/W
         4c.    Identify basic facts and terms for maintaining hazardous materials. Task(s): 4.1, 4.2,
                4.3 MEAS: PC/W
4.1.2.   Block II – TMDE Use and Maintenance
         1a.    Given technical data, soldering tools and appropriate parts, solder a wire to a
                terminal connector with no more than three (3) instructor assists. Task(s): 13.3.7.1
                MEAS: PC
                        (1) Safety
                        (2) Procedures/Pre-laboratory
                        (3) Lab exercise
         1b.    Given technical data, soldering tools and appropriate parts, desolder a wire from a
                terminal connector with no more than three (3) instructor assists. Task(s): 13.3.7.1
                MEAS: PC
                        (1) Safety
                        (2) Procedures/Pre-laboratory
                        (3) Lab exercise
         1c.    Given technical data, soldering tools and appropriate parts, solder three components
                to a printed circuit board with no more than three (3) instructor assists. Task(s):
                13.3.7.2 MEAS: PC
                        (1) Safety
                        (2) Procedures/Pre-laboratory
                        (3) Lab exercise
         1d.    Given technical data, soldering tools and appropriate parts, desolder three
                components from a printed circuit board with no more than three (3) instructor
                assists. Task(s): 13.3.7.2 MEAS: PC
                        (1) Safety
                        (2) Procedures/Pre-laboratory
                        (3) Lab exercise
         1e.    Given technical data, soldering tools and appropriate parts, solder a tinned wire into
                a pin for use in a multi-pin connector with no more than three (3) instructor assists.
                Task(s): 13.3.7.3 MEAS: PC
                        (1) Safety
                        (2) Procedures/Pre-laboratory
                        (3) Lab exercise
         1f.    Given technical data, soldering tools and appropriate parts, desolder a wire from a
                pin used in a multi-pin connector with no more than three (3) instructor assists.
                Task(s): 13.3.7.3 MEAS: PC



                                                                                            ATTACHMENT 5
                                                    79
              (1) Safety
              (2) Procedures/Pre-laboratory
              (3) Lab exercise
2a.   Given technical data, tools and appropriate parts, splice two wires together using a
      crimp connector with no more than three (3) instructor assists. Task(s): 13.3.8.1
      MEAS: PC
              (1) Safety
              (2) Procedures/Pre-laboratory
              (3) Lab exercise
2b.   Given technical data, tools and appropriate parts, crimp a terminal lug to a wire with
      no more than three (3) instructor assists. Task(s): 13.3.8.1 MEAS: PC
              (1) Safety
              (2) Procedures/Pre-laboratory
              (3) Lab exercise
2c.   Given technical data, tools and appropriate parts, assemble a solderless coaxial cable
      connector to a coaxial cable with no more than three (3) instructor assists. Task(s):
      13.3.8.2 MEAS: PC
              (1) Safety
              (2) Procedures/Pre-laboratory
              (3) Lab exercise
2d.   Given technical data, tools and appropriate parts, crimp a wire into a pin for use in a
      multi-pin connector with no more than three (3) instructor assists. Task(s): 13.3.8.3
      MEAS: PC
              (1) Safety
              (2) Procedures/Pre-laboratory
              (3) Lab exercise
2e.   Given technical data, tools and appropriate parts, assemble a multi-pin connector
      with no more than three (3) instructor assists. Task(s): 13.3.8.3 MEAS: PC
              (1) Safety
              (2) Procedures/Pre-laboratory
              (3) Lab exercise
3a.   Given a function generator, and TMDE measure specific signal parameters with no
      more than three (3) instructor assists. Task(s): 14.13.1, 14.15.1, 15.2.1, 15.17.1,
      15.20.1 MEAS: PC/W
              (1) Use Function generator
              (2) Use Analog Multimeter
              (3) Use Oscilloscope
              (4) Use Digital Multimeter
              (5) Use Electronic Counter/Timer
3b.   Given TMDE and technical data, standardize and use a high accuracy digital
      multimeter with no more than one (1) instructor assist. Task(s): 14.14.1 MEAS:
      PC/W
              (1) Standardize DMM
              (2) Use DMM



                                                                                   ATTACHMENT 5
                                          80
         3c.    Given TMDE and technical data, troubleshoot a function generator to a faulty
                component with no more than two (2) instructor assists. Task(s): 13.24, 15.2.3
                MEAS: PC/W
                        (1) Theory of Function Generator
                        (2) Troubleshooting Techniques
                        (3) Troubleshoot Function Generator
4.1.3.   Block III - Meters
         1a.    Identify basic facts about Foreign Object Damage (FOD). Task(s): 13.3.3
         1b.    Given TMDE and technical data, calibrate an analog multimeter with no more than
                two (2) instructor assists. Task(s): 14.1.1, 14.12.1, 14.13.1, 14.13.4 MEAS: PC/W
                        (1) Use an instrument calibrator
                        (2) Use a resistance standard
                        (3) Use an analog multimeter
                        (4) Calibrate an analog multimeter
         1c.    Given TMDE and technical data, troubleshoot an analog multimeter to a faulty
                component with no more than two (2) instructor assists. Task(s): 14.13.3 MEAS:
                PC/W

         1d.    Given TMDE and technical data, align an analog multimeter with no more than two
                (2) instructor assists. Task(s): 14.13.2 MEAS: PC/W
         2a.    Given TMDE and technical data, perform an input wiring and fuse check with no
                more than two (2) instructor assists. Task(s): 13.3.4 MEAS: PC/W
         2b.    Given TMDE and technical data, calibrate a digital multimeter with no more than
                two (2) instructor assists. Task(s): 14.5.1, 14.15.1, 14.15.4, 14.30.1 MEAS: PC/W
                        (1) Use a high voltage probe
                        (2) Use a DC voltage divider
                        (3) Use a digital multimeter
                        (4) Calibrate a digital multimeter
         2c.    Given appropriate technical data, theoretically troubleshoot a digital multimeter to
                the faulty component with a minimum of 70% accuracy. Task(s): 14.15.3 MEAS:
                PC/W
                        (1) Schematic analysis of a digital voltmeter
                        (2) Theoretical troubleshooting
         2d.    Given TMDE and technical data, align a digital multimeter with no more than two
                (2) instructor assists. Task(s): 14.15.2 MEAS: PC/W
         3a.    Given TMDE and technical data, calibrate an AC voltmeter with no more than two
                (2) instructor assists. Task(s): 14.27.1, 14.27.4 MEAS: PC/W
                        (1) Use AC voltmeter
                        (2) Calibrate AC voltmeter
         3b.    Given TMDE and technical data, align an AC voltmeter with no more than two (2)
                instructor assists. Task(s): 14.27.2 MEAS: PC/W
4.1.4.   Block IV - Advanced Measurement Techniques
         1a.    Given a digital multimeter, test oscillator, distortion analyzer, thermal voltage
                converter, and measuring receiver, measure specific signal parameters of generated
                signals with no more than three (3) instructor assists. Task(s): 15.6.1, 15.9.1,
                15.10.1, 15.19.1, 16.1.1, 16.7.1 MEAS: PC/W
                                                                                           ATTACHMENT 5
                                                   81
                       (1) Use Thermal Voltage Converter
                       (2) Use Test Oscillator
                       (3) Use Feedthrough Termination
                       (4) Use Distortion Analyzer
                       (5) Use Measuring Receiver
                       (6) Use Fixed Attenuator
         1b.   Given TMDE and technical data, calibrate a test oscillator with no more than three
               (3) instructor assists. Task(s): 15.6.4 MEAS: PC/W
         1c.   Given TMDE and technical data, troubleshoot a test oscillator with no more than
               two (2) instructor assists. Task(s): 15.6.3 MEAS: PC/W
         1d.   Given TMDE and technical data, align a test oscillator with no more than two (2)
               instructor assists. Task(s): 15.6.2 MEAS: PC/W
         2a.   Given a distortion analyzer and a ratio transformer, measure specific signal
               parameters of generated signals with no more than three (3) instructor assists.
               Task(s): 14.6.1, 15.10.1 MEAS: PC/W
                       (1) Use Distortion Analyzer
                       (2) Use Ratio Transformer
         2b.   Given TMDE and technical data, calibrate a distortion analyzer with no more than
               three (3) instructor assists. Task(s): 15.10.4 MEAS: PC/W
         2c.   Given TMDE and technical data, troubleshoot a distortion analyzer with no more
               than two (2) instructor assists. Task(s): 15.10.3 MEAS: PC/W
         2d.   Given TMDE and technical data, align a distortion analyzer with no more than two
               (2) instructor assists. Task(s): 15.10.2 MEAS: PC/W
4.1.5.   Block V - Oscilloscope and Waveform Analysis
         1a.   Given TMDE and Technical Data, use an oscilloscope calibrator to generate
               specified outputs with no more than two (2) instructor assists. Task(s): 15.4.1
               MEAS: PC/W
         1b.   Given TMDE and technical data, use a digitizing oscilloscope to measure specified
               outputs with no more than two (2) instructor assists. Task(s): 15.24.1 MEAS:
               PC/W
         1c.   Given TMDE and technical data, calibrate an oscilloscope with no more than two
               (2) instructor assists. Task(s): 15.20.4 MEAS: PC/W
         1d.   Given TMDE and technical data, troubleshoot an oscilloscope to a faulty stage with
               no more than two (2) instructor assists. Task(s): 15.20.3 MEAS: PC/W
         1e.   Given TMDE and technical data, perform selected alignments of an oscilloscope
               with no more than two (2) instructor assists. Task(s): 15.20.2 MEAS: PC/W
4.1.6.   Block VI – Precise Frequency Measurement, Synthesis and Power
         1a.   Given appropriate equations, perform calculations involving power ratios, dBs, and
               dBms with a minimum of 70% accuracy. Task(s): 13.1.1 MEAS: PC/W
         1b.   Given a power meter, TMDE and applicable technical data, perform measurements
               in selected functions and ranges with no more than two (2) instructor assists.
               Task(s): 16.4.1 MEAS: PC/W
         1c.   Given the synthesized function generator, frequency synthesizer, applicable TMDE,
               and necessary technical data, generate specified outputs with no more than two (2)
               instructor assists. Task(s): 15.2.1, 15.8.1 MEAS: PC/W


                                                                                        ATTACHMENT 5
                                                  82
                       (1) Generate specific signals using the 3325B Generator
                       (2) Generate specific signals using the 8340B Generator
         1d.   Identify facts regarding frequency synthesis with a minimum of 70% accuracy.
               Task(s): 13.1.17 MEAS: PC/W
         1e.   Given TMDE and applicable technical data, use precise frequency to calculate the
               frequency offset of a frequency standard internal oscillator with no more than one
               (1) instructor assist. Task(s): 15.14.1 MEAS: PC/W
         2a.   Given TMDE and applicable technical data, calibrate the power meter with no more
               than two (2) instructor assists. Task(s): 16.4.4, 16.16.1 MEAS: PC/W
                       (1) Generate specific levels with the Power Meter Calibrator
                       (2) Use of the 432A Power Meter
                       (3) Calibrate the Power Meter using the Power Meter Calibrator
         2b.   Given TMDE and applicable technical data, troubleshoot the power meter to the
               faulty component with no more than three (3) instructor assists. Task(s): 16.4.3
               MEAS: PC/W
         2c.   Given TMDE and applicable technical data, align the power meter with no more
               than two (2) instructor assists Task(s): 16.4.2 MEAS: PC/W
         3a.   Given a frequency counter, TMDE and applicable technical data, perform
               measurements in selected functions and ranges with no more than two (2) instructor
               assists. Task(s): 15.17.1 MEAS: PC/W
         3b.   Given TMDE and applicable technical data, calibrate the frequency counter with no
               more than two (2) instructor assists. Task(s): 15.17.4 MEAS: PC/W
         3c.   Given TMDE and applicable technical data, troubleshoot the frequency counter to
               the faulty component with no more than three (3) instructor assists. Task(s): 15.17.3
               MEAS: PC/W
4.1.7.   Block VII – Signal Generation Measurements
         1a.   Identify basic facts and terms about frequency, time, and data domains with a
               minimum of 70% accuracy. Task(s): 13.1.16 MEAS: PC/W
                       (1) Frequency Domain
                       (2) Time Domain
                       (3) Data Domain
         1b.   Given a signal generator, function generator, and spectrum analyzer, measure
               specific signal parameters with no more than three (3) instructor assists. Task(s):
               13.1.5, 15.2.1, 15.6.1, 15.13.1 MEAS: PC/W
                       (1) Use Signal Generator
                       (2) Use Function Generator
                       (3) Use Spectrum Analyzer
                       (4) Amplitude Modulation
                       (5) Frequency Modulation
                       (6) Pulse Modulation
         1c.   Given TMDE and technical information, calibrate a function generator with no more
               than three (3) instructor assists. Task(s): 15.2.4 MEAS: PC/W
         1d.   Given appropriate technical data, determine alignment procedures for a function
               generator with a minimum of 70% accuracy. Task(s): 15.2.2 MEAS: PC/W



                                                                                          ATTACHMENT 5
                                                   83
         2a.   Given a signal generator, detector, oscilloscope, power meter, power sensor, and
               measuring receiver, measure specific signal parameters of generated signals with no
               more than three (3) instructor assists. Task(s): 15.11.1, 16.3.1, 16.4.1, 16.7.1, 16.8.1
               MEAS: PC/W
                       (1) Use RF Detector
                       (2) Use Power Meter w/Sensor
                       (3) Use Measuring Receiver
         2b.   Given TMDE and technical information, calibrate a signal generator with no more
               than three (3) instructor assists. Task(s): 15.3.1, 15.6.4 MEAS: PC/W
         2c.   Given TMDE and technical information, troubleshoot a signal generator with no
               more than two (2) instructor assists per generator. Task(s): 15.6.3 MEAS: PC/W
         2d.   Given TMDE and technical information, align a signal generator with no more than
               two (2) instructor assists. Task(s): 15.6.2 MEAS: PC/W
4.1.8.   Block VIII – Physical and Dimensional Measurements
         1a.   Given appropriate technical data, identify selected principles of physical and
               dimensional measurements with a minimum of 70% accuracy. Task(s): 13.5, 13.6,
               13.7, 13.8, 13.11, 13.12, 13.14 MEAS: PC/W
                       (1) Temperature
                       (2) Humidity
                       (3) Mass and Weight
                       (4) Linear Dimensions
                       (5) Pressure
                       (6) Vacuum
                       (7) Torque
         1b.   Given appropriate technical data, identify basic facts and terminology associated
               with physical dimensional conversions and temperature standards. Task(s): 13.1.10,
               13.1.11, 13.1.12, 17.9.1 MEAS: W
                       (1) Metric/English Unit Conversions
                       (2) Thermocouple Conversions
                       (3) Pressure Conversions
                       (4) Temperature standards
         1c.   Given appropriate technical data, identify the procedures for calibrating
               temperature-measuring TMDE with a minimum of 70% accuracy. Task(s): 17.10.1,
               17.10.4 MEAS: PC/W
                       (1) Use Temperature-Measuring TMDE
                       (3) Calibrate Temperature-Measuring TMDE
         2a.   Given a scale, standard weight set, and necessary technical data, calibrate a scale
               with no more than two (2) instructor assists. Task(s): 17.22.1, 17.23.1, 17.23.4
               MEAS: PC/W
                       (1) Use Mass/Weight Standards
                       (2) Use Scale
                       (3) Calibrate Scale
         2b.   Given TMDE and necessary technical data, calibrate a micrometer with no more
               than two (2) instructor assists. Task(s): 5.6, 17.1.1, 17.5.1, 17.5.4, 18.6.1 MEAS:
               PC/W


                                                                                             ATTACHMENT 5
                                                    84
                        (1) Use Calibration and Correction Charts
                        (2) Use Gage Blocks
                        (3) Use Optical Flat
                        (4) Use Micrometer
                        (5) Calibrate Micrometer
         2c.    Given a pressure standard, a pressure gauge, and necessary technical data, use the
                pressure standard to calibrate one (1) pressure gauge with no more than two (2)
                instructor assists per gauge. Task(s): 17.17.1, 17.20.1, 17.20.4 MEAS: PC/W
                        (1) Use of Pressure Gauges
                        (2) Use of a Pressure Standard
                        (3) Calibration of Pressure Gauges
         2d.    Given a torque tester/mechanical loader, torque wrenches, and necessary technical
                data, use the torque tester/mechanical loader to calibrate two (2) different types of
                torque wrenches with no more than two (2) instructor assists per torque wrench.
                Task(s): 17.27.1, 17.28.1, 17.28.4 MEAS: PC/W
                        (1) Use Torque Wrenches
                        (2) Use Torque Standard
                        (3) Calibrate Torque Wrenches
4.1.9.   Block IX – Standard PMEL Operations
         1a.    Given appropriate references, identify facts and terms related to a Metrology
                Laboratory with a minimum of 70% accuracy. Task(s): 12.1 MEAS: PC/W
         2a.    Using resources on the worldwide web, select the proper publication for
                maintenance and/or calibration for specific pieces of equipment with no more than
                one (1) instructor assist. Task(s): 5.2 MEAS: PC/W
         2b.    Using the FEDLOG system, research supply data with no more than two (2)
                instructor assists. Task(s): 5.4 MEAS: PC/W
         2c.    Using appropriate references, identify the procedures to complete an AF Form 2005
                with a minimum of 70% accuracy. Task(s): 5.8 MEAS: PC/W
         2d.    Using appropriate references, identify the procedures to complete condition tags
                with a minimum of 70% accuracy. Task(s): 5.10 MEAS: PC/W
         2e.    Identify basic facts of Bench Stock with a minimum of 70% accuracy. Task(s): 12.6
                MEAS: PC/W
         2f.    Using appropriate references, identify the procedures to initiate a TO improvement
                report with a minimum of 70% accuracy. Task(s): 5.5 MEAS: PC/W
         3a.    Given appropriate references, identify the procedures for performing preventative
                maintenance inspections with a minimum of 70% accuracy. Task(s): 13.3.5 MEAS:
                PC/W
         3b.    Given appropriate technical data, identify basic facts and terms of the Maintenance
                Data Documentation System with a minimum of 70% accuracy. Task(s): 11.1
                MEAS: PC/W
         3c.    Given maintenance situations, use the PAMS to schedule equipment into and out of
                the laboratory and process maintenance actions with no more than two (2) instructor
                assists. Task(s): 9.2, 11.1.1.1 MEAS: PC/W
         3d.    Given calibration scenarios and appropriate references, complete applicable TMDE
                documentation with no more than two (2) instructor assists. Task(s): 5.7 MEAS:
                PC/W
                                                                                           ATTACHMENT 5
                                                   85
4.1.10.   Block X – Calibration Ready Lab
          1a.   Given appropriate test equipment and calibration procedures, calibrate a passive
                analog multimeter with no more that one (1) instructor assist. Task(s): 14.13.4
                MEAS: PC
                        (1) Mission Ready Technician Laboratory Procedures
                        (2) Calibration of Passive Analog Multimeter
          2a.   Given appropriate test equipment and calibration procedures, calibrate a digital
                multimeter with no more than one (1) instructor assist. Task(s): 14.15.4 MEAS: PC
          3a.   Given appropriate test equipment and calibration procedures, calibrate a frequency
                counter with no more than one (1) instructor assist. Task(s): 15.17.4 MEAS: PC
          4a.   Given appropriate test equipment and applicable calibration procedure, calibrate a
                digitizing oscilloscope with no more than one (1) instructor assist. Task(s): 15.24.4
                MEAS: PC
          5a.   Given appropriate test equipment and calibration procedure, calibrate a pressure
                gauge with no more than one (1) instructor assist. Task(s): 17.20.3 MEAS: PC
          6a.   Given appropriate test equipment and calibration procedure, calibrate a torque
                wrench with no more than one (1) instructor assist. Task(s): 17.28.4 MEAS: PC
                        (1) Theory of SG1146/U
                        (2) Troubleshooting Techniques
                        (3) Troubleshoot 1146/U Function Generator




                                                                                           ATTACHMENT 5
                                                    86
Section D - SUPPORT MATERIAL

     NOTE: There are currently no support material requirements. This area is reserved.




                                                                                          ATTACHMENT 5
                                                87
                                                                                  MAJCOM Unique Requirements


Section E – Training Course Index

1. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the 2PXXX specialty for
broadening and expanding career field knowledge. Refer to Education and Training Course Announcement
(ETCA), for information on all courses listed in this index. For further information on the following courses,
contact the OPR at:

         335 TRS/TRR
         709 Meadows Drive, Ste 253B
         Keesler AFB, MS 39534-2237
         DSN 597-5381

2. Air Force In-Residence Courses.

     COURSE NUMBER
          USER              TITLE                                                  LOCATION             USER
      E3AQR2P031 048C       Electronic Principles (EP)                             Keesler AFB        AF, FMS
            AF
     E3ABR2P031 0B1B        Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory             Keesler AFB        AF, FMS
            AF              (PMEL) Apprentice
      E8AZR2P051 0P1B       Physical Measurement and Calibration Journeyman        Keesler AFB        AF, FMS
            AF
     E3AZR2P051 0A1C        Advanced Calibration, Measurement, and                 Keesler AFB        AF, FMS
            AF              Diagnostics
      E3AZR2P051 0T1B       TACAN/DOD AIMS Diagnostic Principles                   Keesler AFB        AF, FMS
            AF


3.     Air Force Institute of Advanced Distributed Learning (AFIADL) Courses.
       http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/ For further information on the following courses, contact the OPR at:

         335 TRS/UODA
         709 Meadows Drive, Ste 255
         Keesler AFB, MS 39534-2237
         Email: cdc2p0x1@keesler.af.mil

     COURSE NUMBER
          USER              TITLE                                                  LOCATION             USER
         2P051A             Precision Measurement and Calibration                  AFIADL             AF
                            Journeyman
           2P051B           Precision Measurement and Calibration                  AFIADL             AF
                            Journeyman
           2P071            Precision Measurement and Calibration Craftsman        AFIADL             AF




                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT 7
                                                      88
                                                                           MAJCOM Unique Requirements


4. Exportable Courses.



 COURSE NUMBER           TITLE                                              LOCATION

 J6AZWXXXXX 0G1A         Air Force T.O. System (Gen.)                       ADL
 J6AZWXXXXX 0A1A         Air Force T.O. System (Adv.)                       ADL
  J6AZW2AX5X 0F1A        IMDS for Flight Line                               ADL
  J6AZW2AX5X 0S1A        IMDS for Supervisors                               ADL

Type 6 courses are hosted by the Advanced Distributed Learning System (ADLS) site at
https://aetc.csd.disa.mil


5. Training Detachment (TD) Courses: There are currently no applicable TD courses.




                                                                                           ATTACHMENT 7
                                                 89
                                                                       MAJCOM Unique Requirements



Section F- MAJCOM Unique Requirements.

      NOTE: There are currently no MAJCOM unique requirements. This area is reserved.




                                                                                        ATTACHMENT 7
                                               90
