DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                             CFETP 4C0X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                                Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                               1 January 2007



                            AFSC 4C0X1
                 MENTAL HEALTH SERVICE SPECIALTY
             CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN




ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                   CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                       MENTAL HEALTH SERVICE SPECIALTY

                                             Table of Contents

Part I
Preface------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------1
Abbreviations/Terms Explained-------------------------------------------------------------------2
Section A.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------5
    Purpose
    Use of the CFETP
    Coordination and Approval
Section B.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------6
    Specialty Description
    Skills and Career Progression
    Apprentice (3) Level
    Journeyman (5) Level
    Craftsman (7) Level
    Superintendent (9) Level
    Training Decisions
    Community College of the Air Force (CCAF)
    Career Field Path
Section C.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------15
    Purpose
    Specialty Qualifications
    Apprentice (3) Level Training
    Journeyman (5) Level Training
    Craftsman (7) Level Training
    Superintendent (9) Level Training
Section D. Resource Constraints---------------------------------------------------------------19

Section E. Transitional Training Requirements----------------------------------------------19


Part II Section A.
Proficiency Code Key----------------------------------------------------------------------------23
Specialty Training Standard---------------------------------------------------------------------23
Technical References Source Summary-------------------------------------------------------41
Section B. Course Objective List--------------------------------------------------------------46
Section C. Support Materials-------------------------------------------------------------------46
Section D. Training Course Index--------------------------------------------------------------46
Section E. MAJCOM Unique Requirements-------------------------------------------------47
Section F. Documentation of Training (Medical Specific)---------------------------------47
OPR: 383 TRS/XUFD
Certified by: Ms. Wanda Dansby (383 TRS/TRR)
Supersedes: CFETP4C0X1, 1 Dec 2002; CFETP4C0X1C1, 1 Jan 2003; CFETP4C0X1C2, 1 Mar 2003; CFETP4C0X1C3, 1 Dec 2003.
Pages: 58



                                                       ii
                  MENTAL HEALTH SERVICE SPECIALTY
                             AFSC 4C0X1
              CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN


Part I

Preface

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education
and training document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training
support resources, and minimum requirements for this specialty. The CFETP will
provide personnel a clear career path to success and instill rigor in all aspects of career
field training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts; supervisors plan, manage, and control training
within the specialty using both parts of the plan.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty.
Section A explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field
progression information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field
path. Section C associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge,
education, experience, training, and other). Section D indicates resource constraints.
Some examples are funds, manpower, equipment, facilities. Section E identifies
transition training guide requirements for SSgt through MSgt.

2.2. Part II includes five sections: Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard
(STS) and includes; core tasks; wartime; technical references to support training, Air
Education and Training Command (AETC) conducted training; 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level
formal or Career Development Course (CDC) requirements. Section B contains the
Course Objective List (COL) and training standards supervisors will use to determine if
airmen satisfied training requirements. Section C identifies available support materials.
Air Force Qualification Training Packages (AFQTPs) support both upgrade training
(UGT) and qualification training. Section D identifies a training course index supervisors
can use to determine resources available to support training. Lists include all mandatory
Air Force in-residence, field, Air Force Institute of Advanced Distributed Learning
(AFIADL), and exportable courses. Section E identifies MAJCOM unique training
requirements supervisors can use to determine additional training required for the
associated qualification needs.

2.2.1 At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct
training commensurate with the overall goals of this guide.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty
receive effective and efficient training at the appropriate points in their career.




                                              1
Abbreviations and Terms Explained

Advanced Distributive Learning (ADL). Anytime, anyplace learning within DoD consisting
of instructional modules comprised of sharable content objectives in an Internet/Intranet
environment.

Advanced Training (AT). A formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in one
or more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance
their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career airmen at the advanced level of
the AFS.

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). An individual on the Air Staff charged with the
responsibility for overseeing all training and career field management aspects of an Air Force
specialty or group of specialties.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard/Command Job Qualification Standard
(AFJQS/CJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a particular job type or duty position.
Used by supervisors to document task qualifications. The tasks on the AFJQS/CJQS are
common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Air Force Qualification Training Package (AFQTP). An instructional package designed for
use at the unit to qualify, or aid qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of
equipment. AFQTPs identify the Air Force’s standardized method for performing the task. The
AFQTP may be printed (paper-based), computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.

Battlefield Airman. Airmen specifically identified as Battlefield Airmen perform tasks to
integrate and synchronize air and space operations in the deep or extended battlespace. These
airmen routinely fight with joint maneuver and SOF units.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A comprehensive, multipurpose
document encapsulating the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field. It
outlines a logical growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career
field training identifiable, to eliminate duplication, and to ensure this training is budget
defensible.

Commercial Off The Shelf (COTS). Commercially-procured training products.

Computer-Based Training (CBT). A self-paced stand-alone computer product used to deliver
interactive subject and task knowledge.

Continuation Training. Additional training exceeding requirements with emphasis on present
and future duty assignments.

Core Task. A task Air Force Career Field Managers (AFCFMs) identified as a minimum
qualification requirement within an Air Force specialty or duty position. These tasks exemplify
the essence of the career field.



                                                 2
Course Objective List (COL). A publication derived from initial/advanced skills course
training standard, identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective standards
provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to
assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201V1, Training
Development, Delivery, and Evaluation.

Critical Task. Tasks that have been identified by the work center supervisor as having a
detrimental effect on mission accomplishment if not performed correctly. Critical tasks may or
may not be the same as core tasks but are mandatory if identified as ‘critical’ to the individual’s
position by the supervisor or work center.

Distance Learning (DL). Includes Video Tele-seminar (VTS), Video Tele-training (VTT), and
Computer-Based Training (CBT). Formal courses that a training wing or a contractor develops
for export to a field location (in place of resident training) for trainees to complete without the
on-site support of the formal school instructor. For instance, courses are offered by Air Force
Institute of Technology, Air University, and Training Detachment.

Duty Position Task. The tasks assigned to an individual for the position currently held. These
include as a minimum all core tasks, critical tasks, and any other tasks assigned by the
supervisor.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer-assisted, paper text, interactive video,
or other necessary means to supplement training.

Field Technical Training (Type 4 and Type 7). Special or regular on-site training conducted
by a Field Training Detachment (FTD) (Type 4) or by a Mobile Training Team (MTT) (Type 7).

Initial Skills Training. AFS-specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air
Force or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. Normally, this training
is conducted by AETC at one of the technical training wings.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly, but flexible, process for
planning, developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures personnel
are taught in a cost-efficient way the knowledge, skills, and attitudes essential for successful job
performance.

Occupational Survey Report (OSR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational
survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify
personnel in both upgrade (skill-level award) and job qualification (duty position certification)
training.

Optimal Training. The ideal combination of training settings resulting in the highest levels of
proficiency on specified performance requirements within the minimum time possible.


                                                  3
Proficiency Training. Additional training, either in-residence, exportable advanced training
courses, or on-the-job training provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge
beyond the minimum required for upgrade.

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an
individual in a specific duty position. This portion of the dual channel on-the-job training
program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the
performance skills required to do the job.

Readiness Training Package (RTP). Establishes standard levels of knowledge and proficiency
for common Disaster Preparedness and Readiness subject areas by providing instructors with
training references, materials, and lesson objectives used in teaching and evaluating the course
subject matter.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, or
equipment that precludes desired training from being delivered.

Skills Training. A formal course resulting in the award of a skill level.

Specialty Training. A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (on-the-
job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in the award of a skill level.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). Describes skills and knowledge that airmen in a particular
AFS need on the job. It further serves as a contract between the Air Education and Training
Command (AETC) and the user to show the overall training requirements for an AFS taught in
the resident and nonresident courses.

Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, established and defined by
authority, custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring
quantities or qualities, establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results;. a fixed
quantity or quality.

Supplemental Training. Training for a portion of an AFS without a change in AFSC. Formal
training on new equipment, methods, and technology that are not suited for on-the-job training.

Total Force. All collective Air Force components (active duty, Reserve, Guard, and civilian
elements) of the United States Air Force.

Training Capacity. The capability of a training setting to provide training on specified
requirements, based on the availability of resources.

Training Planning Team (TPT). Comprised of the same personnel as a U&TW; however,
TPTs are more intimately involved in training development and the range of issues is greater
than is normal in the U&TW forum.

Training Requirements Analysis. A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFS to be
included in the training decision process.



                                                4
Upgrade Training (UGT). Identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements,
and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 5-, 7-, and 9-skill levels.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum of the AFCFM, MAJCOM Functional
Managers (MFMs), Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training personnel that
determines career ladder training requirements.

Section A - General Information

4. Purpose. This CFETP provides the information necessary for Air Force Career Field
Managers (AFCFM), MAJCOM Functional Managers (MFM), commanders, training managers,
supervisors and trainers, to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective career field training
program. This plan outlines the training that individuals in the AFS should receive in order to
develop and progress throughout their career. This plan identifies initial skills, upgrade,
qualification, advanced, and proficiency training. Initial skills training is the AFS specific
training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon retraining into this specialty
for award of the 3-skill level. Normally, this training is conducted by AETC at one of the
technical training centers. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification
requirements, and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, 9-
skill level. Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to
qualify an Airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after
the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills and knowledge
required to do the job. Advanced Training is formal specialty training used for selected airmen.
Proficiency training is additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training
courses, or on-the-job training provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge
beyond the minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP has several purposes--some are:

4.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field training
program. Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an
individual’s career.

4.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education and training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.

4.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and training
delivery methods.

4.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired career
field training process.

5. Uses. The plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure comprehensive
and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

5.1. AETC training personnel will develop or revise formal resident, nonresident, field and
exportable training based upon requirements established by the users and documented in Part II
of the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for
obtaining resources needed to provide the identified training.



                                                  5
5.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial,
upgrade, and proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, contract training, or exportable
courses can satisfy identified requirements. MAJCOM-developed training to support this AFS
must be identified for inclusion into the plan.

5.3. Unit Training Managers and supervisors must ensure each individual completes the
mandatory training requirements (including MAJCOM supplemental requirements) for the
upgrade training specified in this plan.

5.4. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan.
The lists of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

6. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority for the CFETP. Also, the
AFCFM will initiate an annual review of this document to ensure currency and accuracy.
MAJCOM representatives and AETC personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field
training requirements. Using the list of courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.

Section B - Career Field Progression and Information

7. Specialty Description.

7.1. Specialty Summary. Supports mental health services in psychiatry, psychology, social
work, family advocacy, substance abuse prevention and rehabilitation, and mental health
programs. Manages mental health service resources and activities. Assists mental health
professional staff with developing and implementing treatment plans. Performs specified mental
health treatment. Reports and documents patient care. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup:
130200.

7.2. Duties and Responsibilities.

7.2.1. Conducts or assists in treatment and rehabilitation of mental health patients. Performs
initial basic assessment procedures including standardized psychological testing, clinical
interviewing, mental status examinations, substance abuse evaluations, and psychological and
nursing assessment. Assists in identifying mental health and nursing diagnoses, treatments,
patient education, and disposition planning. Participates in patient care conferences and
substance abuse intervention. Observes, monitors, records, and reports patient’s progress.
Conducts or assists in conducting group and individual counseling, therapeutic community, and
other related milieu activities. Institutes precautionary measures to prevent patient injury,
suicide. Provides mental health and substance abuse prevention education. Performs general
and special clinical procedures. Assists patients with nutritional, hygiene, and comfort measures.
Obtains and records vital signs. Performs chaperone and escort duties. Maintains therapeutic
relationships. Performs aeromedical evacuation procedures. Supports the Air Force drug testing
program.

7.2.2. Plans and supervises mental health service activities. Coordinates with other agencies
regarding specified care, treatment, prevention, rehabilitation, and administrative functions.
Contacts military and community agencies to obtain collateral information. Explains and
interprets mental health services to patients or others. Assists in, or arranges patient referral to
public, private, and military community agencies.
                                                  6
 7.2.3. Manages enlisted resources. Establishes priorities based on knowledge of
interchangeable skills among assigned enlisted personnel. Manages preparation and
maintenance of records and reports pertaining to specialty services. Reviews procedures and
requirements within specialty services to preclude duplication and to free personnel for more
direct service work with patients. Establishes, maintains, and evaluates specific mental health,
family advocacy, and substance abuse training programs. Conducts in-service training.
Schedules recurring training and conducts task evaluations.

7.2.4. Performs combat and disaster casualty care procedures. Supervises and assists with care
of individuals experiencing acute and post-traumatic stress reactions.
.
7.2.5. Supervises and performs administrative duties. Prepares, maintains, and disposes of
mental health, family advocacy, and substance abuse treatment records. Receives patients and
schedules appointment. Evaluates mental health service activities. Collects and updates
administrative and statistical data. Conducts unit self-assessments. Compiles and prepares
medical and administrative reports. Briefs patients on safety and evacuation procedures.

8. Skill and Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the
apprentice to the superintendent level play an important role in the Air Force's ability to
accomplish its mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training must do his or
her part to plan, manage, and conduct an effective training program. The guidance
provided in this part of the CFETP will ensure each individual receives viable training at
appropriate points in their career.

8.1. Apprentice (3-Level).

8.1.1. Initial skills training in this specialty consist of the task and knowledge
training provided in the 3-skill level resident course (J3ABR4C031 00AB) located at Sheppard
AFB TX. The decision to train specific tasks and knowledge items in the initial skills course is
based on a review of occupational survey report (OSR) data, training requirements analysis
(TRA) data, and 4C0X1 subject-matter expert (SME) input. Task and knowledge training
requirements are identified in the specialty training standard, at Part II, Section 4B. Individuals
must complete the initial skills course to be awarded AFSC 4C031.

8.1.2. Utilize the Career Development Course (CDC), Air Force Qualification Training
Packages (AFQTPs) and other exportable courses for subject and task fundamentals in the career
field.

8.1.3. Once trained and task certified, a trainee may perform the task unsupervised.

8.1.4. After all upgrade training requirements are completed, supervisors and Unit Training
Managers (UTMs) coordinate upgrade procedures.

8.1.5. NOTE: All trainees are automatically enrolled in the Community College of the Air
Force (CCAF) when awarded their primary AFSC.




                                                  7
8.2. Journeyman (5-Level).

8.2.1. Upgrade to the 5-skill level in this specialty consists of: (1) Completing
all STS core tasks for the assigned duty position, (2) Completing all core tasks specified by an
asterisk (*) in column 2 of the STS (3) Completing 15 months of upgrade training (9 months for
retrainees) (4) Completing the Career Development Course (4C051) and (5) Recommendation of
supervisors and meet all other requirements as outlined in AFI 36-2101, Military Personnel
Classification Policy. Please refer to AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program for further
information. Once upgraded to the 5-skill level, a journeyman will maintain proficiency by
completing all continuation training required or specified by command or local policies.
Journeyman will continue to obtain the necessary education for national certification for
substance abuse counseling. 5-levels may be assigned job positions such as team leader, shift
supervisor, and task trainer. Journeymen are eligible for application and selection as an
instructor for the Mental Health Service Apprentice course. Additional qualification training may
become necessary when personnel transfer to another duty position, when a new piece of
equipment is introduced, when new techniques or procedures are introduced, or when a need for
increased training occurs.

8.2.2. Completion of QTP 2, Safety and Health Special Procedures, is required. Enter into
continuation training to broaden experience base, continue necessary education for national
certification for substance abuse counseling, and to advance to the 7-level.

8.2.3. Attend the Airman Leadership School (ALS) after serving 48 months in the Air Force or
selection to rank of SSgt (active duty only). Either the in-residence or correspondence course is
required for Air National Guard/Air Force Reserve Command (ANG/AFRC) personnel.

8.2.4. Use CDCs and other reference material to prepare for Weighted Airman Promotion
System (WAPS) testing.

8.2.5. Continue pursuing a Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) degree in Mental
Health Services.

8.2.6. After all upgrade training requirements are completed, supervisors and UTMs coordinate
upgrade procedures.

8.3. Craftsman (7-Level).

8.3.1. Upgrade to the 7-skill level in this specialty consists of: Completing
the 7-level CDC, completing all QTP’s and selection to SSgt. A Mental Health Service
Craftsman can be expected to fill various supervisory and management positions within mental
health services. Craftsman should take courses or obtain added knowledge on management of
resources and personnel.

8.3.2. Completion of 100% core task training is prerequisite to award of the 7-level.
Completion of QTP 1, The Twelve Core Functions of Substance Abuse Counseling, is
mandatory.

8.3.3. Must complete, as a minimum, twelve months OJT before award of the 7-level (6 months
for retrainees).
                                                8
8.3.4. Craftsman will continue to obtain the necessary education and experience required to
complete the Case Presentation, Oral and Written Exam to meet the Air Force Substance Abuse
Counselor Certification Board. Seven-levels should take continuation training courses or obtain
additional knowledge on management of resources and personnel.

8.3.5. Continue academic education through CCAF and higher degree programs is encouraged.

8.3.6. Attend the Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA) after promotion to TSgt (active
duty only). Either the in-residence or correspondence course is required for Air National
Guard/Air Force Reserve Command (ANG/AFRC) personnel.

8.3.7. After all upgrade training requirements are completed, supervisors and UTMs coordinate
upgrade procedures.

8.4. Superintendent. (9-Level)

8.4.1. A 9-level can be expected to fill positions such as Superintendent of the Mental Health
Flight, superintendent of any one of the medical squadrons, or superintendent of a group. and
various staff positions.

8.4.2. Must be a SMSgt for award of the 9-skill level.

8.4.3. Additional training in the areas of budget, manpower, resources, and personnel
management should be pursued through continuing education. Additional education and course
work outside the AFSC are also recommended.

8.4.4. After completion of CCAF, recommend the pursuit of additional higher education and
completion of courses outside of their career AFS.

9. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Mental Health Service career
field. The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet the training
requirements. The strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce duplication of training
and eliminate a disjointed approach to training. The following decisions were made at the career
field Utilization & Training Workshop held at Sheppard AFB TX in June 2005.

9.1. Initial Skills Training. The initial skill course was reviewed for content. Additions,
deletions, and modifications were made to the course. All tasks and knowledge items shown
with a proficiency code are trained during war-time. Additional contingency training was also
identified.

9.2. Five Level Upgrade Training Requirements. Existing CDCs were reviewed and updated to
ensure only current material remained and new technology information was added. Completion
of the CDC is and QTP 2 is mandatory for upgrade to the 5-skill level.

9.3. Seven Level Upgrade Training Requirements. 7-level training requirements were reviewed
and updated. Completion of the CDC is and QTP 1 is mandatory for upgrade to the 7-skill level.


                                                9
9.4. Proficiency Training. Any additional knowledge and skill requirements that were not
taught through initial skills or upgrade training are assigned as continuation training. Purpose of
continuation training is to provide training exceeding minimum upgrade training requirements
with emphasis on present and future duty positions. MAJCOMs must develop a continuation-
training program that ensures personnel in the Mental Health Service career field receive the
necessary training at the appropriate point in their careers. The training program will identify
both mandatory and optional training requirements.

9.5. Qualification Training Packages (QTPs). The 383 TRS will maintain QTPs to support
upgrade training. QTPs will be indexed in the CFETP. The QTPs were reviewed for currency
and accuracy. Changes were recommended. Volume 1, The Twelve Core Functions, must be
accomplished prior to award of 7-level. Supervisors should initiate training with this QTP early
in their subordinate’s career due to the length and nature of this particular training. Volume 2,
Family Member Relocation Clearance, was deleted. Volume 3 was renumbered as Volume 2.
Renumbered QTP Volume 2, Safety and Health Procedures, will be updated and expanded and
must be accomplished prior to award of the 5-level.

10. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Academic Programs. Enrollment in
CCAF occurs upon completion of Basic Military training. CCAF provides the opportunity to
obtain an Associate in Applied Sciences Degree. In addition to its associates degree program,
CCAF offers the following:

10.1. Occupational Instructor Certification. Upon completion of instructor qualification training
(consisting of the instructor methods course and supervised practice teaching), CCAF instructors
who possess an associates degree or higher may be nominated by their school commander and
commandant for certification as an occupational instructor.

10.2. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill
certification is awarded for the primary occupational specialty. The College uses a competency-
based assessment process for trade skill certification at one of four proficiency levels:
Apprentice, Journeyman, Craftsman (Supervisor), or Master Craftsman (Manager). All are
transcribed on the CCAF transcript.

11. Degree Requirements. The Mental Health Services (7GAP) degree requirements applies to
this AFSC. All airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program. Prior to completing
an associate degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the following requirements must be met:

Course                                                                                          Semester Hours

Technical Education......................................................................................….. 24

Leadership, Management, and Military Studies........................…......................                        6

Physical Education..............................................................................................   4

General Education...........................................................................……............. 15

Program Elective..............................................................................…................ 15
   Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and

                                                                    10
     Military Studies; or General Education

Total.......................................................................................…….....          64

11.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of Technical
Core subjects and courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied from
Technical Core or Technical Elective subjects and courses.


Technical Core Requirements                                                    Maximum Semester Hours

Abnormal Psychology                                                                                           3
CCAF Internship                                                                                              18
Drug and Alcohol Abuse                                                                                        6
Guidance and Counseling                                                                                       9
Human Growth/Lifespan Development                                                                             6
Human Relations                                                                                               3
Interpersonal Communication                                                                                   3
Mental Health Care                                                                                           24
Psychology of Adjustment                                                                                      3

Technical Electives                                                              Maximum Semester Hours

Computer Science                                                                                              6
Emergency Medicine                                                                                            3
General Biology                                                                                               4
General Chemistry                                                                                             4
General Psychology                                                                                            3
Human Anatomy and Physiology                                                                                  4
Human Biology                                                                                                 4
Medical Readiness                                                                                             3
Nursing (Mental Health Related)                                                                               6

11.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Professional military
education, civilian management courses accepted in transfer and/or by testing credit.

11.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of
Basic Military Training.

11.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
application of courses to the general education requirements and be in agreement with the
definitions of applicable general education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF General
Catalog.

General Education Subjects/Courses                                                                Semester Hours

Oral Communication........................................................................................... 3
   Speech
Written Communication..................................................................................... 3
                                                                    11
   English Composition
Mathematics........................................................................................................ 3
   An intermediate algebra or a college-level mathematics course that
   satisfies the delivering institution's mathematics requirement for
   graduation. If an acceptable mathematics course is applied as a
   technical or program elective, a natural science course may be
   substituted for mathematics.
Social Science...................................................................................................... 3
   Anthropology, archaeology, economics, geography, government, history, political
   science, psychology, and sociology
Humanities........................................................................................................... 3
   Fine arts (criticism, appreciation, historical significance), foreign language,
   literature, philosophy, and religion.

11.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable technical education,
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (LMMS), or general education requirements;
Natural science courses meeting the general education requirement application criteria; Foreign
language credit earned at Defense Language Institute or through Defense Language Proficiency
Test; Maximum of six semester hours of CCAF degree-applicable technical course credit
otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied. See the CCAF General Catalog for
details regarding the Associates of Applied Sciences degree for this specialty.

11.6. Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is encouraged for all. Individuals
desiring to become an AETC Instructor must posses, as a minimum, an associate degree or
should be actively pursuing an associate degree. Special Duty Assignment requires an AETC
instructor candidate to have a CCAF degree or be within one year of completion (45 semester
hours). A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern
Association of Colleges and Schools.

11.7. Contact your local education office for current lists of examinations and AFIADL courses
for CCAF degree requirements.




                                                                 12
12. Career Field Path. The following chart depicts this specialty’s career path.




         MENTAL
         MENTAL HEALTH
                  HEALTH
              4C0X1
              4C0X1
       ENLISTED
       ENLISTED CAREER
                CAREER PATH
                       PATH
                                                    CFM
                                                    CFM              CMSGT
                                                                     CMSGT
                                              MANAGER
                                              MANAGER



                                                               OO             SS        SMSGT
                                                                                        SMSGT
                                                                    FF         NN
                                               CC         CC
                               SUPERINTENDENT                            FF         CC
                                SUPERINTENDENT
                                                    EE         CC
                                                                                        OO
                                                                    AA         DD
                                                         RR                                  AA
                                               II
                                                                                    UU
                                                                                                       MSGT
                                                                                                       MSGT
                                                          TT             FF
                                                    NN
                                                                                        TT
                                                               II
                              NCOIC                      SS
                               NCOIC                                           DD        YY
                              LARGE                                 FF
                              LARGE                       TT
                            MED
                            MEDGROUP
                                 GROUP                                   II         EE
                                                                                                  EE      NN
                                                               RR
                                                                              CC        GG
                                                                                                    DD        CC
                                                                    UU
                                                                                   AA        RR
                                                                                                         UU
                                                                                                                             TSGT
                                                                                                                             TSGT
                                                                         CC                                    OO
                       CRAFTSMAN
                       CRAFTSMAN
                         NCOIC                                                      TT         EE
                          NCOIC                                               TT                          CC        AA
                       MED
                       MEDGROUP:
                           GROUP:                                                        II         EE
                       SQUADRON
                        SQUADRON                                                                               AA
                                                                                   OO
                                                                                              OO
                                                                                                                   TT
                                                                                        RR
                                                                                                  NN                          __
                                                                                                                        II    __ SSGT
                                                                                                                                 SSGT
          BASE
          BASELEVEL
               LEVEL MENTAL
                     MENTALHEALTH
                            HEALTHOPERATIONS
                                  OPERATIONS                                   OJT                CDC
                                                                               OJT                CDC                    OO
                                                                                                                                  AA
           MENTAL
           MENTALHEALTH
                  HEALTH APPRENTICE/JOURNEYMAN
                         APPRENTICE/JOURNEYMAN                             UPGRADE
                                                                            UPGRADE                                          NN
                                                                         QUALIFICATION
                                                                         QUALIFICATION
                                                                           TRAINING                                                LL
                                                                            TRAINING
                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                             __ AMN
                                                                                                                                                AMN


                  RETRAINEES
                  RETRAINEES       FORMAL
                                    FORMALTECHNICAL
                                          TECHNICALSCHOOL
                                                    SCHOOL




                                                                          13
       12.1. Enlisted Career Path.

Table 12.1. Enlisted Career Path                                   GRADE REQUIREMENTS
Education and Training Requirements                                Rank          Avg            Earliest     High Year Of Tenure
                                                                                 Sew-On         Sew-On       (HYT)
Basic Military Training School
Apprentice Technical School                                        Amn           6 mos
(3-Skill Level)                                                    A1C           16 mos
Upgrade To Journeyman                                              SrA           3 yrs          28 mos       10 yrs
(5-Skill Level)
- Minimum 15 months in upgrade training (9 for retrainees)
- Complete appropriate CDC (4C051)
Airman Leadership School (ALS)                                     Trainer
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service or be a SSgt        - Recommended by their supervisor
select                                                             - Qualified to perform the task being trained
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt sew-on (Active    - Completed the Air Force Training Course
  Duty Only)
Upgrade To Craftsman - (7-Skill Level)                             SSgt            7.5 yrs        3 yrs        20 yrs
- Minimum rank of SSgt
- 12 months OJT (6 months for retrainees)
- Complete appropriate CDC (4C071)
                                                                   Certifier
                                                                   - Be a person other than the trainer
                                                                   - Must be at least a SSgt (E-5) with a 5-skill level or civilian
                                                                     equivalent
                                                                   - Capable of evaluating the task being certified
                                                                   - Completed the Air Force Training Course
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)                             TSgt            12.5 yrs       5 yrs        22 yrs
- Must be a TSgt or TSgt Selectee
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt sew-on (Active    MSgt            16 yrs         8 yrs        26 yrs
  Duty Only)
USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)                                    SMSgt           19.2 yrs       11 yrs       28 yrs
- Must be a SMSgt or SMSgt Selectee
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for CMSgt sew-on
(Active Duty Only)
- A percentage of top non selects (for promotion to E-8) MSgts
  attend
Upgrade To Superintendent                                          CMSgt           21.5 yrs       14 yrs       30 yrs
(9-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SMSgt
- Must be a resident graduate of SNCOA (Active Duty Only)




                                                                  14
Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements

1. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of tasks and
knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each
skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award
and retention of each skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements are
identified in Part II, STS, Sections A and B of this CFETP.

2. Specialty Qualifications.

2.1. Knowledge. Knowledge of these subjects are mandatory: Psychiatry, psychology, social
work, family advocacy, and nursing principles, procedures and theories; confidentiality and legal
aspects of patient care; understanding of medical, nursing, and mental health terminology;
psychopathology; adjustment mechanisms; substance abuse pathology; 12 core functions for
substance abuse counselor certification; combat and disaster casualty care management;
communication processes; traumatic stress response debriefings, specialized mental health and
nursing treatment techniques; anatomy and physiology; deviant and unacceptable behavior;
principles of interpersonal relationships; counseling and interviewing techniques; diagnostic
nomenclature; psychopharmacology; administration and scoring of psychological tests; medical
and mental health ethics; medical and clinical records administration; principles of milieu
therapy; personnel, unit and clinic management; and budgeting and acquisition of supplies and
equipment.

2.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school is mandatory. Completion
of college courses in psychology, social or behavioral sciences such as psychology, counseling,
substance abuse treatment, sociology, and marriage and family is desirable.

2.3. Training. For award of AFSC 4C031, completion of the mental health service apprentice
course is mandatory.

2.4. Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated.

2.4.1. 4C051. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 4C031. Also, experience administering,
scoring, and reporting psychological test results; interviewing patients to obtain biopsychosocial
history, personal information; and assisting professional staff to carry out prescribed treatment
plan.

2.4.2. 4C071. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 4C051. Also, experience conducting
briefings, performing or supervising psychological test administration; and interviewing, and
assisting in patient treatment, or substance abuse prevention and counseling.

2.4.3. 4C091. Qualified in and possess AFSC 4C071. Also, experience managing mental health
service activities.

2.4.4. Other. The following are mandatory as indicated:

2.4.4.1. For entry into this specialty, see the Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory
                                                 15
(AFECD) for Other entry requirements.

2.4.4.2. For entry, award and retention of this AFSC, absence of any speech impediment, and
ability to read aloud and speak distinctly.

2.4.2.3. For entry, award and retention of these AFSC’s, no record of emotional instability,
personality disorder, or unresolved mental health problems.

2.5. Training Sources and Resources. Completion of the Mental Health Service Apprentice, (3-
level) Course at Sheppard AFB, TX satisfies the knowledge and training requirements specified
in the specialty qualification section (above) for award of the 3-skill level.

2.6. Implementation. Entry into upgrade training is initiated when an individual graduates from
the 4C0X1 Apprentice Course at Sheppard AFB, TX. There will be no by-pass specialist or local
OJT to the 3-skill level in this AFS. Individuals retraining into the 4C0X1 AFS will be screened
in accordance with specialty qualifications standards in the AFECD. Resident training is
mandatory for 3-level upgrade. After graduation, job qualification training starts when an
individual is assigned to his or her first duty station. Thereafter, it is initiated anytime an
individual is assigned duties he or she is not qualified to perform.

2.7. Journeyman Level Training:

2.7.1. Specialty Qualification. Qualified and possess AFSC 4C031. Must be capable of
administering, scoring, and reporting psychological test results; interviewing patients to obtain
personal history information; and assisting professional staff with carrying out prescribed
treatments.

2.7.2. Knowledge. In addition to the knowledge required for a 3-level, knowledge in the
following subjects is mandatory: psychiatry, psychology, social work, family advocacy
procedures, Special Needs Identification and Assignment Coordination Program (SNIAC),
Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment Program (ADAPT) medical, nursing and
mental health terminology, supply management; budget; safety and health hazards, professional
and ethical conduct, personality development; psychopathology, adjustment mechanism, combat
and disaster casualty care, communication process, specialized treatment techniques, anatomy
and physiology, normal and abnormal behavior, principles of interpersonal relationships,
counseling and interviewing techniques, diagnostic nomenclature, psychopharmacology, triage
and crisis intervention, medical records administration, documentation and files, and record
maintenance.

2.7.3. Education. To assume the grade of SSgt, individuals must be graduates of the Airman
Leadership School. Completion of advanced mental health courses or college courses in
psychology, psychiatry, social work, substance abuse and domestic/family violence is desirable.
Obtaining a CCAF degree is encouraged. Individuals applying for resident course instructor duty
must possess an associate degree or higher or be within one year of completion to be considered
for this duty position.

2.7.4. Training. Completion of the following requirements are mandatory for award of the 5-skill
level AFSC: (a) CDC 4C051, (b) be certified on all STS core tasks for the assigned duty position
and on all core tasks specified by an asterisk (*) in column 2 of STS, (c) QTP 2.
                                                16
2.7.5. Experience. Prior qualification as a Mental Health Services Apprentice is mandatory.
Experience is also mandatory in administering, scoring and reporting psychological test results;
obtaining and recording vital signs; and interviewing patients to obtain personal history
information.

2.7.6. Other. No record of unethical conduct/behavior, emotional instability, personality disorder,
or unresolved mental health problem is mandatory for entry, award, and retention of this AFSC.

2.7.7. Training Sources and Resources. Completion of CDCs 4C051, satisfies the knowledge
requirements specified in the specialty qualification section (above) for award of the 5-skill level.
The STS identifies all the core tasks required for qualification. A list of training courses is in
Part II Section C of this CFEPT. A qualified trainer must provide upgrade and qualification
training.

2.7.8. Implementation. The 5-skill level is awarded when: (1) an individual possesses the 3-skill
level, (2) completed 15 months in 5-level UGT (9 months for retrainees), (3) complete required
4C051 CDCs and all STS core tasks specified in column 2 of all STS attachments for the
assigned duty position and, (4) be recommended by their supervisor in accordance with AFI 36-
2101, Military Personnel Classification policy. Qualification training is initiated anytime an
individual is assigned duties they are not qualified to perform.

2.8. Craftsman Level Training:

2.8.1. Specialty Qualifications. All 4C051 qualifications apply to the 4C071 requirements.

2.8.2. Knowledge. The 7-level craftsman should possess an increased knowledge of the
following subjects: psychiatry, psychology, social work, family advocacy, substance abuse
treatment; counseling and interviewing; diagnostic nomenclature; psychopharmacology;
administering and scoring psychological tests; medical ethics; medical records administration;
nursing theories; milieu therapy; personnel utilization; unit and clinic management; budgeting
and acquiring medical supplies and equipment.

2.8.3. Education. To assume the grade of MSgt, individuals must be graduates of the NCO
Academy.

2.8.4. Training. Completion of the following training requirements is mandatory for the award of
the 7-skill level AFSC: (1) 7-level CDC (2) all STS core tasks for the assigned duty position, (3)
all core tasks specified by an asterisk (*) in Column 2 of the STS, and (4) Volume 1 and Volume
2 QTPs. (5) Minimum of 12 months of OJT (6 months for retrainees). Continuation training is
available locally and should be used based on the individual’s particular training needs.

2.8.5. Experience. Prior qualification as a Mental Health Service Journeyman is mandatory.
Minimum of 12 months of OJT and assumption of the rank of SSgt or higher is required for
awarding of the 7- skill level. Experience in performing mental health supervisory functions,
patient care, substance abuse prevention and treatment; interviewing and crisis intervention
skills; recording vital signs, and applying mechanical and manual restraints are mandatory.

2.8.6. Other. Obtain the rank of SSgt. No record of unethical conduct/behavior, emotional
                                                 17
instability, personality disorder, or unresolved mental health problem is mandatory for entry,
award, and retention of this AFSC.

2.8.7. Training Sources and Resources. Completion of the Mental Health Service Craftsman
CDC satisfies the knowledge requirements specified in the specialty qualification section (above)
for award of the 7-skill level. The STS identifies all the core tasks required for qualification.
Upgrade and qualification training is provided locally by a qualified trainer using the same
criteria as indicated for the mental health service journeyman.

2.8.8. Implementation. Entry into upgrade training is initiated when an individual possesses the
5-skill level and has been selected for promotion to the grade of SSgt. Retrainees who satisfy
this rank requirement may enter into upgrade training immediately upon obtaining the 5-skill
level. All time requirements for retrainees may be waived by the 4C0X1 Career Field Manager
up to their previously held AFSC’s skill level. Qualification training is initiated anytime an
individual is assigned duties they are not qualified to perform. Volume 1 and Volume 2 QTPs
and the Mental Health Service Craftsman CDC must be completed prior to the awarding of the 7-
skill level.

2.9. Superintendent Level Training.

2.9.1. Specialty Qualifications. Possession of AFSC 4C071 is mandatory.

2.9.2. Knowledge. Medical service organization and function, overall administrative, logistical
managerial and technical Mental Health Service activities. Knowledge is also mandatory of
personnel management and utilization, human relations techniques, medical regulations and
directives, medical ethics and process improvement.

2.9.3. Education. To assume the rank of CMSgt individuals must be graduates of the SNCOA.
Completion of CCAF and undergraduate school in a related field is highly encouraged.

2.9.4. Training. Completion of the duty position training requirements is mandatory for award of
the 4C091 AFSC.

2.9.5. Experience. Experience in directing mental health service functions such as education and
training programs is mandatory.

2.9.6. Other. Obtain rank of SMSgt. No record of unethical conduct/behavior, emotional
instability, personality disorder, or other unresolved mental health problem is mandatory for
entry, award, and retention of this AFSC.

2.9.7. Training Sources and Resources. The STS identifies all the core tasks required for
qualification in the individual’s duty position. Upgrade and qualification training are provided by
qualified trainers.

2.9.8. Implementation. Entry into upgrade training is initiated when an individual possesses the
7-skill level and is a SMSgt selectee or higher. Qualification training is initiated anytime an
individual is assigned duties they are not qualified to perform. QTPs will be used concurrently
to obtain necessary duty position qualifications.

                                                18
Section D - Resource Constraints

1. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints that preclude optimal/desired
training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower.
Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what
effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section are actions
required, office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource constraints will
be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

2. Three Level (Apprentice) Training:

2.1.1. Constraints. None.

3. Five Level (Journeyman) Training:

3.1.1. Constraints. None.

4. Seven-Level (Craftsman) Training:

4.1.1. Constraints. None.

Section E- Transitional Training Guide

There is currently no transition training requirements. This area is reserved.

BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE


OFFICIAL                                             JAMES G. ROUDEBUSH
                                                     Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
                                                     Surgeon General




                                                19
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK




                20
                                             Part II

Preface

This portion of the CFETP provides a comprehensive listing of training courses and standards
available to support career field training requirements. There are five sections to Part II:
Specialty Training Standard (STS), Course Objective List, OJT Support Material, Training
Course Index, and MAJCOM unique requirements.

Section A – Specialty Training Standard

1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC for
J3ABR4C031 00AB in Oct 06. Additionally, the 5-level CDC will be available in Apr 07.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201V5, this STS:

2.1 Lists in column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common tasks,
knowledge and technical references (TR) necessary for Airman to perform duties in the 3-, 5-,
and 7-skill level. Column 2 (Core/Wartime Tasks) identifies by asterisk (*) specialty wide core
training requirements. All tasks shown with a proficiency code in the 3-Skill-Level Course
Column are trained in the resident wartime course.

2.2. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and
knowledge training requirements. Use automated training management systems to document
technician qualifications, if available. Task certification must show a certification/completion
date. (As a minimum, use the following column designators: Tng Comp, Certifier Initials).

2.3. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the
proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the
task/knowledge and career knowledge provided by the correspondence course. See
CADRE/AFSC/CDC listing maintained by the Unit Training Manager (UTM) for current CDC
listings.

2.4. Qualitative Requirements. Page 23 contains the proficiency code key used to indicate the
level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career development courses.

2.5. The STS becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on the job training (OJT) when
placed in AF Form 623, Individual Training Record, and is used according to AFI 36-2201.
When used as a JQS, the following apply:

2.5.1. Documentation of initial training. Document completion of training in the following
manner. Identify duty position requirements by circling the subparagraph number next to the
task statement. When documenting initial training, complete the following columns in Part 2 of
CFETP: Training Start, Training Completed, Trainee Initials, and Trainer Initials. Certifiers
will provide third-party certification and evaluation on tasks identified by the AFCFM (if
applicable). Use Part II of the current CFETP or AFJQS (if directed by the AFCFM), or
electronic equivalent to identify and certify position qualification and skill level UGT
requirements. NOTE: The AFCFM may supplement these minimum documentation procedures

                                                21
as needed or as deemed necessary for their career field.

2.5.1.1. CFETP Transcribing Procedures. For tasks previously certified and required in the
current duty position, circle the subparagraph number next to the task statement and enter the
current date in the completion column. Trainee initials in the trainee column and the current task
certifier or supervisor/trainer initials in the trainer column. For tasks previously certified but not
required in the current duty position (do not circle), transcribe only the previous certification date
(no initials). If the task later becomes required in the duty position, recertify using current dates
and initials.

2.5.1.2. De-certification and Re-certification. When a supervisor determines an Airman is
unqualified on a task previously certified for their duty position, the supervisor erases the
previous certification to include all dates and initials, or deletes certification when using
automated system. Appropriate remarks pertaining to the reason for decertification are entered
on the AF Form 623a. Begin recertification (if required) following procedures in paragraph
2.5.1.1.

2.5.2. Specialty Training Standard. Tasks ( Part – 2) are trained and qualified to the go/no go
level. Go means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets local
demands for accuracy, timeliness, and correct use of procedures. No go means the individual
can not perform the task without assistance and meets local demands for accuracy, timeliness,
and correct use of procedures.

2.5.3. Guidance: For additional guidance, refer to AFI 36-2201V3, Air Force Training Program
On The Job Training Administration.

2.6. Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS) guide. Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKT) are
developed at the USAF Occupational Measurement Squadron by senior NCO’s with extensive
practical experience in their career fields. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter
areas judged by test development team members as most appropriate for promotion to higher
grades. Questions are based upon study references listed in the WAPS catalog. WAPS are not
applicable to the Air Force Reserves or the Air National Guard.

3. Recommendations. Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates to
882d TRG/TTSE, 939 Missile Rd, Sheppard AFB, TX. 76311-2245. Reference specific STS
items. A Customer Service Information Line has been installed for the supervisor’s convenience
to identify graduates who may have received over or under training on task/knowledge items
listed in this training standard. For a quick response to problems, call our 24-hour Customer
Service Information Line, DSN 736-2385.

BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE


OFFICIAL                                              JAMES G. ROUDEBUSH
                                                      Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
                                                      Surgeon General



                                                 22
This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                         Initials (Written)             SSAN (last 4)


                                             Printed Name Of Trainer, Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                      N/I


N/I                                                                       N/I


N/I                                                                       N/I


N/I                                                                       N/I


N/I                                                                       N/I


N/I                                                                       N/I


N/I                                                                       N/I

N/I                                                                       N/I



                                                    QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                               Proficiency Code Key
                                    Scale       Definition: The individual
                                    Value
                                       1        Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (Extremely
                                                Limited)
          Task                         2        Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)

      Performance                      3        Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)

         Levels                        4        Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task.
                                                (Highly Proficient)
                                       a        Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)

        *Task                          b        Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)

      Knowledge                        c        Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                                                (Operating Principles)
         Levels                       d         Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)

                                      A         Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)

      **Subject                       B         Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (Principles)

      Knowledge                       C         Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)

       Levels                         D         Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

X This mark is used alone in the course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.

 NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war time.




                                                                           23
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK




                24
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D        E               A               B                   C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials   Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC

1 Common Mental Health Career
Field Experience
1.1 4C0X1 Specialty
  TR: AFECD; AFI 44-121; AFI
41-210; AFI 40-301; ASAM
PPC-2R
1.1.1 Duties and Responsibilities                                                                                           A        -       -       -        -          -
1.1.2 Career Progression                                                                                                    A        -       -       -        -          -
1.1.3 Mission                                                                                                               -        -       -       -        -          -
1.1.3.1 Life Skills Support Center                                                                                          A        -       -       -        -          -
1.1.3.2 ADAPT                                                                                                               A        -       -       -        -          -
1.1.3.3 Family Advocacy Program                                                                                             A        -       -       -        -          -
1.1.3.4 Inpatient/Day Treatment                                                                                             A        -       -       -        -          -
1.1.3.5 Special Duties                                                                                                      A        -       -       -        -          -
1.1.4 Basic Functions of                                                                                                    A        -       -       B        -          B
Community Action Information
Board (CAIB)
1.1.5 Basic Functions of                                                                                                    A        -       -       B        -          B
Integrated Delivery System (IDS)
1.2 USAF Medical Service
  TR: AFPD 44-1; AFI 44-102
1.2.1 Mission
1.2.1.1 Air Expeditionary Force                                                                                             A        -       -       -        -          -
(AEF)
1.2.1.2 Air Reserve Component                                                                                               A        -       -       -        -          -
(ARC)
1.2.2 Organization                                                                                                          A        -       -       -        -          -
1.2.3 Function                                                                                                              A        -       -       -        -          -
1.2.3.1 Population Health                                                                                                   A        -       -       A        -          -
1.2.3.2 Behavioral Health                                                                                                   A        -       -       A        -          -
Optimization
1.3 Mental Health Standards of                           *
Practice
  TR: AFI 44-102; DODD 6495.1
1.3.1 Professional standards of                                                                                             A        -       -       B        -          c
ethics
1.3.2 Relationships with patients                                                                                           A        -       -       B        -          c
and staff
1.3.3 Legal directives                                                                                                      A        -       -       B        -          c
1.3.4 Rules governing patient                                                                                               A        -       -       B        -          c
confidentiality
1.3.5 Safeguard patient rights                                                                                              A        -       -       B        -          c



                                                                   25
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D        E               A               B                   C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials   Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC

1.3.6 Operations Security                                                                                                   A        -       -       -        -          -
(OPSEC) AFSC Vulnerabilities
  TR: AFI 10-701
2 Human Anatomy
2.1 Structure and function of
major body systems
  TR: Kaplan & Sadocks
Comprehensive Textbook of
Psychiatry
2.1.1 Respiratory                                                                                                           A        -       -       -        -          -
2.1.2 Cardiovascular                                                                                                        A        -       -       -        -          -
2.1.3 Hematopoletic/Lymphatic                                                                                               A        -       -       -        -          -
2.1.4 Allergy/Autoimmune                                                                                                    A        -       -       -        -          -
2.1.5 Neurological                                                                                                          A        -       -       B        -          -
2.1.6 Gastrointestinal                                                                                                      A        -       -       -        -          -
2.1.7 Sexual/Reproductive                                                                                                   A        -       -       -        -          -
2.1.8 Muscular Skeletal                                                                                                     A        -       -       -        -          -
2.2 Perform Physiological
measurements
  TR: Mosby's Textbook for
Nursing Assistants
2.2.1 Obtain and record vital signs                      *                                                                 2b        -       -       -        -          -
2.2.2 Measure and record body                                                                                               -        -       -       -        -          -
weight and height
2.3 Infection Control                                    *
  TR: Mosby's Textbook for
Nursing Assistants
2.3.1 Aseptic Measures                                   *                                                                 A         -       -       B        -          -
2.3.2 Perform correct hand                               *                                                                 2b        -       -       -        -          -
washing procedures
2.4 Perform Basic Cardiac Life                                                                                             3c        -       -       -        -          -
Support
  TR: Basic Life Support for
Healthcare Providers (AHA)
2.5 Principles of Air Force Safety
and Health programs
  TR: AFOSHSTD 91-8; AFI 31-
101
2.5.1 Internal and external duress                                                                                          A        -       -       -        -          -
systems
2.5.2 General safety practices                                                                                              A        -       -       B        -          -
governing inpatient units or clinic
treatment areas


                                                                   26
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D        E               A               B                   C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials   Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC

2.5.3 General safety practices                                                                                              A        -       -       B        -          -
governing outpatient units or clinic
treatment areas
3 Fundamentals of Mental Health
3.1 Theories of personality                              *
development
  TR: Personality Theories:
Development, Growth and
Diversity
3.1.1 Psychoanalytic                                                                                                        A        -       -       B        -          -
3.1.2 Humanistic                                                                                                            A        -       -       B        -          -
3.1.3 Behavioristic                                                                                                         A        -       -       B        -          -
3.1.4 Existential                                                                                                           A        -       -       B        -          -
3.1.5 Cognitive-Behavioral                                                                                                  A        -       -       B        -          -
3.2 Psychopathology                                                                                                         A        -       -       B        -          -
  TR: Personality Theories:
Development, Growth and
Diversity
3.3 Multiaxial assessment
  TR: DSM (current)
3.3.1 Use of the DSM                                     *                                                                  A        -       -       B        -          -
3.3.2 ICD Codes                                                                                                             A        -       -       -        -          -
  TR: ICD Codes - current edition
3.4 Mental Disorders                                     *
  TR: Current DSM
3.4.1 Disorders Usually First                                                                                               A        -       -       A        -          -
Diagnosed in Infancy, Childhood,
or Adolescence
3.4.2 Delirium, Dementia and                                                                                                A        -       -       A        -          -
Amnestic and Other Cognitive
Disorders
3.4.3 Mental Disorders Due to a                                                                                             A        -       -       A        -          -
General Medical Condition
3.4.4 Substance-Related Disorders                                                                                                    -       -       B        -          B
3.4.5 Schizophrenic and Other                                                                                               A        -       -       B        -          B
Psychotic Disorders
3.4.6 Mood Disorders                                                                                                        A        -       -       B        -          B
3.4.7 Anxiety Disorders                                                                                                     A        -       -       B        -          B
3.4.8 Somatoform Disorders                                                                                                  A        -       -       A        -          -
3.4.9 Factitious Disorders                                                                                                  A        -       -       A        -          -
3.4.10 Dissociative Disorders                                                                                               A        -       -       A        -          -
3.4.11 Sexual and Gender Identity                                                                                           A        -       -       A        -          -
Disorder
3.4.12 Eating Disorders                                                                                                     A        -       -       B        -          B

                                                                   27
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D        E               A               B                   C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials   Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC

3.4.13 Sleep Disorders                                                                                                      A        -       -       B        -          -
3.4.14 Impulse Control Disorders                                                                                            A        -       -       A        -          -
Not Elsewhere Classified
3.4.15 Adjustment Disorders                                                                                                 A        -       -       B        -          B
3.4.16 Personality Disorders                                                                                                A        -       -       B        -          B
3.4.17 Other Conditions that may                                                                                            A        -       -       A        -          -
be a Focus of Clinical Attention
3.4.18 Additional Codes                                                                                                     A        -       -       A        -          -
3.5 Cultural competence in                               *
counseling
  TR: Cultural Diversity: A
Primer for the Human Services
3.5.1 Ethnic                                                                                                                A        -       -       B        -          B
3.5.2 Race Issues                                                                                                           A        -       -       B        -          B
3.5.3 Age Issues                                                                                                            A        -       -       B        -          B
3.5.4 Gender Issues                                                                                                         A        -       -       B        -          B
3.5.5 Skills of the culturally                                                                                              A        -       -       B        -          B
competent counselor
3.6 Psychopharmacology                                   *
  TR: Principles and Practice of
Psychiatric Nursing
3.6.1 Major classes of drugs                                                                                                A        -       -       B        -          -
3.6.2 Indications                                                                                                           A        -       -       B        -          -
3.6.3 Desired effects                                                                                                       A        -       -       B        -          -
3.6.4 Side effects                                                                                                          A        -       -       B        -          -
3.7 Administrative Management
  TR: AFPD 44-1
3.7.1 Screen records for:
3.7.1.1 Personnel Reliability                            *                                                                  A        -       -       -        -          -
Program
  TR: AFI 36-2104
3.7.1.2 Security Clearances                              *                                                                  A        -       -       -        -          -
  TR: AFI 31-501
3.7.1.3 Mobility                                         *                                                                  A        -       -       -        -          -
  TR: AFI 48-123v4; AFI 41-106
3.7.2 Enter data into the Suicide                                                                                           A        -       -       -        -          -
Event Surveillance System (SESS)
  TR: AFPAM 44-160
3.7.3 Commander Directed                                 *                                                                  A        -       -       -        -          -
Mental Health Evaluations
  TR: AFI 44-109




                                                                   28
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D        E               A               B                   C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials   Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC

3.7.4 Evaluate and make treatment                                                                                           A        -       -       B        -          B
recommendations for eligible
civilian employees
  TR: AFI 36-810; AFI 41-210
3.7.5 Composite Healthcare                                                                                                  A        -       -       -        -          -
Computer System (CHCS)
  TR: Local Training
3.7.6 Joint Commission on                                                                                                   A        -       -       A        -          B
Accreditation of Healthcare
Organizations
  TR: Comprehensive
Accreditation Manual for
Behavioral Health
3.7.7 Health Services Inspections                                                                                           A        -       -       B        -          B
  TR: Public Health Self
Inspection Guide, Current HQ
AFIA Web-site
4 Patient Evaluation
  TR: The Psychiatric Interview:
A Practical Guide; Clinical
Interviewing; Global Criteria:
The 12 Core Functions of the
Substance Abuse Counselor;
ASAM PPC-2; AFI 44-121, AFI
36-810; Addiction Counseling
Competencies: The Knowledge
Skills and Attitudes of Professional
Practice; Loosening the Grip: A
Handbook of Alcohol Information
4.1 Conduct Patient Interview                            *
4.1.1 Interviewing techniques                                                                                               A        -       -       B        -          B
4.1.2 Create a therapeutic alliance                                                                                         A        -       -       B        -          B
and build rapport
4.2 Screening                                            *
  TR: Dual Disorders: Counseling
Clients with Chemical
Dependency and Mental Illness
4.2.1 Evaluate psychological,                                    *                                                          A        -       -       B        -          B
social, and physiological signs and
symptoms of mental disorders
4.2.2 Eligibility and                                            *                                                          A        -       -       B        -          B
appropriateness for services
4.2.3 Coexisting medical                                         *                                                          A        -       -       B        -          B
conditions


                                                                   29
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D        E               A               B                   C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials   Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC

4.2.4 Dual Diagnosis                                             *                                                          A        -       -       B        -          B

4.2.5 Disease Model of Addiction                                 *                                                          A        -       -       B        -          B
4.2.6 Biopsychosocial Model of                                   *                                                          A        -       -       B        -          B
Addiction
4.2.7 Pharmacology of Abused                                     *                                                          A        -       -       B        -          B
Drugs
4.2.8 Pharmacology of Alcohol                                    *                                                          A        -       -       B        -          B
Use
4.2.9 Chemically Dependent                                       *                                                          A        -       -       B        -          B
Families
4.2.10 Intake
  TR: The Psychiatric Interview:
A Practical Guide
4.2.10.1 Admissions forms                                                                                                   A        -       -       B        -          B
4.2.10.2 Consent for treatment                                                                                              A        -       -       B        -          B
4.2.10.3 Release of information                                                                                             A        -       -       B        -          B
  TR: AFI 33-332
4.2.10.4 Health Insurance                                                                                                   A        -       -       B        -          B
Portability and Accountability Act
(HIPAA)
4.2.11 Orientation                                       *
4.2.11.1 Program rules, goals,
objectives and operations
4.2.11.1.1 LSSC                                                                                                             A        -       -       B        -          B
4.2.11.1.2 ADAPT                                                                                                            A        -       -       B        -          B
4.2.11.1.3 FAP                                                                                                              A        -       -       B        -          B
4.2.11.2 Patient rights and                                                                                                 A        -       -       B        -          B
obligations
4.2.12 Assessment                                        *
  TR: The Psychiatric Interview:
A Practical Guide
4.2.12.1 Gather relevant history                                                                                           2b        -       -       B        -          B
from patient, records, or collateral
sources
4.2.12.2 Explore social history                                                                                            2b        -       -       B        -          B
4.2.12.3 Explore substance abuse                                                                                           2b        -       -       B        -          B
history
4.2.12.4 Conduct a mental status                                                                                           2b        -       -       B        -          B
examination
4.2.12.5 Identify patient strengths                                                                                        2b        -       -       B        -          B
and weaknesses
4.2.12.6 Identify and prioritize                                                                                           2b        -       -       B        -          B
patient problems and needs

                                                                   30
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D        E               A               B                   C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials   Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC

4.2.12.7 Substance Use                                                                                                      A        -       -       B        -          -
Assessment Tool
4.2.13 Administer, record and
score psychological tests
4.2.13.1 Beck Anxiety Inventory                                                                                             A        -       -       B        -          -
  TR: BAI, Beck Anxiety
Inventory: Manual
4.2.13.2 Beck Depression                                 *                                                                  A        -       -       B        -          -
Inventory
  TR: BDI-II, Beck Depression
Inventory: Manual
4.2.13.3 Outcome Questionnaire                           *                                                                  A        -       -       B        -          -
(OQ) 45
TR: Administration and Scoring
Manual for the OQ-45
4.2.13.4 Millon Clinical                                 *                                                                  A        -       -       B        -          -
Multiaxial Inventory (MCMI)
  TR: Manual for the MCMI-III,
NCS Interpretive Scoring Systems
4.2.13.5 Minnesota Multiphasic                           *                                                                  A        -       -       B        -          -
Personality Inventory (MMPI)
  TR: Manual for Administering
and Scoring the Minnesota
Multiphasic Personality Inventory-
2
4.2.13.6 Shipley Institute of                            *                                                                 2b        -       -       B        -          -
Living Scale (SILS)
  TR: Shipley Institute of Living
Scale Revised Manual
4.2.13.7 Wechsler Adult                                                                                                     A        -       -       B        -          -
Intelligence Scale (WAIS-III)
  TR: Manual for the Wechsler
Adult Intelligence Scale-II
4.2.13.8 Alcohol Use Disorders                           *                                                                  A        -       -       B        -          -
Identification Test (AUDIT)
  TR: The Alcohol Use Disorders
Identification Test: Guidelines for
Use in Primary Care
4.2.14 Treatment Planning                                *
  TR: Patient Placement Criteria
for the Treatment of Substance-
Related Disorders
4.2.14.1 Develop a written                                                                                                 2b        -       -       B        -          -
treatment plan


                                                                   31
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D        E               A               B                   C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials   Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC

4.2.14.2 Assessment results                                                                                                 A        -       -       B        -          B
4.2.14.3 Establish long and short                                                                                           A        -       -       B        -          B
term goals
4.2.14.4 Assist patient in                                                                                                  A        -       -       B        -          B
developing a relapse prevention
plan
4.2.14.5 Termination/discharge                                                                                              A        -       -       B        -          B
planning
4.2.14.6 Treatment methods and
resources
4.2.14.7 ASAM Patient Placement                                                                                             A        -       -       B        -          B
Criteria
4.2.15 Counseling                                        *
  TR: Theory and Practice of
Counseling and Psychotherapy;
Group Techniques; Groups:
Process and Practice
4.2.15.1 Conduct counseling                                                                                                2b        -       -       B        -          B
4.2.15.2 Cognitive Therapy                                                                                                 A         -       -       B        -          B
4.2.15.3 Motivational                                                                                                      A         -       -       B        -          B
Interviewing
4.2.15.4 Rational Emotive                                                                                                   A        -       -       B        -          B
Behavior Therapy (REBT)
4.2.15.5 Reality Therapy                                                                                                    A        -       -       B        -          B
4.2.15.6 Transactional Analysis                                                                                             A        -       -       B        -          B
4.2.15.7 Gestalt Therapy                                                                                                    A        -       -       B        -          B
4.2.15.8 Strategic Family Therapy                                                                                           A        -       -       B        -          B
  TR: Principles and Practices of
Psychiatric Nursing
4.2.15.9 Behavior Therapy                                                                                                   A        -       -       B        -          B
4.2.15.10 Client-Centered                                                                                                   A        -       -       B        -          B
Therapy
4.2.16 Conduct/co-facilitate group                       *
therapy
4.2.16.1 Therapeutic Groups                                                                                                A         -       -       B        -          B
4.2.16.2 Conduct                                                                                                           2b        -       -       B        -          B
Psychoeducational Groups
4.2.17 Case Management                                   *
  TR: Patient Placement Criteria
for the Treatment of Substance-
Related Disorders
4.2.17.1 Act as liaison between                                                                                             A        -       -       B        -          B
mental health services, base, unit,
or civilian agencies

                                                                   32
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D        E               A               B                   C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials   Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC

4.2.17.2 Coordinate                                                                                                         A        -       -       B        -          B
multidisciplinary activities
4.2.17.3 Treatment Team                                                                                                     A        -       -       B        -          B
Meetings (TTMs)
4.2.18 Crisis Intervention
  TR: Principles and Practice of
Psychiatric Nursing
4.2.18.1 Elements of a crisis                            *                                                                 A         -       -       B        -          B
4.2.18.2 Conduct Telephone                               *                                                                 2b        -       -       -        -          -
Triage
4.2.18.3 Respond to the suicidal                         *                                                                  A        -       -       B        -          -
patient
4.2.18.4 Respond to the homicidal                        *                                                                  A        -       -       B        -          -
patient
4.2.18.5 Initiate verbal                                 *                                                                 2b        -       -       B        -          -
intervention
4.2.18.6 Place patient in seclusion                                                                                        2b        -       -       B        -          -
4.2.18.7 Apply release techniques                                                                                          2b        -       -       B        -          -
4.2.18.8 Apply mechanical                                                                                                  2b        -       -       B        -          -
restraints
4.2.18.9 Apply manual restraints                                                                                           2b        -       -       B        -          -
4.2.18.10 Chemical/                                                                                                        A         -       -       B        -          -
Psychopharmacological Restraints
4.2.19 Client Education                                  *
  TR: AFI 44-121; Introduction to
Addictive Behaviors; Substance
Abuse Counseling: Theory and
Practice; Chemical Dependency:
A Family Affair; Loosening the
Grip: A Handbook of Alcohol
Information; AFPAM 44-160;
AFH 33-337
4.2.19.1 Types of Briefings
4.2.19.1.1 Informal Briefing                                                                                               A         -       -       B        -          -
4.2.19.1.2 Formal Briefing                                                                                                 A         -       -       B        -          -
4.2.19.1.3 Guided Discussion                                                                                               A         -       -       B        -          -
4.2.19.1.4 Educational                                                                                                     A         -       -       B        -          -
4.2.19.2 Develop Lesson Plan                                                                                               A         -       -       B        -          -
4.2.19.3 Conduct Briefings                                                                                                 2b        -       -       B        -          -
4.2.19.4 First Term Airman                                                                                                 A         -       -       B        -          -
Center Briefing
  TR: AFI 36-2252
4.2.19.5 Newcomers Orientation                                                                                              A        -       -       B        -          -
4.2.19.6 Overseas Orientation                                                                                               A        -       -       B        -          -

                                                                   33
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D        E               A               B                   C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials   Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC

4.2.19.7 Substance Awareness                                                                                                A        -       -       B        -          -
Seminar
4.2.19.8 Suicide Prevention and                                                                                             A        -       -       B        -          -
Workplace Violence
4.2.19.9 Stress Management                                                                                                  A        -       -       B        -          -
4.2.19.10 Anger Management                                                                                                  A        -       -       B        -          -
4.2.19.11 Key Personnel Briefing                                                                                            A        -       -       B        -          -
4.2.20 Referral                                          *
  TR: Patient Placement Criteria
for the Treatment of Substance-
Related Disorders
4.2.20.1 Identify and match                                                                                                2b        -       -       B        -          B
referral needs
4.2.20.2 Explain rationale for                                                                                             2b        -       -       B        -          B
referral
4.2.21 Reports and Record
Keeping
  TR: AFI 44-121; Clinical
Interviewing; AFI 41-210, AFI 36-
810, AFRIMS; Chemical
Dependency Counseling: A
Practical Guide; Mosby's Textbook
for Nursing Assistants; Taber's
Cyclopedia Medical Dictionary
4.2.21.1 Narrative method of                                                                                                A        -       -       -        -          -
documentation
  TR: Chemical Dependency
Counseling: A Practical Guide
4.2.21.2 Perform SOAPP method                            *                                                                 2b        -       -       -        -          -
of documentation
4.2.21.3 Records Maintenance and                         *                                                                  A        -       -       B        -          -
Disposition
4.2.21.4 Medical abbreviations                           *                                                                  A        -       -       -        -          -
4.2.21.5 Medical Terms                                   *                                                                  A        -       -       -        -          -
4.2.22 Consultation                                      *
  TR: Patient Placement Criteria
for the Treatment of Substance-
Related Disorders
4.2.22.1 Staff a case                                                                                                       A        -       -       B        -          -
4.2.22.2 Consultation resources                                                                                             A        -       -       B        -          -
4.2.22.3 Explain rationale for                                                                                              A        -       -       B        -          -
consultation to patient



                                                                   34
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D        E               A               B                   C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials   Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC

5 AF Substance Abuse Counselor
Certification Program
  TR: AF Substance Abuse
Counselor Certification Handbook
5.1 Substance Counselor                                  *                                                                  A        -       -       A        -          b
Certification Process
5.2 Written Case Presentation                                    *
5.3 Oral Presentation                                            *
5.4 Written Exam (ICRC)                                          *
6 Air Force Family Advocacy
Program (FAP)
  TR: AFI 40-301
6.1 FAP Maltreatment Program
6.1.1 FAP maltreatment program
administration
6.1.1.1 FAP maltreatment referral                                                                                           A        -       -       -        -          -
log
6.1.1.2 FAP records                                                                                                         A        -       -       -        -          -
6.1.1.3 Documentation - DD Form                                                                                             A        -       -       -        -          -
2486
6.1.1.4 Family Maltreatment Case                                                                                            A        -       -       -        -          -
Management Team (FMCMT)
6.1.1.5 Case Registry Board                                                                                                 A        -       -       -        -          -
Decision Tree
6.1.1.6 Child Sexual Maltreatment                                                                                           A        -       -       -        -          -
Response Team (CSMRT)
6.1.1.7 High Risk for Violence                                                                                              A        -       -       -        -          -
Response Team (HRVRT)
6.1.2 Family Maltreatment                                *
Interventions
6.1.2.1 Dynamics of abuse and                            *                                                                  A        -       -       B        -          -
neglect
6.1.2.2 Victim safety                                    *                                                                  A        -       -       B        -          -
6.1.2.3 Resources to aid both                            *                                                                  A        -       -       B        -          -
victims and offenders
6.2 Family Advocacy Prevention                                                                                              A        -       -       B        -          -
Program
7 Mental Health Readiness                                *
Mission
  TR: AFI 44-153; AFMS
CONOPS for MHRRT/MHAT;
AFMAN 10-100



                                                                   35
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D        E               A               B                   C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials   Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC

7.1 Initial Medical Readiness
training is provided by the
Expeditionary Medical Readiness
course conducted by 381 TRS,
Sheppard AFB, TX. This training
is documented on AETC Form
156. Continuation training is the
responsibility of each medical
facility.
  TR: AFI 41-106
7.2 Traumatic Stress Response
  TR: AFI 44-153
7.2.1 Pre-Exposure Preparation                                                                                              A        -       -       B        -          B
7.2.2 Group Informational                                                                                                   A        -       -       B        -          B
Briefing
7.3 Mental Health Rapid                                                                                                     A        -       -       B        -          -
Response Team (MHRRT)
mission (UTC:FFGKV)
7.4 Mental Health Augmentation                                                                                              A        -       -       B        -          -
Team (MHAT) mission
(UTC:FFGKU)
7.5 Contingency Aeromedical                                                                                                 A        -       -       B        -          -
Staging Facility (CASF) mission
(UTCs:FFVCF and FFVSF)
  TR: Air Force Medical Service
CONOPS
7.6 Combat Stress Facility                               *
7.6.1 Intervention for combat                                                                                               A        -       -       B        -          -
stress (BICEPS/PIE)
7.7 Combat Related Psychological                         *                                                                  A        -       -       B        -          -
Issues
7.8 Symptoms of Combat Stress
7.8.1 Disfigurement, and                                                                                                    A        -       -       B        -          -
Imminent Death
7.8.2 PTSD as related to Combat                                                                                             A        -       -       B        -          -
Stress
7.8.3 Perform Psychological                                                                                                2b        -       -       b        -          -
Triage
7.8.4 Conduct Field Assessment                                                                                             2b        -       -       B        -          -
7.9 Redeployment
7.10 Reintegration/Reunion
7.11 Joint Operations
7.11.1 U.S. Forces                                                                                                           -       -       -       A        -          B
7.11.2 Coalition Forces                                                                                                      -       -       -       A        -          B

                                                                   36
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D        E               A               B                   C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials   Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC

8 Aeromedical Evacuation                                 *
  TR: AFPD 41-3; AFI 41-301
8.1 Aeromedical terms                                                                                                      A         -       -       B        -          -
8.2 Perform Psych Patient                                                                                                  2b        -       -       B        -          -
Transfer
9 Supervision
9.1 Orient new personnel
  TR: AFI 36-2201 V3
9.2 Assign personnel to work area
  TR: AFI 36-2201V3
9.3 Establish/supervise work
assignments
  TR: AFI 36-2201v3; AFI 44-
102
9.4 Evaluate performance of
subordinates and complete rating
forms
  TR: AFPAM 36-2627; AFI 36-
2406
9.5 Utilize Qualification Training
Package (QTP) to evaluate training
  TR: AFI 36-2201V3
9.6 Interpret policies, directives,
or procedures for subordinates
  TR: AFI 36-2201 V3
9.7 Counsel personnel and resolve
individual problems
  TR: AFI 36-2201V3; AFI 36-
2907
9.8 Clinical Supervision                                                                                                     -       -       -       B        -          B
  TR: AFI 44-119
10 On-the-Job-Training (OJT)
  TR: AFI 36-2201V3
10.1 Evaluate personnel to
determine need for training
10.2 Plan and supervise OJT
10.3 Prepare and Maintain 6-Part
Enlisted Training and Competency
Folder
10.4 Prepare job qualification
standards
10.5 Conduct training
10.6 Counsel trainees on their
progress

                                                                   37
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D        E               A               B                   C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials   Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC

10.7 Monitor effectiveness of
training
10.8 Use CFETPs to manage work
center and individual training
10.9 Develop Master Training
Plan (MTP) to ensure completion
of all work center duty position
requirements
10.10 Administer the CDC
program for assigned trainees
10.11 Recommend the UTM
initiate personnel action on
trainees entering, completing, or
withdrawn from training
11 Qualification Training
Packages (QTPs)
11.1 Volume 1 - 12 Core                                          *
Functions
11.2 Volume 2 - Safety and                               *
Health Procedures
12 Managed Care
12.1 Define TRICARE/DoD
Managed Care
12.1.1 Evolution of Military
Medicine
12.1.2 Terminology
12.1.3 Organizational Structure
12.1.4 Operations
12.1.4.1 Financial                                                                                                           -       -       -       A        -          A
Management/Capitalization
12.1.4.2 Regulatory/Accreditation                                                                                            -       -       -       A        -          A
Requirements
12.1.5 Ethical/Legal Issues                                                                                                  -       -       -       A        -          A
Related to Managed Care
12.2 Health Care Systems
  TR: AFI 44-102; AFPD 41-2
12.2.1 Components of Military
Health System (MHS)
12.2.2 Health Care Benefits
Options
12.2.3 Marketing AFMS
12.3 Primary Care Management
(PCM) Concept:


                                                                   38
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D        E               A               B                   C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials   Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC

12.3.1 Primary Care                                                                                                         A        -       -       -        -          -
Provider/Manager/Team
Responsibilities
12.3.2 Beneficiary
Responsibilities
12.3.3 Primary Care Optimization                                                                                            A        -       -       -        -          -
12.4 Best Value Health Care
(Quality Management and
Utilization Management, QM/UM
model) (Link w/Goal 3)
12.5 Information Systems:
12.5.1 Defense Enrollment and
Eligibility Reporting System
(DEERS)
12.5.2 Air Force Performance
Measurement (AFPMT)
12.5.3 Advanced Technologies
(i.e. telemedicine)
13 Customer Service
   TR: Delivering Knock Your
Socks Off Service
13.1 AFMS Customer Service
Standards
13.2 Identification of Key AFMS
Customers
13.3 Customer Relationship
Programs
13.4 Attributes of Good Customer
Service
13.4.1 Determining Customer                                                                                                 A        -       -       -        -          -
Needs and Expectations
13.4.2 Practice Customer Care                            *
Basics
13.4.2.1 Listening Techniques                            *                                                                  A        -       -       -        -          -
13.4.2.2 Face-to-Face Contact                            *                                                                  A        -       -       -        -          -
13.4.2.3 Telephone Etiquette                             *                                                                  A        -       -       -        -          -
13.4.2.4 Initiating Appropriate                          *                                                                  A        -       -       -        -          -
Response in Dealing with Difficult
Customers
13.5 Patient Advocate Services                                   *
13.5.1 Mechanisms to Solicit                                     *
Customer Feedback
13.5.2 Measures of Customer                                      *
Satisfaction

                                                                   39
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D        E               A               B                   C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials   Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC

13.5.3 Processes to Design and/or                                *
Improve Products and Services
13.6 Complaint/Conflict                                                                                                     A        -       -       -        -          -
Resolution
13.7 Reinforcing Good Customer
Service
13.7.1 Feedback/Rewards and
Recognition for Good Customer
Service
13.7.2 Education and Counseling
to Improve Customer Service




                                                                   40
                   TRAINING REFERENCES (TR) SOURCE SUMMARY STS 4C0X1


                                        COMMERCIAL PUBLICATIONS

Allen, Bem P. Personality Theories: Development, Growth and Diversity. 5th Ed. Allyn & Bacon, 2005.

American Heart Association. Basic Life Support for Health Care Provider. current edition. National Center, 7272
    Greenville Ave., Dallas TX.

American Heart Association. Instructor’s Manual Basic Life Support. current edition. National Center, 7272 Greenville
    Ave., Dallas TX.

American Psychiatric Association. Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, DSM-IV-TR, current.
    Washington D.C.: American Psychiatric Association, 2000.
                                                                                                                  th
American Psychiatric Association. Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders DSM-IV-TR Case Book, 4
    ed. Washington D.C.

American Psychiatric Association. Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders DSM-IV-TR Study Guide,
    current edition. Washington D.C.

American Society of Addiction Medicine. Patient Placement Criteria for the Treatment of Substance-Related Disorders,
    2nd ed. revised (ASAM PPC-2R); Chevy Chase, MD 1996.

Anastasi, Anne. Psychological Testing. 6th ed., NY: MacMillan Co., 1988.

Anderson, Kristin and Zemke, Ron. Delivering Knock Your Socks Off Service. 3rd ed. NY: American Management
    Association, 2002
Association for Advanced Training in the Behavioral Sciences. Alcohol and Drug Abuse Counselors Certification Exam
    Home Study Program, Vol. I & II, 13th Series. 5126 Ralston St., Ventura, CA.

Babor, Thomas F., et al. The Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test: Guidelines for Use in Primary Care. 2nd ed.
    World Health Organization, Department of Mental Health and Substance Dependence, 2001.

Beck, Aaron T. BAI, Beck Anxiety Inventory: Manual. Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1990.

Beck, Aaron T. BDI-II, Beck Depression Inventory: Manual. 2nd ed. Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1996.

Blumenreich, Patricia E. and Lewis, Susan. Managing the Violent Patient: A Clinician’s Guide. 1st ed., NY:
    Brunner/Mazel, Inc.,1993.

Campbell, Robert J. Psychiatric Dictionary. 7th ed. Oxford University Press, 1996.

Carlat, Daniel J. The Psychiatric Interview: A Practical Guide. 2nd ed. Lippincott, Williams & Wilkins, 2004.

Carson, Robert C., et al. Abnormal Psychology and Modern Life. 11th ed. Allyn & Bacon, 2000.

Choca, James P. Interpretive Guide to Millon Clinical Multiaxial Inventory. 3rd ed. American Psychological
    Association, 2004.

Corey, Gerald and Corey, Marianne Schneider. Issues and Ethics in the Helping Professions. 7th ed. NY: Brooks,
    2006.

Corey, Gerald E. Group Process and Practices. 4th ed. Brooks/Cole Publishing Company, 1992.



                                                            41
Corey,Gerald, et al. Group Techniques. 3rd ed. Wadsworth Publishing, 2003.
Corey, Gerald. Theory and Practice of Counseling and Psychotherapy. 6th ed. Wadsworth Publishing, 2000.
Corey, Gerald. Theory and Practice of Counseling and Psychotherapy. 7th ed. Thomas: Brooks Cole, 2005.
Craighead, Linda, et al. Cognitive and Behavioral Interventions: An Empirical Approach to Mental Health Problems.
     Allyn and Bacon, 1994.
Curtis, Olivia. Chemical Dependency: A Family Affair. 1st ed. Wadsworth Publishing, 1998.
Daley, Dennis. Global Criteria: The 12 Core Functions of the Substance Abuse Counselor. 2nd ed. Learning
     Publications Inc., 1997.
Daley, Dennis C. et al. Dual Disorders: Counseling Clients With Chemical Dependency and Mental Illness. 3rd ed.
     Hazelden, 2002.
Diller, Jerry V. Cultural Diversity: A Primer for the Human Services. Wadsworth Publishing Co., 1998.

Dutton, Donald G. and Golant, Susan K. The Batterer: A Psychological Profile. Basic Books, 1997.
                                                  nd
Friedman, William H. How To Do Groups. 2 ed. Jason Aronson Inc., 1994.

Gladding, Samuel T. Counseling: A Comprehensive Profession. 5th ed. Prentice Hall, 2003.

Graham, John. MMPI-2 Assessing Personality and Psychopathology. 3rd ed. Oxford University, 1999.

Haber, Judith, et al. Comprehensive Psychiatric Nursing. 5th ed. C. V. Mosby, 1997.
Hester, Reid K., Miller, William R. Handbook of Alcoholism Treatment Approaches: Effective Alternatives. 2nd ed.
     Allyn and Bacon, 1995.
ICD.9.CM: Code Book for Physician Payments. current edition.
Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations. Comprehenesive Accreditation Manual for Behavioral
      Health. IL: Joint Commission Resources , Oakbrook Terrace, 2006.

Julia, Maria C. Multicultural Awareness in the Health Care Professions. 1st ed. Allyn & Bacon. 1995.

Kaplan, Harold J., and Sadlock, Benjamin J. Synopsis of Psychiatry. 8th ed. MD: Lippincot, Williams and Wilkins
    Co., 1998.

Kinney, Jean. Loosening the Grip: A Handbook of Alcohol Information. 8thed. McGraw-Hill, 2005.

Lambert, M. J., Hansen, N. B., Umphress, V., Lunnen, K., Okiishi, J., Burlingame, et al. Administration and scoring manual for the
    OQ-45.2. Stevenson, MD: American Professional Credentialing Services, 1996.

Lawson, Gary W. and Lawson, Anne W. Alcoholism and the Family: A Guide to Treatment and Preventio. 2nd ed.
    Aspen Publishers Inc., 1998.

Lukas, Susan. Where To Start and What To Ask: An Assessment Handbook. 1st ed. W. W. Norton & Company, 1993.
Manual for Administering and Scoring the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-2. NCS Interpretive Scoring
    Systems. Professional Assessment Service, P.O. Box 1416, Minneapolis MN.

Millon, Theodore. Manual for the MCMI-III, NCS Interpretive Scoring Systems. Professional Assessment Service, P.O.
     Box 1416, Minneapolis MN.

Miller, William R.and Rollnick, Stephen. Motivational Interviewing, Preparing People for Change. 2nd ed. London:
     The Guilford Press, 2002.
Patterson, Lewis E. and Eisenberg, Sheldon. The Counseling Process. 5th ed. Wadsworth Publishing, 1999.

Perkinson, Robert R. Chemical Dependency Counseling: A Practical Guide. 2nd ed. CA: Sage Publications, Inc., 2001.

                                                                    42
Rankin, Sally H. and Stallings, Karen D. Patient Education: Issues, Principles, and Practices. 3rd ed. Lippincott
    Williams & Wilkins. 1996.

Sadock, Benjamin J., MD and Sadock, Virginia A., MD. Kaplan & Sadocks Comprehensive Textbook of Psychiatry (2
    volume set). 7th ed., Lippincott, Williams, & Williams, 2000.
Sommers-Flanagan, John and Sommers-Flanagan, Rita. Clinical Interviewing. 3rd ed. NJ: John Wiley & Sons, Inc.,
   2003.
Sorrentino, Sheila A. Mosby’s Textbook for Nursing Assistants. 6th ed. C.V. Mosby Company, 2004.

Stevens, Patricia and Smith, Robert L. Substance Abuse Counseling: Theory and Practice. 3rd ed. Prentice Hall Inc.,
     2004.
Stuart, Gail Wisccarz, et al. Principles & Practice of Psychiatric Nursing. 7th ed. Mosby, 2000.

Thibodeau, Gary A. and Patton, Kevin T. Anatomy and Physiology. 6th ed. MO: Times Mirror/Mosby College
     Publishing, 2006.

Thombs, Dennis L. Introduction to Addictive Behaviors. NY: Guilford Publications, Inc., 1999.
Venes, Donald. Taber’s Cyclopedic Medical Dictionary. 20th rev ed. F. A. Davis Company, 2005.

Wechsler, David. Manual for the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-II. NY: The Psychological Corporation, 1981.

Yalom, Irwin D. and Leszez, Molyn. The Theory and Practice of Group Psychotherapy. 5th ed. NY: Basic Books,
    2005.

Zachary, Robert A. Shipley Institute of Living Scale Revised Manual. current edition. CA: Western Psychological Inc.,
    12031 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles CA 90025




                                      GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS

Public Law
Section 546 of Public Law 102-484, “National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993,” October 1992.

Department of Defense
DODD 6490.1, Mental Health Evaluations of Members of the Armed Forces. Oct 1, 1997.

DODI 6490.4, Requirements for Mental Health Evaluations of Members of the Armed Forces. Aug 28, 1997.

DODD 6495.1, Sexual Assault Prevention & Response (SAPR) Program. Oct 6, 2005.

DODD 7050-6, Military Whistleblower Protection. Jun 23, 2000.

DODR 5400.7, DOD Freedom of Information Act Program. Sep 4, 1998


Department of the Air Force
Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD)
AFMAN 10-100, Airman’s Manual
AFI 10-701. Operations Security (OPSEC)

                                                              43
AFI 31-101, Air Force Installation Security Program (FOUO)
AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program
AFI 33-360, Publications And Forms Management
AFH 33-337, Tongue and Quill
AFI 34-219, Alcoholic Beverage Program
AFPD 36-24, Military Evaluations
AFI 36-810, Substance Abuse Prevention and Control
AFI 36-2104, Nuclear Weapons Personnel Reliability Program (PRP)
AFI 36-2201V1, Training Development, Delivery, and Evaluation
AFI 36-2201V2, Air Force Training Program Training Management
AFI 36-2201V3, Air Force Training Program On The Job Training Administration
AFI 36-2252, First Term Airman Center
AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems
AFPAM 36-2627, Airman and NCO Performance Feedback System (EES)
AFI 36-2907, Unfavorable Information File (UIF) Program
AFI 36-2909, Professional and Unprofessional Relationships
AFSUPDODR 5400-7, Freedom of Information Act Program
AFI 37-138, Records Disposition Procedures and Responsibilities
AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy
AFPD 41-1, Health Care Programs and Resources
AFPD 41-2, Medical Support
AFI 41-106, Medical Readiness Planning and Training
AFI 41-209, Medical Logistics Support
AFI 41-210, Patient Administration Functions
AFI 41-214, Air Force Medical Logistics List Server
AFPD 41-3, Worldwide Aeromedical Evacuation
AFI 41-301, Worldwide Aeromedical Evacuation System
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations
AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management
AFI 44-109, Mental Health and Military Law
AFI 44-119, Clinical Performance Improvement
AFI 44-120, Drug Abuse Testing Program
AFI 44-121, Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment (ADAPT) Program
AFI 44-153, Traumatic Stress Response
AFI 44-154, Suicide and Violence Prevention Education and Training
AFPAM 44-160, The Air Force Suicide Prevention Program
AFI 48-123V1, Medical Examination and Standards Volume 1 – General Provisions
AFI 48-123V2, Medical Examination and Standards Volume 2 – Accession, Retention, and Administration


                                                             44
AFI 48-123V3, Medical Examination and Standards Volume 3 – Flying and Special Operational Duty
AFI 48-123V4, Medical Examination and Standards Volume 4 – Special Standards and Requirements
AFMS CONOPS for MHRRT/MHAT
AFOSHSTD 91-8, Medical Facilities
United States Air Force Family Advocacy Program Standards
USAFSAM & HQ AFIA, Public Health Self Inspection Guide. Website:
   http://www.brooks.af.mil/web/eh/html/office_mgt/sig.htm

Air Education and Training Command
HQ AETC/SGPC. United States Air Force Alcohol and Drug Abuse Counselor Certification Handbook

Department of the Army
FM 22-51, Leader’s Manual for Combat Stress Control. September 1994.


U.S. Department of Health and Human Services

DHHS Publication No. (SMA)98-3171, Addiction Counseling Competencies: The Knowledge, Skills, and Attitudes of
   Professional Practice, 1998.




                                                            45
Section B - Course Objective List

1. Note: The course objectives are available from the 383 TRS/XUFD, 939 Missile Road, Suite
3, Sheppard AFB, Texas, 73611-2263. These are the training objectives used to teach the
resident 3-level course.

Section C - Support Materials

1. Qualification Training Packages

Course Number                   Course Title
QTP 4C0X1-1                     12 Core Functions
                                (1 Volume 12
                                Modules)

QTP 4C0X1-2                     Safety and Health
                                Procedures (1 Volume
                                1 Module)


Section D - Training Course Index

1. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the specialty
and shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field training programs.

2. Air Force and other DOD In-Residence Courses.


       COURSE NUMBER        COURSE TITLE                               DEVELOPER

       J3ABR4C031 00AB      Mental Health Service Apprentice Course    Sheppard AFB, TX

       J3ATR40030 00AA      Basic Medical Readiness Course             Sheppard AFB, TX
                            USA Drug and Alcohol Rehab Training –
       *5H-F4/302-F4        Individual Course                          Fort Sam Houston, TX
                            USA Drug and Alcohol Rehab Training –
       *5H-F5/302-F5        Group Course                               Fort Sam Houston, TX
                            Army Substance Abuse Program Management
       *5H-F6               Course                                     Fort Sam Houston, TX
                            Army Substance Abuse Program Family
       *5H-F7/302-F7        Counseling Course                          Fort Sam Houston, TX
                            ASAP Clinical Consultant/Med Review Ofcr
       *5H-F9               Course                                     Fort Sam Houston, TX
                            Army Substance Abuse Program Advanced
       *5H-F10/302-F10      Counseling Course                          Fort Sam Houston, TX




                                                46
3. Other MAJCOM and FOA Courses

COURSE NUMBER               COURSE TITLE                     DEVELOPER

J3AIRTXXX 0B1A *            Basic Instructor Course          Sheppard AFB, TX
                            Technical Training Teaching      Sheppard AFB, TX
J3AIRTXXXX 0P1A*            Internship
J3AIRTXXXX 0T1A**           Technical Writer Principles      Sheppard AFB, TX
E6AZU3S200 015**            CDC Writers Course               Keesler AFB, TX

MECI 100**                  AFIADL Course for Authors        Maxwell AFB, Gunter Annex,
                                                             AL

*Mandatory training for Resident Instructor positions **Mandatory training for CDC Technical
Writers

4. AFIADL Courses

   COURSE NUMBER                     COURSE TITLE

   CDC 4C051                         Mental Health Service Journeyman

   CDC 4C071                         Mental Health Service Craftsman

5. Exportable Courses: There are currently no exportable courses.

6. Courses Under Development/Revision: The Apprentice Course, Journeyman Course and
Craftsman Course are currently being revised.

Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements

1. NOTE: There are currently no MAJCOM unique requirements. This area is reserved.

Section F - Documentation of Training

1. Work Center Training Plan and the Enlisted Training and Competency Folder. The
focus of this training guidance is to bring all training documentation back into one “OJT” record.
Changing medical training requirements by JCAHO created a need for additional ways to
document training outside the OJT record. The end result was that each training location created
different ways to document training; a standardized process was needed. Air Force Instruction
36-2201, Volume 3, authorizes Career Field Managers to bring training documentation back into
one “OJT” record, thus the creation of the Enlisted Training and Competency Folder. All Mental
Health Technician personnel, from Airman Basic to Chief Master Sergeant, will have an Enlisted
Training Competency Folder. The folder will be kept current for the present duty position. It is
recommended that the folder be maintained for future reference even if the individual leaves the
career field. Airman Basic thru TSgt must maintain a current CFETP.



                                               47
1.1. The following information provides specific guidance along with recommended
documentation, consistent with current Air Force instruction/directives. This training guidance
has focused on two main areas: 1) developing a Master Training Plan and 2) documenting
training in the Enlisted Training and Competency Folder. Although not mandated, each part of
the competency folder may contain separate indexed tabs or tabbed dividers for the
documentation of different categories of training.

2. Master Training Plan (MTP).

2.1. The Master Training Plan is a guide developed for each section that outlines the tasks
unique to that section and documents the training for individuals assigned. The MTP is used to
standardize training and to give trainers, trainees, supervisors, NCOICs, and OICs an overview
of the training process for the duty section.

2.2. The Master Training Plan is an overview of training for the duty section. It should include
all documents involved in the training process for the duty section. Training will vary slightly
from section to section and person to person, but there are certain documents that are a standard
requirement for all MTPs. They are listed below.

2.2.1. Master task list (MTL). The MTL identifies all day-to-day mission (duty position)
requirements, core tasks, in-garrison (local) and contingency tasks, and additional duties
performed by work center personnel.

2.2.2. Current CFEPT or AFJQS (if available).

2.2.3. Locally developed AF Form 797, Job Qualification Standard (JQS) Continuation Sheet (if
applicable).

2.2.4. Milestones for tasks and CDC completion (identify the projected time frame the trainee
will complete their core tasks and each set of CDCs as required).

Note: Any one-deep work centers, or those with fully qualified senior NCOs (skill level
commensurate with their grade), require only a MTL.

Recommendation: Each MTP should have an official memorandum from the work-center
supervisor addressing key issues peculiar to the work-center and implementation of the MTP.

3. Documentation of Training (The Enlisted Training and Competency Folder).

3.1. The purpose of this section is to provide guidelines and examples of proper documentation
for the many forms used in training all enlisted mental health personnel. Training documentation
helps to assess readiness capability, individual strengths and weaknesses, and resources needed
to support quality patient care. It also aids compliance with all Joint Commission on
Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO) and Health Services Inspections (HSI)
regulatory requirements. The Enlisted Training and Competency Folder is limited to the forms
presented here and those prescribed in AFI 36-2201V3. Remember, accurate documentation of
all training and clear statements in the 623a are the key to your credibility as a supervisor. Unit
Training Managers can provide assistance with training documentation.


                                                48
3.2. Documents included in the 4C0X1 Training and Competency Folder.

3.2.1. Assemble the 4C0X1 training record using a standard 6-part folder (NSN 7530-00-990-
8884, Folder, 6 Section). Attach a computer generated or typewritten label centered on the front
cover entitled, “Enlisted Training and Competency Folder” with the member’s full name (last
name, first name, middle initial), rank and last 4 digits of the SSAN. An AFVA 205-15,
“PRIVACY ACT STATEMENT” will be placed below the Title and Trainee information. These
labels will be centered and attached to the front cover as shown in Figure 1. To facilitate filing,
other sections of the 6-part folder are discussed in detail in the paragraphs below.




                              ENLISTED TRAINING AND COMPETENCY
                                           FOLDER


                            Freely, Ike P.                            XXX-XX-6875




                                          PERSONAL DATA
                                        PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
                                            (5 U.S.C. 552a)
                                         01 August 2000        AFVA 33-276




             Figure 2, Front Cover of Enlisted Training and Competency Folder.

3.2.2. Index tabs/tabbed dividers may be used in parts that contain multiple documents. When
multiple copies of any form are placed in the OJT record, they are placed in chronological order
with the most current documentation on top. When building the new 6-part folder, the parts of
the folder will contain the documents filed in the sequence, shown in Figure 2.




                                                          49
                       ENLISTED TRAINING AND COMPETENCY FOLDER

PART 1                           PART 3                                        PART 5
                                 Section A: AF Form 1098 Mandatory
                                 Training to include Quarterly AED Training,   - AF Form 2096 or MILPDS product
- AF Form 55-Safety Training
                                 LOAC, Age Specific Training, Inservices,      showing upgrade
                                 HIPAA, Ready Program Training, etc.
                                 Section B: AF Form 1098 documenting
                                 recurring QTP Completion
                                 Section C: AF Form 1098 or RSV Website
                                 Form for RSV documentation
PART 2                           PART 4                                        PART 6
                                                                               Section A: Continuing Education
Section A: AF Form 623B          Section A: AF Form 623As
                                                                               Documentation
Section B: Entire CFETP          Section B: AETC 156 and CDC Score             Section B: Certificates required by
                                 Cards, Unit Review Field Scoring Sheets,      the Career Field Manager - 4C0X1 –
                                 Other AFIADL Forms. (Removed after            Mental Health Technician Certificate
                                 upgrade)                                      Certified Alcohol and Drug Abuse
                                                                               Counselor (CADAC) Certificate
                                 Section C: AF Form 803 (Removed after         Section C: Career Field Directed
Section C: AF Form 797
                                 upgrade or no longer applicable)              Documents

                          Figure 2, Organization of the 4COX1 OJT Record.

3.2.3. Part 1, the first two-pronged section, is located inside the front cover. AF Form 55 -
Employee Safety and Health Record, is also maintained in Part 1, regardless of grade or training
status. AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety Fire Protection, and
Health (AFOSH) Program, June 1996, authorizes supervisors to file the AF Form 55 with the AF
Form 623, Individual Training Record Folder.

3.2.4. Part 2 Section A should contain the AF Form 623B. Note: IAW AFI 36-2201V3,
maintenance of AF Form 623 is mandatory for all Airmen in grades Airmen Basic through
Technical Sergeant. In addition, an AF Form 623 is required for SNCOs regardless of grade, in
retraining status or as directed by the Air Force career field manager. A two-part adhesive
backed form, AF Form 623b, is available and will be used to document 4C0X1 training in lieu of
the cardboard folder version of AF Form 623. Place the two-part form on cardstock or similar
durable material and place in Part 2 of the Educational Folder. Transfer all information from the
old form to the new one. Ensure all appropriate areas of the form are properly completed before
posting in Part 2. This document is formally recognized by the personnel system in contingencies
and deployments as the official "cover" of the formal training record.

3.2.4.1. Part 2 Section B should contain the entire Career Field Education and Training Plan
(CFETP).

3.2.4.2. Part 2 Section C should contain the AF Form 797 (see Figure 3). The three sections
within part 2 should remain in the proper order, with section A being on top.




                                                   50
                                Figure 3, Sample AF Form 797


3.2.5. Part 3 Section A, contains AF Form 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring
Training. This form is used to document qualification in tasks that require recurring, mandatory,
and/or in-service training. The following subparagraphs provide examples of how part 3 must be
subdivided to document specific types of special or recurring training. AFSC 4N0X1 examples
were used in illustrating AF Form 1098 documentation.



                                               51
3.2.5.1. AF Form 1098s in Part 3, Section A, documents mandatory recurring training (see
Figure 4) and in-service training. For instance, personnel assigned to a healthcare facility are
required to maintain Basic Life Support for Healthcare Providers certification and other
mandated training as stipulated by JCAHO standards, Air Force, or facility directives.
Mandatory training requirements may vary from facility to facility. At a minimum, these
requirements should be reviewed on an annual basis and updated as required.




                             Figure 4, Sample use of AF Form 1098

3.2.5.2. AF Forms 1098 in Part 3, Section B, document ongoing completion of Qualification
Training Packages (QTPs) if applicable. Air National Guard sustainment training will also be
documented in this section. Air Force Reserve sustainment training will be documented on
AFRES Form 16, Sustainment Training Program, and filed in this section. The initial
completion of a QTP is documented in the CFETP. Each QTP required for the duty section will


                                                 52
be maintained in the MTP and will be used as a training source document. Locally developed
competency packages can be utilized until QTPs are available.

3.2.5.3. AF Forms 1098 in Part 3, Section C will be used to document RSV training. The
printable form from the RSV website may be used to document this training.

3.2.6. Part 4 Section A will contain the AF Form 623a, OJT Training Record Continuation
Sheet/Automated Product. This form will be utilized to document all progress of individual
training to include facility orientation, duty section specific orientation, upgrade/job qualification
training, additional pertinent training, career development course (CDC) failures/corrective
actions, skill level/task decertification procedures, and supervisor/trainer/certifier entries. The
entire process must be well documented on this form (See Figures 5, 5.1, 5.2). All individuals
involved in the training process must document training progress as it occurs in this section.
(Both the supervisor and trainee must sign and date all entries). Progress/status of members in
upgrade training status will be documented at least monthly.

3.2.6.1. The following subparagraphs give examples of information that should be documented.

3.2.6.1.1. Upgrade training (5-7-9-skill levels).

3.2.6.1.2. Document the members entry into upgrade training and periodic (minimum monthly)
evaluations of training progress.

3.2.6.1.3. Information on extensions, waiver requests, or breaks in training should also be clearly
documented with copies of any related correspondence.

3.2.6.1.4. Any further training pertinent to the duty section and or unit effectiveness can also be
documented on the AF Form 623a; i.e. job qualification.

3.2.6.1.5. Document any decertification proceedings to include dates, reasons for decertification,
and other applicable information on the AF Form 623a.

3.2.6.1.6. Once an individual completes upgrade training commensurate to his/her rank and
maintains an appropriate skill level, his/her supervisor should continue to review requirements,
progress, and individual training needs. OJT record reviews should, at a minimum, coincide with
member’s performance feedbacks to ensure documentation currency and appropriateness.




                                                    53
Figure 5, Sample AF Form 623a Entry


                54
Figure 5.1, Sample Initial Upgrade Training Briefing.

                         55
                Figure 5.2, Sample Upgrade Documentation (4N0XX Model).


3.2.6.2. The Job Description /Performance Standards for each duty position should be
maintained in the MTP within individual duty sections. An AF Form 623a reflecting the
members job description/performance standard will be maintained in Part 4 of the OJT record.
Note: An AF Form 623A overprint/automated product may be used to document both
                                              56
supervisor/subordinate reviews (see figure 6). The following statements will be annotated and
jointly reviewed by the supervisor /subordinate:

3.2.6.2.1. “I know where to find a current copy of my Job Description/ Performance Standards.”

3.2.6.2.2. “I have read, discussed with my supervisor, and understand my Job
Description/Performance Standards.”

3.2.6.2.3. “I understand my duties and responsibilities for the position that I am currently
working in.”

3.2.6.2.4. “If I have questions or concerns about my Job Description/Performance Standards, I
will seek assistance from supervisory personnel in my chain of command.”

3.2.6.2.5. “It is my responsibility to review my Job Description/Performance Standards with my
supervisor during each feedback session and with each change in supervisor/duty position.”

3.2.6.3. A signature and date block for both supervisor and subordinate will reflect mutual
understanding of above statements. Recommend several signature and date spaces for continual
review process when overprint/automated products are utilized.




              Figure 6, Sample Job Description/Performance Standards Review.

                                                 57
3.2.6.4. Part 4 Section B will contain the AETC Form 156 received from the Mental Health
Service Apprentice Course. This document may be removed after the individual is upgraded to a
5-level. This section will also contain CDC scorecards.

3.2.6.5. Part 4 Section C will contain the AF Form 803, Report of Task Evaluations. This form
will be removed after the individual is upgraded or when it is no longer applicable.

3.2.7. Part 5 will contain the AF Form 2096, Classification On-The-Job Training Action. This
form will be used to document official training actions, i.e. award of skill level, training status
changes, decertification, and award of special experience identifiers (SEIs).
NOTE: A MilPDS automated document may be substituted for AF Form 2096.

3.2.8. Part 6 Section A contains any documentation pertaining to continuing Education. This
part will contain the National Certification/Registration and Continuing Education Reports as
applicable to the members AFSC/current duty position. The form must contain documentation
of the individual’s current certification card number and expiration date. Supervisors and
individuals should continually monitor CEU status for AFSC’s requiring specialty
certification to ensure no lapses in certification occur. Maintenance of certificates of training
completion is an individual responsibility. Certificates of training will not be maintained in the
OJT record. However, members must retain all certificates as verification of formal training.

3.2.8.1. Part 6 Section B holds any particular certificates required by the career field. The career
field manager is authorized to supplement or revise the general guidance for the CFETP to
ensure that documents filed in the 6-part folder accurately reflect the needs of their
AFSC/medical specialties.

3.2.8.2. Part 6 Section C holds any additional documents as directed by the career field manager.
This includes any education directly related to Certified Drug and Alcohol Counselors (CADAC)
certification that would be approved for continuing education hours. Maintain a copy of state
and national certification certificates, certificates of training and other supporting documentation
for Certified Drug and Alcohol Counselors (CADACs).

3.2.8.3. Guidance for the supervision of CADAC’s, CADAC’s in training, and the
documentation of supervision and competency assessments may be found in AFI 44-119,
Clinical Performance Improvement, Chap 6, sub-section 6.23. Additional guidance may also be
found in the Comprehensive Accreditation Manual for Behavioral Health Care, Sec 2,
Management of Human Resources, pp HR-3 thru HR-5.




                                                 58
