DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                       CFETP 3E8X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                           Parts I and II
Washington DC 20330-5000                                            5 August 2010
                                                          (Incorporating Change 2
                                                          Dated 1 November 2011)


                        AFSC 3E8X1
               EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL




                      CAREER FIELD
               EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                                    Table of Contents
PART I

Preface                                                 4

Abbreviations and Terms Explained                       5

Section A - General Information                         15
 Purpose of the CFETP
 Uses of the CFETP
 Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B - Career Field Progression and Information    17
 Specialty Descriptions
 Skill/Career Progression
   Apprentice (3-Level)
   Journeyman (5-Level)
   Craftsman (7-Level)
   Superintendent (9-Level)
   Civil Engineer Manager
 Training Decisions
 Community College of the Air Force
 Career Field Path

Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements           35
 Purpose
 Specialty Qualification Requirements
   Apprentice (3-Level)
   Journeyman (5-Level)
   Craftsman (7-Level)
   Superintendent (9-Level)
   Civil Engineer Manager

Section D - Resource Constraints                        43
 Purpose
 Training Constraints

Section E - Transitional Training Guide                 44

PART II

Section A - Specialty Training Standard                 45
 Implementation
 Purpose
 Recommendations
 Qualitative Requirements
 AFQTP Documentation Record

Section B - Course Objective List                        65

Section C - Support Materials                            66

Section D - Training Course Index                        67

Section E - Major Command (MAJCOM) Unique Requirements   68

Section F – Home Station Training                        69

Section G – EOD Standard Training Package                72
OPR: 366 TRS/TRR
Certified by: HQ AFCESA/CEOF
Supersedes: CFETP 3E8X1, 15 August 2007
Pages: 76
                      EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL
                                AFSC 3E8X1
                 CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

                                               PART I

Preface

 1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education and training requirements, training
support resources, and minimum core task requirements for this specialty. The CFETP will
provide personnel a clear career path to success and instill rigor in all aspects of career field
training.

 2. The CFETP consists of two parts; supervisors plan, manage, and control training within
their specialty using both parts of the plan.

   2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty.
   Section A explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career-field
   progression information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field
   path. Section C associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge,
   education, experience, training, and other). Section D indicates resource constraints.
   Section E identifies transition training guide requirements for SSgt through MSgt.

   2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard
   (STS) to include duties, tasks, and technical references to support training, Air Education
   and Training Command (AETC) conducted training, wartime course and core task, and
   correspondence course requirements. Section B contains the course objective list and
   training standards supervisors will use to determine if Airmen satisfied training
   requirements. Section C identifies available support materials. An example is a
   Qualification Training Package (QTP) which may be developed to support proficiency
   training). Section D identifies a training course index supervisors can use to determine
   resources available to support training. Included here are both mandatory and optional
   courses, as well as exportable courseware. Section E identifies MAJCOM-unique
   training requirements supervisors can use to determine additional training required for the
   associated qualification needs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II to
   identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.
   Section F identifies home station training references and course material required for this
   specialty in support of contingency/wartime training.

          2.2.1. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use part II to identify, plan and
          conduct training commensurate with overall goals of this guide.

 3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive
effective and efficient training at the appropriate points in their career. This plan will enable
us to train today’s work force for tomorrow’s jobs.




                                                       4
                                                     Abbreviations and Terms Explained


A1C – Airman 1st Class
ACES-OPS – Automated Civil Engineer System-Operations
ADL – Advanced Distributive Learning
AETC – Air Education and Training Command
AT – Advanced Training
AF – Air Force
AFCAT – Air Force Catalog
AFCEE – Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence
AFCESA – Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency
AFCFM – Air Force Career Field Manager
AFH – Air Force Handbook
AFI – Air Force Instruction
AFIADL – Air Force Institute of Advanced Distributive Learning
AFIND – Air Force Index
AFIT – Air Force Institute of Technology
AFJQS – Air Force Job Qualification Standard
AFMAN – Air Force Manual
AFOSH – Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
AFPAM – Air Force Pamphlet
AFPD – Air Force Policy Directive
AFQTP – Air Force Qualification Training Package
AFRC – Air Force Reserve Command
AFRL – Air Force Research Laboratory
AFS – Air Force Specialty
AFSC – Air Force Specialty Code
AFTR – Air Force Training Record
ALS – Airman Leadership School
AMN – Airman
ANG – Air National Guard
AS – Allowance Standard
BCE – Base Civil Engineer

                                           6
BMT – Basic Military Training
CBRN – Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear
CBRNE – Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High Explosive
CBT – Computer Based Training
CCAF – Community College of the Air Force
CDC – Career Development Course
CE – Civil Engineer
CEM – Chief Enlisted Manager
CEMAS – Civil Engineer Material Acquisition System
CerTest – Certification Testing
CFETP – Career Field Education and Training Plan
CFR – Code of Federal Regulations
CMSgt – Chief Master Sergeant
CoBRA – Combat Battlefield Ready Airman
COL – Course Objective List
COTS – Commercial Off The Shelf
CRA – Contingency Ready Airman
CSS – Contingency Support Staff
CTK – Consolidated Tool Kits
DL – Distance Learning
DoD – Department of Defense
DoDD – Department of Defense Directive
DoDI – Department of Defense Instruction
DoT – Department of Transportation
DRMO – Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office
DRU – Direct Reporting Unit
ECAMP – Environmental Compliance Assessment Management Programs
EIAP – Environmental Impact Analysis Program
EMIS – Environmental Management Information System
EPA – Environmental Protective Agency
EPC – Environmental Protection Committee
EPCRA – Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act
ESL – Equipment & Supplies Listing

                                         7
ESOH – Environmental Safety and Occupational Health
EST – Enlisted Specialty Training
ETL – Engineering Technical Letter
FAM – Functional Area Manager
FGS – Final Governing Standard
FHCTP – Federal Hazard Communication Training Program
FIFRA – Federal Insecticide Fungicide and Rodenticide Act
FOA – Field Operating Agency
FPCON – Force Protection Condition
FSTR – Full Spectrum Threat Response
FTD – Field Training Detachment
GED – General Education Development
GER – General Education Requirements
GPC – Government Purchase Card
HAZCOM – Hazard Communication
HAZMART – Hazard Materials Pharmacy
HAZMAT – Hazardous Material
HAZWASTE – Hazardous Waste
HAZWOPER – Hazardous Waste Operations
HQ – Headquarters
HST – Home Station Training
HYT – High Year Tenure
IAW – In Accordance With
ISD – Instructional System Development
IWIMS – Interim Work Information Management System
JIT – Just In Time
LBP – Lead-Based Paint
LMS – Learning Management System
MAJCOM – Major Command
MOPP – Mission Oriented Protective Posture
MSDS – Material Safety Data Sheet
MSgt – Master Sergeant
MTT – Mobile Training Team

                                         8
NBC – Nuclear, Biological, Chemical
NCOA – Non-Commissioned Officer Academy
NEPA – National Environmental Policy Act
NIOSH – National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health
OEBGD – Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance Document
OJT – On-the-Job Training
OPR – Office of Primary Responsibility
OSHA – Occupational Safety and Health Administration
OSR – Occupational Survey Report
POI – Plan of Instruction
PoP – Performance-oriented Packaging Standards
PPE – Personal Protective Equipment
Prime BEEF – Prime Base Engineer Emergency Force
QAE – Quality Assurance Evaluation
QAP – Quality Assurance Personnel
QDR – Quality Deficiency Report
QT – Qualification Training
RAM – Read Ahead Material
RCRA – Resources Conservation and Recovery Act
RD&A – Research, Development, and Acquisition
RED HORSE – Rapid Engineer Deployable Heavy Operational Repair Squadron Engineers
SABER – Simplified Acquisition of Base Engineering Requirements
SAV – Staff Assistance Visit
SKT – Specialty Knowledge Test
SME – Subject Matter Expert
SMSgt – Senior Master Sergeant
SNCOA – Senior Non-Commissioned Officer Academy
SORTS – Status of Resources and Training System
SOFA – Status of Forces Agreement
SOP – Standard Operating Procedures
SrA – Senior Airman
SRC – Survival Recovery Center
SSgt – Staff Sergeant

                                         9
STS – Specialty Training Standard
TAFMS – Total Active Federal Military Service
TG – Technical Guide
TIDES – Training Impact Decision System
TM – Technical Manual
TO – Technical Order
TPT – Training Plan Team
TQT – Task Qualification Training
TR – Training Reference
TSgt – Technical Sergeant
TTG – Technical Training Graduate
U&TW – Utilization and Training Workshop
UCC – Unit Control Center
UEC – Unit Environmental Coordinator
UETM – Unit Education and Training Manager
UGT – Up-Grade Training
UN – United Nations
USDA – United States Department of Agriculture
UTC – Unit Type Code
VTS – Video Teleseminar
VTT – Video Teletraining
WAPS – Weighted Airman Promotion System
WMP – War Mobilization Plan
WRM – War Reserve Material


Advanced Distributive Learning (ADL) – Anytime, anyplace learning within the DoD
consisting of instructional modules comprised of sharable content objectives in an
Internet/Intranet environment.

Advanced Training (AT) – A formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in
one or more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to
enhance their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career Airmen at the
advanced level of the AFS.

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) – An individual on the Air Staff charged with
the responsibility for overseeing all training and career field management aspects of an Air
Force specialty or group of specialties.

                                          10
Air Force Job Qualification Standard/Command Job Qualification Standard
(AFJQS/CJQS) – A comprehensive task list that describes a particular job type or duty
position. Used by supervisors to document task qualifications. The tasks on AFJQS/CJQS
are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Air Force Qualification Training Package (AFQTP) – An instructional package for use at
the unit to qualify, or aid qualification, in a duty position, program, or on a piece of
equipment. AFQTPs identify the Air Force’s standardized method of performing the task.
The AFQTP may be printed (paper-based), computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.

Air Force Training Record (AFTR) – Web-based relational database used to track
personnel’s upgrade training requirements. (Formerly known as COVER Train)

Basic Expeditionary Airfield Resources (BEAR) – Facilities, equipment, and basic
infrastructure to support the bed down of deployed forces and aircraft at austere locations; a
critical capability to fielding expeditionary aerospace forces. Resources include tents, field
kitchens, latrine systems, shop equipment, electrical and power systems, runway systems
aircraft shelter, and water systems needed to sustain operations.

Battlefield Airman - Airmen specifically identified as Battlefield Airmen perform tasks to
integrate and synchronize air and space operations in the deep or extended battle space.
These airmen routinely fight with joint maneuver and SOF units.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) – A comprehensive, multipurpose
document encapsulating the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field. It
outlines a logical growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career
field training identifiable, to eliminate duplication, and to ensure this training is budget
defensible.

Certification and Testing (CerTest) – A multi-media evaluation program used to test an
individual’s knowledge of principles and procedures in their career field.

Commercial Off The Shelf (COTS) – Commercially procured training products.

Computer Based Training (CBT) – A self-paced stand-alone computer product used to
deliver interactive subject and task knowledge.

Contingency Ready Airman (CRA) – A technical training graduate (TTG) capable of
deploying and performing as an apprentice level within the designated AFSC the day they get
to their first duty location.

Contingency Wartime Task – Basic wartime skills, knowledge, and major common
contingency/wartime tasks that Prime BEEF teams members will be required to perform.
These tasks are listed in AFPAM 10-2 19, Volume 10, Contingency Training Guide and Task
Standards.




                                              11
Continuation Training – Additional training exceeding requirements with emphasis on
present and future duty assignments.

Core Task – A task Air Force Career Field Managers (AFCFM) identified as a minimum
qualification requirement within an Air Force specialty or duty position. These tasks
exemplify the essence of the career field.

Course Objective List (COL) – A publication derived from initial and advanced skills
course training standard, identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective
standards provided to achieve a 3, 5, and 7-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the
COL to assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 3 6-2201, Volume
1, Training Development, Delivery, and Evaluation.

Critical Task – Tasks that have been identified by the work center supervisor as having a
detrimental effect on mission accomplishment if not performed correctly. Critical tasks may
or may not be the same as core tasks but are mandatory if identified as 'critical' to the
individual's position by the supervisor or work center.

Desire List – An inquiry product run by the Military Personnel Flight (MPF) to reflect a
listing of levies tasked to a unit, and the unit personnel currently eligible to fill the
requirements. The Desire List is a flexible product in that various personnel aspects can be
queried.

Diamond Tasks ( ) - Diamond tasks are extremely important to the career field. Diamond
                   •



tasks are the same as core tasks with one exception--equipment shortfalls at most locations
have created problems with the actual hands-on certification of these tasks. In instances
where required equipment is not available for instruction, completion of the task’s AFQTP
and passing the corresponding CerTest is all that is required for upgrade and qualification
training. Hands-on certification should be accomplished at the first opportunity when
equipment is available.

Distance Learning (DL) – Includes video tele-seminar (VTS), video tele-training (VTT),
and computer-based training (CBT). These are formal courses that a training wing or a
contractor develops for export to a field location (in place of resident training) for trainees to
complete without the on-site support of the formal school instructor. For instance, courses
are offered by Air Force Institute of Technology, Air University, and Training Detachments.

Duty Position Task – The tasks assigned to an individual for the position currently held.
These include as a minimum all core tasks, critical tasks, and any other tasks assigned by the
supervisor.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST) – A mix of formal training (technical school) and
informal training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a
specialty.

Exportable Training – Additional training via computer-assisted, paper text, interactive
video, or other necessary means to supplement training.




                                             12
Field Technical Training (Type 4 and Type 7) – Special or regular on-site training
conducted by a Field Training Detachment (FTD) (Type 4) or by a Mobile Training Team
(MTT) (Type 7).

Go/No Go – The stage at which an individual has gained enough skill, knowledge, and
experience to perform the tasks without supervision. Trainee has met the task
standard.

Home Station Training (HST) – Training conducted at the individual’s home station for
contingency operations. Civil Engineer training requirements, frequencies, and sources are
listed in AFI 10-2 10, Prime Base Emergency Engineer Force (BEEF) Program.

Initial Skills Training – AFS-specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air
Force or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. Normally, this
training is conducted by AETC at one of the technical training wings.

Instructional System Development (ISD) – A deliberate and orderly, but flexible, process
for planning, developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures
personnel are taught in a cost-efficient way the knowledge, skills, and attitudes essential for
successful job performance.

Just-in-Time (JIT) Training – Training required just prior to a selected deployment that
delivers training necessary for mission accomplishment. It is typically predicated on hard to
obtain contingency skills.

Learning Management System (LMS) – An automated web-based distributive learning
system that delivers standard knowledge-based material to personnel, allowing for academic
self-paced learning and providing the ability to access material anytime..anywhere.

MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM) – An individual responsible for the management
and planning of all personnel and equipment within a specific functional area to support
wartime and peacetime contingencies

Occupational Survey Report (OSR) – A detailed report showing the results of an
occupational survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT) – Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify
personnel in both upgrade (skill level award) and job qualification (duty position
certification) training.

Optimal Training – The ideal combination of training settings resulting in the highest levels
of proficiency on specified performance requirements within the minimum time possible.

Proficiency Training – Additional training, either in-residence, exportable advanced
training courses, or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and
knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade.




                                              13
Qualification Training (QT) – Actual hands-on task performance training designed to
qualify an individual in a specific duty position. This portion of the dual channel on-the-job
training program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to
provide the performance skills required to do the job.

Readiness Training Package (RTP) – Establishes standard levels of knowledge and
proficiency for common Full Spectrum Threat Response (FSTR) and Readiness subject areas
by providing instructors with training references, materials, and lesson objectives used in
teaching and evaluating the course subject matter.

Representative Sites – Typical organizational units having similar missions, weapon
systems or equipment, or a set of jobs, used as a basis for estimating average training
capacities and costs within the Training Impact Decision System (TIDES).

Resource Constraints – Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower,
or equipment that precludes desired training from being delivered.

Skills Training – A formal course resulting in the award of a skill level.

Specialty Training – A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (on-
the-job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in the award of a skill level.

Specialty Training Standard (STS) – Describes skills and knowledge that Airmen in a
particular AFS need on the job. It further serves as a contract between the Air Education and
Training Command (AETC) and the user to show the overall training requirements for an
AFS taught in the resident and nonresident courses.

Spin-up Training (SUT) - Training required just prior to a select deployment that delivers
training necessary for mission accomplishment. It is typically predicated on hard to attain
contingency skills.

Standard – An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, established and defined
by authority, custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring
quantities or qualities, establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results; a fixed
quantity or quality.

Supplemental Training – Training for a portion of an AFS without a change in AFSC.
Formal training on new equipment, methods, and technology that are not suited for on-the-
job training.

Task Qualification Training (TQT) – Training that ensures an individual can perform
mission essential tasks in the environment in which they perform those tasks.

Total Force – All collective Air Force components (Active Duty, Reserve, Guard, and civilian
elements) of the United States Air Force.




                                             14
Training Capacity – The capability of a training setting to provide training on specified
requirements, based on the availability of resources.

Training Impact Decision System (TIDES) – A computer-based decision support
technology designed to assist Air Force Career Field Managers (AFCFM) in making critical
judgments relevant to what training should be provided to personnel within career fields,
when training should be provided (at what career points), and where training should be
conducted (training setting). A TIDES template is used Air Force-wide for standardization
and formatting of CFETPs.

Training Planning Team (TPT) – Comprised of the same personnel as a U&TW, however,
TPTs are more intimately involved in training development and the range of issues is greater
than is normal in the U&TW forum.

Training Requirements Analysis – A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFS to be
included in the training decision process.

Upgrade Training (UGT) – Identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification
requirements, and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 5, 7, and
9-skill levels.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) – A forum of the Air Force Career Field
Managers (AFCFM), MAJCOM Functional Area Managers (FAM), Subject Matter Experts
(SME), and AETC training personnel that determine career ladder training requirements.




                                            15
                                Section A - General Information

 4. Purpose. This CFETP provides the information necessary for Air Force Career Field
Managers (AFCFM), MAJCOM Functional Managers (MFM), commanders, training
managers, supervisors and trainers, to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective career
field training program. This plan outlines the training that individuals in the AFS should
receive in order to develop and progress throughout their career. This plan identifies initial
skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency training. Initial skills training is
the AFS specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon
retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. Normally, this training is
conducted by AETC at one of the technical training centers. Upgrade training identifies the
mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, and correspondence course completion
requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, 9-skill level. Qualification training is actual hands-
on task performance training designed to qualify an airman in a specific duty position. This
training program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to
provide the performance skills and knowledge required to do the job. Advanced Training is
formal specialty training used for selected airmen. Proficiency training is additional
training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training courses, or on-the-job training
provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required
for upgrade. The CFETP has several purposes--some are:

   4.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field
   training program. Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate
   point in an individual’s career.

   4.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the
   specialty and recommends education and training throughout each phase of an individual’s
   career.

   4.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and
   training delivery methods.

   4.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired
   career field training process.

 5. Uses. The plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure
comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the
specialty.

   5.1. AETC training personnel will develop or revise formal resident, nonresident, field
   and exportable training based upon requirements established by the users and documented
   in Part II of the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM, Air Force Civil Engineer
   Support Agency Force Development Division (HQ AFCESA/CEOF), to develop
   acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified training.

   5.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial,
   upgrade, and proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, contract training, CerTest,
   or exportable courses can satisfy identified requirements. MAJCOM-developed training
   to support this AFS must be identified for inclusion into the plan.

                                              16
   5.3. Unit Education and Training managers and supervisors must ensure each individual
   completes the mandatory training requirements (including MAJCOM supplemental
   requirements) for the upgrade training specified in this plan.

   5.4. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this
   plan. The lists of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

6. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority for the CFETP.
The AFCFM will initiate an annual review of this document to ensure currency and accuracy.
MAJCOM representatives and AETC personnel will identify and coordinate on the career
field training requirements. Using the list of courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate
training.




                                            17
                  Section B – Career Field Progression and Information
7. Specialty Descriptions. This information supplements what is presented in the Enlisted
Classification Directory.
CEM Code 3E800, Civil Engineer EOD Manager              AFSC 3E851, Journeyman
AFSC 3E891, Superintendent                              AFSC 3E831, Apprentice
AFSC 3E871, Craftsman                                   AFSC 3E811, Helper

   7.1. Specialty Summary. Performs, supervises and manages explosive ordnance
   disposal (EOD) operations to protect people, resources, and the environment from the
   effects of hazardous explosive ordnance and IEDs, including weapons of mass
   destruction (WMD). Detects, identifies, renders safe, recovers, and disposes of
   conventional, incendiary, chemical, biological, and nuclear ordnance delivered or placed
   by enemy forces and US and allied ordnance made dangerous by accident or other
   circumstance.. Renders safe and disposes of criminal/terrorist improvised explosive
   devices. Other duties include: supporting the United States Secret Service for the
   protection of the President, Vice President and other dignitaries; providing support to
   Federal, State and local law enforcement agencies concerning EOD matters when
   determined to be in the interest of public safety; supporting specialized Joint Service
   Task Force operations; instructing base and community members on ordnance
   recognition skills and improvised explosive device countermeasures; and providing the
   hazardous materials (HAZMAT) response capability for incidents involving explosive
   ordnance. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 143100.

   7.2. General EOD Duties and Responsibilities.

         7.2.1. Aircraft Launch and Recovery. Supports sortie generation by responding to
         airfield emergencies to render safe ordnance and aircraft hazards during in-flight
         and ground emergencies or crash situations.

         7.2.2. Force Protection. Eliminates or mitigates explosive hazards created by known
         or suspected criminal and terrorist devices. Neutralizes and disposes of improvised
         explosive devices. Uses x-ray equipment, robotics systems, and remotely initiated
         or controlled tools and techniques to interrogate and gain access to the device.
         Employs appropriate bomb suit, flak vests/helmet, CBRNE suits and other special
         personal protective equipment during response operations.

         7.2.3. Weapons of Mass Destruction. Provides full-spectrum response capability to
         nuclear, biological, chemical, radiological, incendiary, conventional explosive
         ordnance and IEDs.

         7.2.4. Nuclear Weapon Incident/Accident. Provides initial response force (IRF)
         support to nuclear weapon incidents and accidents.

         7.2.5. Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) Recovery Operations. Clears unexploded
         ordnance and hazards from airfields, forward operating locations, landing zones,
         and drop zones. Neutralizes hazards from explosive related incidents, which,
         because of unusual circumstances, present a threat to operations, installations,



                                          18
    personnel or materiel. Disposes of unserviceable, excess, or dangerous ordnance.
    Transports demolition explosives and equipment to authorized disposal areas.
    Fabricates explosive demolition charges, and disposes of hazardous explosives.
    Conducts and supervises render safe operations. Responds to emergencies with
    equipment and technical data. Conducts long range and close in reconnaissance,
    identifies and assesses ordnance condition, and advises commanders on
    recommended safe withdrawal distances. Excavates and renders safe
    unexploded ordnance, exploits unknown items for technical intelligence value, and
    uses monitoring and detecting equipment when ordnance may contain, or may be
    contaminated with, toxic or radioactive materials.

    7.2.6. Active Range Clearance. Clear active bombing and gunnery ranges in
    coordination with range management offices and environmental agencies. Clears
    explosive contaminated property. Surveys extent of explosive contamination on AF
    property, and on bombing and gunnery, research and development, and munitions
    test ranges. Prepares clearance plans and cost estimates for clearance operations.
    Establishes, operates, and maintains EOD explosive proficiency ranges.

    7.2.7. Mortuary Services. Perform evaluation and removal procedures of ordnance
    left on or embedded in casualties.

    7.2.8. Federal Agency and Civil Authority Support. Assist Federal and civil
    authorities with terrorist or other criminal acts, accidents, found explosive items,
    and other requests for support. Supports United States Secret Service, Department
    of State and other Federal agencies by providing protection to the President, Vice
    President, and other dignitaries.

    7.2.9. Base Populace Training. Provides training on ordnance hazards and
    recognition, mine awareness, terrorist bomb search procedures, and personnel
    protective measures.

    7.2.10. Deployment and Special Support Taskings. Deploys to support Major
    Combat Operations (MCO), special operations and military operations other than
    war. Plans EOD contingency operations. Develops operation plans, concepts of
    operation, and operating instructions on EOD employment. Develops explosive
    safety plans. Supports research and development testing of weapons, aircraft, and
    space systems. Supports specialized Joint Service task force operations.

    7.2.11. EOD Flight Sustainment Operations. Identifies requirements for and
    maintains tools, equipment, supplies, and technical data. Orders, inventories, stores,
    mobilizes, and maintains specialized tools, equipment, supplies, and EOD
    publications. Uses computers to support flight activities. Develops notional
    concepts, mission need statements, and operational requirements documents.
    Estimates for clearance operations. Establishes, operates, and maintains EOD
    explosive proficiency ranges.

7.3. Duties and Responsibilities for EOD Apprentice and Journeyman.

    7.3.1. Performs explosive ordnance disposal functions.

                                           19
7.3.1.1. Conducts area reconnaissance for detecting and identifying
unexploded ordnance.

7.3.1.2. Determines distances to which personnel and material must be
evacuated.

7.3.1.3. Photographs all unknown explosive ordnance for technical
intelligence and reporting requirements.

7.3.1.4. Removes earth and debris surrounding unexploded ordnance, using
mechanical tools, hand tools, and appropriate equipment.

7.3.1.5. Estimates depth of buried explosive ordnance by using probing
techniques or detection equipment.

7.3.1.6. Performs constructing, sinking, and timbering of shafts for access to
buried explosive ordnance and to protect personnel during recovery
operations.

7.3.1.7. Performs necessary rendering safe procedures, using special tools
and techniques, including remote controlled devices and shaped charges.

7.3.1.8. Removes safe explosive ordnance by using winches, pulleys, cables,
or cranes.

7.3.1.9. Operates and interprets radiation and other detecting instruments in
monitoring areas adjacent to unexploded ordnance suspected of containing
toxic or radioactive contamination.

7.3.1.10. Neutralizes, leak seals, packages, and disposes of chemical and
biological munitions.

7.3.1.11. Disposes of explosive ordnance rendered exceptionally hazardous
by damage or deterioration.

7.3.1.12. Disposes of unserviceable explosives by thermal treatment.

7.3.1.13. Notifies authorities when areas are free of danger.


7.3.1.14. Secures explosive ordnance and equipment to vehicles and plans
evacuation routes.

7.3.1.15. Prepares reports concerning explosive ordnance disposal activities.

7.3.1.16. Fabricates and uses explosive charges.


7.3.1.17. Neutralizes and disposes of improvised explosive devices.

                            20
     7.3.2. Performs as a specialized member of the Emergency Support Function

            7.3.2.1. Provides guidance and advice to the Incident Commander in
            detecting, monitoring, evaluating, and decontaminating radioactive,
            chemical, or biological hazards.

            7.3.2.2. Safes, removes, and disposes of explosives, explosive devices, and
            explosive ordnance rendered hazardous due to accident or incident to
            include ejection and catapult devices, squibs, explosive bolts, warheads,
            bombs, rockets, guided missiles, guns, and gun ammunition.

            7.3.2.3 Conducts explosive ordnance ancillary programs for base populace
            and other agencies.

     7.3.3. Performs related munitions and weapons functions.

            7.3.3.1. Performs functions relating to EOD munitions, weapons, or nuclear
            weapons activities as directed.

            7.3.3.2. Maintains explosive ordnance publications and administrative
            publications libraries pertaining to explosive ordnance functions.

            7.3.3.3. Inventories, stores, and maintains supplies, tools, and equipment
            relative to explosive ordnance disposal.

            7.3.3.4. Complies with environmental and safety regulations in performing
            EOD operations.


7.4. Duties and Responsibilities for EOD Craftsman.

     7.4.1. Advises on EOD related problems.


            7.4.1.1. Resolves EOD problems and provides other activities with advice
            and guidance on EOD matters.
            7.4.1.2. Organizes and conducts explosive ordnance disposal operations.

            7.4.1.3. Determines procedures to be used in detecting, identifying,
            rendering safe, recovering, or destroying explosive, incendiary, and nuclear
            ordnance.

     7.4.2. Performs EOD functions.

            7.4.2.1. Conducts area reconnaissance for detecting and identifying
            unexploded ordnance.

            7.4.2.2. Determines area from which personnel and materials must be
            evacuated, and ensures it is cleared before proceeding with disposal.

                                     21
       7.4.2.3. Estimates depth of buried unexploded ordnance and removes
       surrounding earth and debris.

       7.4.2.4. Plans and conducts constructing, sinking, and timbering of shafts for
       access to buried explosive ordnance and to protect personnel during
       recovery operations.

       7.4.2.5. Renders unexploded ordnance safe, using techniques including
       remote controlled devices and shaped charges.

       7.4.2.6. Plans and conducts neutralizing and disposing of improvised
       explosive devices.

       7.4.2.7. Calculates, fabricates, and uses explosives charges.

       7.4.2.8. Disposes of unserviceable explosive ordnance by thermal treatment.

       7.4.2.9. Plans and directs removing safe explosive ordnance, and ensures
       areas adjacent to unexploded ordnance suspected of containing toxic or
       radioactive contamination are properly monitored.

       7.4.2.10. Coordinates EOD activities and movements with other interested
       military and civilian agencies.

       7.4.2.11. Prepares reports concerning EOD activities.

7.4.3. Performs as a specialized member of the Base Emergency Response Force.

       7.4.3.1. Provides guidance and advice to the Incident Commander on,
       monitoring, evaluating, and decontaminating radioactive, chemical, or
       biological hazards.

       7.4.3.2. Plans, organizes, directs, and assists in safing, removing, and
       disposing of explosives, explosive devices, and explosive ordnance rendered
       hazardous due to accident or incident to include ejection and catapult
       devices, squibs, explosive bolts, warheads, bombs, rockets, guided missiles,
       guns, and gun ammunition.

       7.4.3.3. Plans, establishes, and conducts explosive ordnance ancillary
       programs for disaster preparedness personnel and other agencies.

7.4.4. Supervises related munitions and weapons functions.

       7.4.4.1. Ensures functions relating to explosive ordnance disposal, weapons,
       and nuclear weapons activities are coordinated and performed as directed.




                                   22
           7.4.4.2. Ensures the availability of explosive ordnance disposal publications
           and administrative publication libraries pertaining to explosive ordnance
           functions.

           7.4.4.3. Establishes procedures and standards for the availability of supplies,
           tools, and equipment pertaining to explosive ordnance disposal operations.

           7.4.4.4. Monitors and determines the proper procedures for turn-in or
           disposal of unserviceable supplies, tools, and equipment.

           7.4.4.5. Complies with environmental and safety regulations in performing
           EOD operations.


7.5. Duties and Responsibilities EOD Superintendent/Civil Engineer EOD Manager.

    7.5.1. Plans and organizes EOD activities.


           7.5.1.1 Obtains and controls the resources necessary to conduct EOD
           operations.
           7.5.1.2. Coordinates with base, local, and federal agencies in matters
           concerning EOD operations.

           7.5.1.3. Coordinates deployment taskings through MAJCOM and unit
           deployment manager.

    7.5.2. Directs EOD activities.

            7.5.2.1. Checks methods and techniques employed in detecting, identifying,
           rendering safe, recovering, and destroying explosive ordnance.

           7.5.2.2. Ensures compliance with environmental and safety regulations in
           performing EOD operations.

           7.5.2.3. Drafts and prepares correspondence and reports relating to EOD
           functions.

           7.5.2.4. Supervises preparing, maintaining, and disposing of records
           concerning EOD activities.

    7.5.3. Inspects and evaluates EOD activities.

           7.5.3.1. Inspects EOD activities to ensure compliance with policies,
           regulations, and technical publications.

           7.5.3.2. Interprets inspection findings, implements corrective actions, and
           conducts follow-up inspections.


                                     23
         7.5.4. Performs EOD functions.

                7.5.4.1. Interprets publications and resolves problems encountered,
                pertaining to detecting, identifying, rendering safe, recovering, transporting,
                and disposing of explosive, incendiary, chemical, biological, and nuclear
                ordnance.

                7.5.4.2. Plans, organizes, directs, and assists in safing, removing, and
                disposing of explosives and explosive ordnance rendered hazardous as a
                result of crashed or disabled aircraft and missiles to include ejection and
                catapult devices, squibs, explosive bolts, warheads, bombs, rockets, guided
                missiles, guns, and gun ammunition.

                7.5.4.3. Provides guidance and assistance detecting, monitoring, evaluating,
                and decontaminating radioactive, chemical, or biological hazards.

                7.5.4.4. Supervises, demonstrates, and assists in using special tools,
                equipment, and techniques pertaining to EOD.

                7.5.4.5. Directs explosive ordnance ancillary programs.

8. Skill and Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from
the apprentice to the superintendent level play an important role in the Air Force's
ability to accomplish its mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training
must do his or her part to plan, manage, and conduct an effective training program.
The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will ensure each individual receives
viable training at appropriate points in their career.

   8.1. Apprentice (3-Level).

        8.1.1. Upon completion of initial skills training, a trainee will work with a trainer to
        enhance their knowledge and skills to progress to the 5-level.

        8.1.2. Complete CE Common Core Distance Learning product prior to ordering
        CDCs.

        8.1.3. Utilize the Career Development Course (CDC), Air Force Qualification
        Training Packages (AFQTPs) and other exportable courses for subject and task
        fundamentals in the career field. Successfully complete applicable CerTests.

        8.1.4. Once trained and task certified, a trainee may perform the task unsupervised.

        8.1.5. After all upgrade training requirements are completed, supervisors and Unit
        Education and Training Managers (UETM) coordinate upgrade procedures.

        NOTE: All trainees are automatically enrolled in the Community College of the Air
        Force (CCAF) when awarded their primary AFSC.




                                          24
8.2. Journeyman (5-Level).

    8.2.1. 5-levels may be assigned job positions such as team leader, shift supervisor,
    and task trainer.

    8.2.2. Enter into continuation training to broaden experience base and to advance to
    the 7-level.

    8.2.3. Must complete, as a minimum, twelve months OJT before award of the 5-level
    (nine months for re-trainees that were awarded a 5-level in a previous AFSC).

    8.2.4. Attend the Airman Leadership School (ALS) after serving 48 months in the
    Air Force or selection to rank of SSgt (active duty only). Either the in-residence or
    correspondence course is required for Air National Guard/Air Force Reserve
    Command (ANG/AFRC) personnel.

    8.2.5. Use CDCs and other reference material to prepare for Weighted Airman
    Performance Systems (WAPS) testing.

    8.2.6. Continue pursuing a Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) degree.

    8.2.7. Completion of 100% core/diamond task training is prerequisite to award of the
    5-level.

    8.2.8. After all upgrade training requirements are completed; supervisors and
    UETMs coordinate upgrade procedures.
    8.2.9. Completion of Nuclear CBT is prerequisite to award of 5-level.

8.3. Craftsman (7-Level).


    8.3.1. A craftsman can expect to fill various supervisory and management positions
    such as shift leader, team chief, supervisor, or task certifier.

    8.3.2. Completion of CE Common Core 7-level Distance Learning Course, 100%
    core/diamond task training, and graduation from the resident 7-level Craftsman
    Course are prerequisites for award of the 7-level.

    8.3.3. Must complete, as a minimum, twelve months OJT before award of the 7-level
    (six months for re-trainees that were awarded a 7-level in a previous AFSC).

    8.3.4. 7-levels should take continuation training courses or obtain additional
    knowledge on management of resources and personnel.

    8.3.5. Continue academic education through CCAF and higher degree programs is
    encouraged.




                                       25
        8.3.6. Attend the Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA) after promotion to
        TSgt (active duty only). Either the in-residence or correspondence course is required
        for Air National Guard/Air Force Reserve Command (ANG/AFRC) personnel.

        8.3.7. After all upgrade training requirements are completed; supervisors and
        UETMs coordinate upgrade procedures.

   8.4. Superintendent. (9-Level)

        8.4.1. A 9-level can be expected to fill positions such as flight chief, zone
        superintendents, and various staff positions.

        8.4.2. Must be a SMSgt for award of the 9-skill level.

        8.4.3. Completion of Civil Engineer Superintendent Course (AFIT WMGT 570) is
        MANDATORY for all Active Duty and Air Force Reserve SMSgt’s and is
        HIGHLY encouraged for Air National Guard members but it is not mandatory for
        award of the 9-skill level.

        8.4.4. Should pursue increased knowledge of budget, manpower, resources, and
        personnel management.

        8.4.5. After completion of CCAF, recommend the pursuit of additional higher
        education and completion of courses outside of their career AFS.

        8.4.6. Will attend the Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy (SNCOA) after
        selection for promotion to MSgt (active duty only). Either the in-residence or
        correspondence course is required for Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard
        (ANG).

   8.5. Civil Engineer EOD Manager (CEM).

        8.5.1. CEMs work in a variety of similar jobs and functional areas where general
        managerial and supervisory abilities can be most effectively used and challenged.

        8.5.2. Must be selected for CMSgt and possess qualifications as a 3E890.

        8.5.3. Resident graduation of the USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA) is a
        prerequisite for CMSgt sew-on (active duty only). In-residence or correspondence
        course required for ANG/AFRC personnel.

        8.5.4. Completion of the Chief Leadership Course is mandatory.

9. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Explosive Ordnance Disposal
career field. The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet the training
requirements. The strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce duplication of training
and eliminate a disjointed approach to training. The following training decisions were made
by members of the 24 -28 March 2008 Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) held at
Eglin AFB Florida:
                                          26
   9.1. Continue to pursue development of multimedia training products for the EOD career
   field using Air Force Institute of Technology, AFCESA Learning Management System
   and other electronic training venues and resources.

   9.2. Develop a mission capable electronic training record program to allow management
   of all aspects of EOD training from upgrade through annual training management.

   9.3. Initial Skills Training. The initial skill course was reviewed for content. Additions,
   deletions, and modifications were made to the course. Wartime training tasks were
   identified and validated.

   9.4. 5-Level Upgrade Training Requirements. Existing CDCs were reviewed and
   updated to ensure only current material remained and new technology information was
   added.

   9.5. 7-Level Upgrade Training Requirements. 7-level training requirements were
   reviewed and validated.

   9.6. Proficiency Training. Any additional career field knowledge and skill requirements
   that were not taught through initial skills or upgrade training are assigned as continuation
   training. The purpose of continuation training is to ensure EOD airman remain highly
   qualified and technically proficient on EOD skills at the appropriate point in their careers.
   The EOD Standard Training Package establishes minimum training requirements to
   maintain EOD proficiency. EOD MAJCOMs may add additional training requirements
   (mandatory or optional) to fulfill their mission needs. EOD proficiency requirements and
   the EOD Standard Training Package was reviewed and updated to meet current career
   field requirements.

   9.7. Supplemental Training. Subject Matter Experts (SME) and the Training
   Committee reviewed supplemental training courses for technical accuracy and identified
   training that was no longer required. They revalidated the remaining courses as
   necessary to fully support career progression in the AFS.

   9.8. CerTest. Originally, the CerTest program was developed to support transition
   training and meet DoD certification requirements. Now, it is also the singular platform to
   launch AFQTP tests and supplement the evaluation of OJT. CerTest format is not
   currently used for EOD training.

10. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon
award of primary AFSC. CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate of Applied
Sciences Degree. In addition to its associate degree program, CCAF offers the following:

     10.1. Occupational Instructor Certification. The instructor must be a full-time
     instructor teaching a CCAF course at an affiliated school at the time of nomination.
     Additionally, instructors should: Hold an associate or higher degree from a degree-
     granting institution that is accredited in accordance with CCAF requirements.
     Complete a Teaching Internship of 12 semester hours. Complete an instructor training
     course of at least 3 semester hours. Have 2 years teaching experience as a CCAF
     instructor from the date assigned instructor duties. Hold the journeyman (5-skill level)

                                         27
    or higher (or fully qualified equivalent) in an AFS and be recommended for
    certification by the affiliate school commander, commandant, or PME flight chief.

    10.2. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill
    certification is awarded for the primary occupational specialty. The college uses a
    competency based assessment process for trade skill certification at one of four
    proficiency levels: Apprentice, Journeyman, Craftsman (Supervisor), or Master
    Craftsman (Manager). All are transcribed on the CCAF transcript.

11. The Explosive Ordnance Disposal Associates Degree (4VRC) applies to the 3E8X1
AFSC.

    11.1. Degree requirements: Prior to completing a CCAF degree, the individual must
    be awarded a 5-level and the following requirements must be met: Leadership,
    management and military studies; physical education; general education; and program
    elective requirements are identical for all programs. A student needs to hold the
    journeyman (5) level in the appropriate AFSC at the time of program completion.
    Attaining the journeyman level is waived for a student in the occupational specialties
    that do not have journeyman levels. A student must complete all degree requirements
    before separating, retiring, or becoming a commissioned officer. Degree programs
    consist of a minimum of 64 semester hours with requirements typically as follows:

    Course                                                                                    Semester Hours

    Technical Education ................................................................................ 24

    Leadership, Management, and Military Studies ..................................... 6

    Physical Education .................................................................................... 4

    General Education ................................................................................... 15
       Oral Communication ....................................................... 3
       Written Communication .............................................. 3
       Mathematics ......................................................................... 3
       Social Science .................................................................. 3
       Humanities .............................................................. 3

    Program Elective ................................................................................... 15
       Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and
       Military Studies; or General Education

    Total ........................................................................................................ 64

    11.2. Technical Education Requirement (24 semester hours). A minimum of 12
    semester hours of Technical Core subjects and courses must be applied and the
    remaining semester hours applied from Technical Core or Technical Elective subjects
    and courses.




                                                      28
Technical Core Requirements                            Maximum Semester Hours

Algebra-Based Physics                                                 8
CCAF Internship                                                      18
Electricity/Electronics                                               9
Explosive Ordnance Disposal                                          24
General Chemistry                                                     4
Hazardous Materials                                                   6

Technical Electives                                    Maximum Semester Hours
Accident Prevention                                              3
Basic Photography (Camera/Video Operations)                      3
Blueprint Reading/Schematic Diagrams                             3
Computer Science                                                 6
Emergency Medicine                                               3
Heavy Equipment Operation                                        3
Industrial Safety                                                3
Industrial X-ray/Non-Destructive Inspection                      3
Inventory Management                                             3
Investigative Techniques                                         3
Nuclear Science                                                  4
Map and Compass Reading                                          3
Principles of Marksmanship                                       3
Statistics                                                       3
Technical Mathematics (College Algebra or higher)                3
Technical Writing                                                3

11.3. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours):
Professional military education, civilian management courses accepted in transfer
and/or by testing credit.

11.4. Physical Education (4 semester hours). This requirement is satisfied by
completion of Basic Military Training.

11.5. General Education (15 semester hours). Applicable courses must meet the
criteria for application of courses to the general education requirements (GER) and be
in agreement with the definitions of applicable General Education subject/courses as
provided in the CCAF General Catalog.




                                    29
General Education Subjects/Courses                                                                  Semester Hours

Oral Communication ................................................................................................. 3
  Speech
Written Communication .............................................................................................3
  English Composition
Mathematics ...................................................................................................... 3
  Must be an intermediate algebra or a college-level mathematics course
  that satisfies the delivering institution's mathematics
  requirement for graduation. If an acceptable mathematics
  course is applied as a technical or program elective, a natural
  science course may be substituted for mathematics.
Social Science......................................................................................................... 3
  Anthropology, archaeology, economics, geography, government,
  history, political science, psychology, and sociology
Humanities......................................................................................................... 3
   Fine arts (criticism, appreciation, historical significance), foreign language,
   literature, philosophy, and religion.

11.6. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable technical
education, Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (LMMS), or general
education requirements; Natural science courses meeting the general education
requirement application criteria; Foreign language credit earned at Defense Language
Institute or through Defense Language Proficiency Test; Maximum of six semester
hours of CCAF degree-applicable technical course credit otherwise not applicable to this
program may be applied. See the CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the
Associates of Applied Sciences degree for this specialty.

11.7. Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is encouraged for all.
Individuals desiring to become an Air Education and Training Command Instructor
should actively pursue an Associates Degree. A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain
accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.




                                                              30
12. Career Field Path. The following chart depicts this specialty’s career field path.


                      Explosive Ordnance Disposal Enlisted
                                Career Pyramid


                                                            23.58 yrs
                                                            Average
                               Chief Enlisted
                               Manager                                             HQ, FOA, & Other

                                                                   21.28 yrs                 Master Badge
                                                                   Average
                                                9
                    Superintendent           LEVEL

                                                                         17.84 yrs
                                                                         Average
                                          7 LEVEL

                                                     Worker                    10.64 yrs
                                                                               Average
                                                    Supervisor
 Senior Badge             7 LEVEL

                                        CRAFTSMAN
                                         TECH SCHOOL

                                             5 LEVEL
                                                                                           4.34 yrs
                                                                                           Average
                                                 Section Worker
                                                Worker/Supervisor
                                       JOURNEYMAN                                              36 months
                                CDC/OJT/AFQTP (12 months OJT)
 Basic Badge                                 3 LEVEL

                                                                                                      16 months
                                                                 Section Worker
   Initial Skills                        APPRENTICE
     Training
                                                                        Trainee/Worker
                                                                                                            6 months


                      TECH SCHOOL                                                  Student

                    BASIC MILITARY TRAINING                                                Student




                                        31
12.1. Enlisted Career Path.
     3E8X1 EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
                               PATH
                                            Education And Training                                                                                Average Sew-On Time
                                                Requirements                                                                                        And Comments
  Basic Military Training School
  Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level) ................................Mandatory
  Completion of CE Common Core 3-level CBT......................Mandatory                                                                       Amn ....................... 6 months

  Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level)                                                                                                         A1C .................... 16 months
  Minimum 12 months OJT training (9 months for retrainees)
  Completion of 5-Level CDCs ................................................................. Mandatory
  Completion of all core and duty level requirements ......................Mandatory                                                            SrA ........................... 3 years
  Specific AFQTPs for duties at assigned location ...........................Mandatory                                                          Earliest .................. 28 months
  Completion of Nuclear CBT ................................................................... Mandatory                                       (Below-The Zone) 22 months
  Helicopter Ropes and Suspension Techniques (HRST) ...............Mandatory
  Tactical Movement ..............................................................................Mandatory
  Tactical Rifleman Qualification Course............................................Mandatory
  Evasion and Conduct after Capture (ECAC) ...................................Mandatory
  Supplemental training courses, determined by MAJCOM ............. Optional                                                                    HYT ....................... 10 years
  Airman Leadership School (ALS)                                                                                                                TRAINER: Must meet trainer
  Attendance is limited to SSgt selectees or those attaining 48 months                                                                           eligibility requirements set
  Total Active Federal Military Service (TAFMS) and who have not been                                                                                         IAW
  selected for promotion to SSgt. Completion is mandatory before                                                                                AFI 36-2201
  assuming the rank of SSgt. ANG/AFRC may complete by
  correspondence course ........................................................................Mandatory
  Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)                                                                                                          SSgt ..........................4.34 years
  Minimum rank of SSgt.................................................................................... Mandatory                            Earliest ......................... 3 years
  12 months OJT training (6 months for retrainees) ......................... Mandatory                                                          HYT ....................... 20 years
  Completion of CE Common Core 7-level CBT.............................. Mandatory
  Attendance at formal 7-level school ..................................................Mandatory                                               TSgt .....................10.64 years
  Must be a 7-level to sew on TSgt............................................................Mandatory                                         Earliest ......................... 5 years
  Squad Tactical Movement ............................................................................ Mandatory                                HYT ....................... 22 years
  Tactical Rifleman Qualification Course.............................................Mandatory
  Supplemental training courses as determined by MAJCOM.......Optional                                                                            CERTIFIER: Must meet
                                                                                                                                                       trainer eligibility
                                                                                                                                                    requirements set IAW
                                                                                                                                                          AFI 36-2201
  Non-Commissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)                                                                                                       MSgt ................. 17.84 years
  Attendance is limited to TSgts. Completion is mandatory before                                                                                Earliest ........................ 8 years
  assuming the rank of MSgt. ANG/AFRC may attend in-residence as SSgt                                                                           HYT ....................... 24 years
  or TSgt or complete correspondence
  course ................................................................................... .Mandatory
  USAF Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy (SNCOA)                                                                                           SMSgt .................. 21.28 years
  MSgts - SMSgts. Completion is mandatory before assuming the rank of                                                                           Earliest .....................11 years
  SMSgt ................................................................................... .Mandatory                                          HYT ....................... 26 years

  ANG/AFRC may complete by correspondence course. ANG/AFRC
  MSgts may attend in-residence............................................................... Mandatory                                        CMSgt ................. 23.58 years
                                                                                                                                                Earliest .....................14 years
  Upgrade To Superintendent (9-Skill Level)                                                                                                     HYT ....................... 30 years
  Awarded upon sew on of SMSgt ................................................ .Mandatory

  SMSgts attend AFIT WMGT 570 Civil Engineer Superintendent
  Course .......................................................................................................................... Mandatory


                                                                                      32
12.2. The Civil Engineer Badge is the occupational badge for all 3E AFSs'. The
Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) badge is a joint service badge awarded at the
completion of Tech School with the CE badge. The criteria for subsequent awards
(senior and master) are based on qualifications and leadership in EOD tasks in order to
more closely align with sister service award criteria and maintain joint service parity.
Further information on the wearing of the badge can be located in AFI 36-2903.

       12.2.1. Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) and Emergency Management (EM)
       will wear their specific duty badges in addition to the CE Craftsmen Badge. If
       filling an active EOD billet, the EOD badge takes precedence over the CE
       Craftsman badge. Use the following criteria for the award of the basic, senior
       and master EOD duty badges for enlisted and officer personnel:

               12.2.1.1. Award of basic EOD badge is achieved with successful
               graduation of EOD Technical School, Det 3, 366 TRS, Eglin Air Force
               Base, Florida.

               12.2.1.2. Award of the senior EOD badge is achieved four years from
               award of the basic EOD badge filling an active EOD billet, certified as a
               team leader in the CFETP and upon certification letter signed by EOD
               flight chief and approved by commander.

               12.2.1.3. Award of the master EOD badge is achieved after eight years
               from award of the basic EOD Badge filling an active EOD billet, met all
               requirements for the senior EOD badge, and upon certification by EOD
               flight chief and approved by commander.

               12.2.1.3. Certification letter will be signed by the immediate supervisor.




                                     33
                                     Master
Worn as a master sergeant or above with 5 years in the specialty from award of the 7-
                                    skill level




            Basic                                                Senior
Worn upon completion of technical                    Worn after award of the 7-skill
            school                                                level


      12.2.1 CE Badge Heraldry. The gear wheel and compass have historically
      been used to represent the engineering profession, in both the military and
      civilian sector. The gear represents the essence of engineering: applying
      scientific principles and technology to practical ends. To Air Force engineers,
      the gear symbolizes an element (representing the built environment) that
      meshes with other environments (weapon systems and trained personnel) to
      enable the Air Force to perform its mission. The compass is a precision tool
      historically used by engineers in designing and constructing facilities and
      equipment. The gear and compass together symbolize all the diverse specialties
      within Air Force Civil Engineer. Finally, the wings help to portray the
      fundamental linkage between the engineering and aviation components; and
      that the built environment is the foundation supporting Air Force mission and
      people.

      12.2.2. Basic Badge. The basic badge is awarded upon successful completion
      of the apprentice course.

      12.2.3. Senior Badge. The senior badge adds a star to the top of the badge.
      Wear the senior badge after award of the 7-skill level.

      12.2.4. Master Badge. The master badge adds a wreath around the star. The
      Master Badge is awarded to master sergeant or above with 5 years in the
      specialty from award of the 7-skill level.



                                    34
   12.3. EOD Occupational Badge. The EOD badge reflects the achievements and
   laurels gained in eliminating or minimizing accident potentials of hazardous ordnance,
   through the ingenuity and devotion to duty of our fellow EOD professionals. It also
   serves as a living memorial of our fellow EOD professionals who gave their lives while
   performing EOD duties. Eligibility criteria for award and wear of AF occupational
   badges can be found in AFI 3 6-2923, Aeronautical, Duty, and Occupational Badges.




                                       Master
  Worn as a master sergeant or above with 5 years in the specialty from award of the 7-
                                      skill level




                 Basic                                              Senior
  Worn upon completion of technical                   Worn after award of the 7-skill level
                school
                                  EOD Badge Heraldry
The wreath is symbolic of the achievements and laurels gained in minimizing accident
potentials, through the ingenuity and devotion to duty of its members. It is in the
memory of those EOD professionals who gave their lives while performing EOD duties.
The bomb, copied from the design of the World War II, Bomb Disposal Badge,
represents the historic and major objectives of the EOD attack, the unexploded bomb.
The three fins represent the major areas of nuclear, conventional and
chemical/biological interest. The lightning bolts symbolize the potential destructive
power of the bomb and the courage and professionalism of EOD personnel in their
endeavors to reduce hazards as well as to render safe explosive ordnance harmless. The
shield represents the EOD mission-prevent a detonation and protect the surrounding
area and property to the utmost.




                                       35
                      Section C – Skill-Level Training Requirements

 13. Purpose The various skill levels in the career field are defined in terms of tasks and
knowledge requirements for the Explosive Ordnance Disposal career ladder. They are stated
in broad, general terms and establish the standards of performance. An all-encompassing
core task list has been developed for this specialty because of the diversity of the missions
supported and the equipment installed to meet mission requirements. Core tasks, knowledge
items, and skill requirements for this specialty are identified in the STS. Completion of the
mandatory 3-level awarding course, the mandatory completion of CDCs, the mandatory
completion of applicable AFQTPs and CerTests, and the mandatory 7-level Craftsman
course, comprise Air Force requirements.
14. Specialty Qualification

   14.1. Apprentice (3–Level) Training Requirements.

         14.1.1 Specialty Qualification


                   14.1.1.1. Knowledge.
                   Completion of the basic EOD Apprentice course pipeline satisfies
                   this mandatory requirement. (J3AQR3E831 01AA and
                   JBABN3E831 00NA.

                   14.1.1.2. Education. Completion of High School or GED is
                   mandatory for entry into this AFS. Mechanics, physics or basic
                   electricity are desirable.

                  14.1.1.3. Training. EOD trainees attend:


                              14.1.1.3.1. EOD Preliminary Course (J3AQR3E831 01AA) at
                              Sheppard AFB, Texas


                              14.1.1.3.2 NAVSCOLEOD Qualification course
                                         (JBABN3E831 00NA) at Eglin AFB,
                                         FL.

                              14.1.1.3.3. Complete the 3-Level Common Core CBT.

                   14.1.1.4. Experience. N/A
                   14.1.1.5. Other.
                              14.1.1.5.1. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-
                              123, Medical Examinations and Standards, is
                              mandatory for entry into the 3E8XX AFS.




                                       36
                        14.1.1.5.2. No record of emotional instability and
                        normal depth perception as defined in AFI 48-123,
                        Medical Examinations and Standards, is mandatory for
                        entry, award and retention in the 3E8XX AFS.

                        14.1.1.5.3. Specialty requires daily access to classified material
                        up to Secret Restricted Data and Special Access to Critical
                        Nuclear Weapons Design Information. Some positions require
                        special access to sensitive compartmental information.
                        Because of this, for award and retention of AFSC 3E8XX,
                        completion of a Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI)
                        according to AFI 3 1-501, Personnel Security Program
                        Management, is required. AFSC is listed on the mandatory
                        SSBI listing.

                        14.1.1.5.4. No Record of Claustrophobia (fear of
                        confined spaces).

                        14.1.1.5.5 Qualification to operate government vehicles
                        according to AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations.

     14.1.2. Training Sources and Resources

               14.1.2.1. Formal training is accomplished through US Naval
              Explosive Ordnance Disposal School (JBABN3E831 00NC) at
              Eglin AFB, Florida.

               14.1.2.2. The COL (Part II, Section B of this CFETP) identifies
              all the knowledge and tasks with their respective standards.

               14.1.2.3. When applicable, AFQTPs and associated CerTests are
              mandatory for use during UGT/QT on all core tasks, critical tasks,
              and diamond ( ) tasks.
                             




     14.1.3. Implementation.
               14.1.3.1. The 3-skill level is awarded upon graduating the
               apprentice pipeline, courses J3AQR3E831 01AA (Sheppard
               AFB, TX) and JBABN3E831 00NC (Eglin AFB FL) and
               submission by the Unit Training Manager at member’s
               first unit of assignment.

14.2. Journeyman (5–Level) Training Requirements.

     14.2.1. Specialty Qualification. Completion of the CE Common Core 3-level CBT.
     All 3-level qualifications apply to 5-level requirements.




                                     37
      14.2.1.1. Knowledge.

                14.2.1.1.1. Composition and characteristic of United States and
                known foreign explosive, incendiary, chemical, biological and
                nuclear munitions.

                14.2.1.1.2. Principles of basic electricity.

                14.2.1.1.3. Handling, use and disposal of hazardous wastes and
                materials.

      14.2.1.2. Education. N/A

      14.2.1.3. Training.

                14.2.1.3.1. Completion of 3E851 CDCs is mandatory.

                14.2.1.3.2. Certification of all 5-level core tasks identified with a
                single asterisk (*) in the core task column of the STS is mandatory.

                14.2.1.3.3. Certification of duty position requirements identified by
                the supervisor is mandatory.

      14.2.1.4. Experience.

                14.2.1.4.1. Qualification in and possession of 3-skill level.

                14.2.1.4.2. Minimum 12 months on-the-job training (9 months for
                re-trainees) before award of 5- skill level.

                14.2.1.4.3. Experience is mandatory in performing functions such
                as rendering safe, removing and destroying hazardous or
                unserviceable United States explosive ordnance.

                14.2.1.4.4. Experience is desirable in performing functions such as
                rendering safe, removing and destroying hazardous or
                unserviceable foreign munitions; and in decontamination activities.

      14.2.1.5. Other. N/A

14.2.2. Training Sources and Resources.

      14.2.2.1 CDC 3E851, Explosive Ordnance Disposal Journeyman

       14.2.2.2 The STS (Part II, Section A of the CFETP) identifies all core tasks
      required for qualification in the individual’s duty position.




                                   38
            14.2.2.3. Qualified trainers provide upgrade and qualification training for
            duty positions, managed programs, and/or equipment to be used.

     14.2.3. Implementation. Entry into 5-level upgrade training is initiated after the
     individual has completed the 3-level school and completion of CE Common Core 3-
     level CBT. ( ) been assigned to their first duty station. Qualification training is
     initiated any time individuals are assigned duties they are not certified to perform.
     AFQTPs are used concurrently to obtain necessary duty position qualifications.

14.3. Craftsman (7-Level) Training Requirements.

     14.3.1. Specialty Qualification. All 5-level qualifications apply to 7-level
     requirements.

            14.3.1.1. Knowledge.

                      14.3.1.1.1. Composition and characteristic of United States and
                      known foreign explosive, incendiary, chemical, biological and
                      nuclear munitions.

                      14.3.1.1.2. Principles of basic electricity.

                      14.3.1.1.3. Handling, use and disposal of hazardous wastes and
                      materials.

            14.3.1.2. Education.

                      14.3.1.2.1. Completion of 7-level Common Core CBT.

                      14.3.1.2.2. To assume the grade of SSgt, individuals must
                      successfully complete the in-resident ALS (active duty only).

                      14.3.1.3.3. To assume the grade of MSgt, individuals must
                      successfully complete the in-resident NCO Academy (active duty
                      only).

                      14.3.1.3.4. For ANG/AFRC, completion of AFIADL courses
                      00001 (ALS) and 00009 (NCO Academy) satisfy the requirements.

            14.3.1.3. Training.

                      14.3.1.3.1. Completion of in-residence 7-level Craftsman course
                      (JCACP3E871 00AA).

                      14.3.1.3.2. Certification of all 5- and 7-skill level core tasks
                      identified with an asterisk (*) in the 5- and 7-level core columns of
                      the STS is mandatory.




                                       39
                      14.3.1.3.3. Completion of all AFQTPs for assigned core and
                      critical tasks.

                      14.3.1.3.4. Certification of duty position requirements identified by
                      the supervisor is mandatory.

            14.3.1.4. Experience.

                      14.3.1.4.1. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3E851.

                      14.3.1.4.2. Experience is mandatory supervising functions such as
                      rendering safe, removing, and/or destroying dangerous or
                      unserviceable United States explosive ordnance.

                      14.3.1.4.3. Experience is desirable in supervising functions such as
                      rendering safe, removing and/or destroying dangerous or
                      unserviceable foreign explosive ordnance and in decontaminating
                      activities.

            14.3.1.5. Other. N/A

     14.3.2. Training Sources and Resources.

              14.3.2.1. 3E871 7-level Craftsman course (JCACP3E871 00AA)

              14.3.2.2. NCOA Course 00009 (paper-based correspondence)


              14.3.2.3. The STS (Part II, Section A of this CFETP) identifies all core
              tasks required for qualification in the individual’s duty position.
              14.3.2.3. Qualified trainers provide upgrade and qualification training for
              duty positions, managed programs, and/or equipment to be used.

     14.3.3. Implementation. Entry into 7-level training is initiated when an individual
     is selected for SSgt and has fulfilled all 5-level requirements. Qualification training
     is initiated any time an individual is assigned duties that they are not qualified to
     perform. AFQTPs are used concurrently to obtain necessary duty position
     qualifications.

14.4. Superintendent (9–Level) Training Requirements.

      14.4.1. Specialty Qualification.


              14.4.1.1. Knowledge.
                        14.4.4.1.1.1. Composition and characteristic of United States
                        and known foreign explosive, incendiary, chemical, biological
                        and nuclear munitions.
                        14.4.4.1.1.2. Principles of basic electricity

                                      40
                14.4.4.1.1.3. Handling, use and disposal of hazardous wastes
                and materials.

                14.4.4.1.1.4. Knowledge of Air Force training programs is
                mandatory

       14.4.1.2. Education.

                  14.4.1.2.1. Completion of in-residence SNCOA is mandatory
                 prior to award of 9-skill level (active duty only).

                  14.4.1.2.2. ANG/AFRC must complete course 00012
                 (computer-based CD-ROM) to satisfy the Senior NCO
                 Academy requirement) or Course 14E (web based)

                  14.4.1.2.3. Completion of AFIT WMGT Civil Engineer
                 Superintendent Course is recommended prior to award of 9-skill
                 level.

       14.4.1.3. Training. Completion of duty position training requirements
       and Certification of all 5- and 7-skill level core tasks identified with an
       asterisk (*) in the 5- and 7-level core columns of the STS is mandatory.

       14.4.1.4. Experience.

                 14.4.1.4.1. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3E871 is
                 mandatory.

                  14.4.1.4.2. Minimum rank of SMSgt with experience directing
                 functions such as detecting, identifying, rendering safe,
                 recovering or destroying explosive, incendiary or nuclear
                 ordnance.

       14.4.1.5. Other. N/A

14.4.2. Training Sources and Resources.

       14.4.2.1. In-residence SNCOA located at Maxwell AFB - Gunter Annex
       AL.

       14.4.2.2. Senior NCO Academy Course 00012 (exportable computer based
       CD-ROM) or Course 14E (web based).

       14.4.2.3. Civil Engineer Superintendent Course, WMGT570, conducted at
       Air Force Institute of Technology, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH.
       (recommended).

       14.4.2.4. AFIT WMGT 433 EOD Flight Commanders/Chiefs Course
       (recommended).

                                  41
      14.4.3. Implementation. Entry into 9-level training is initiated when an
      individual assumes the rank of SMSgt and is a fully qualified 7-Level.
      Qualification training is initiated any time an individual is assigned duties
      they are not certified to perform.

14.5. Civil Engineer EOD Manager.

         14.5.1. Specialty Qualification.

         14.5.1.1. Knowledge.


                       14.5.1.1.1 Managing and directing personnel resource
                       activities.

                       14.5.1.1.2 Interpreting and enforcing policy and applicable
                       directives.

                       14.5.1.1.3 Establishing control procedures to meet work
                       goals and standards.

                       14.5.1.1.4 Recommending or initiating actions to improve
                       operational efficiency.

                       14.5.1.1.5 Planning and programming work commitments
                       and schedules.

                       14.5.1.1.6 Developing plans regarding EOD operations and
                       support activities.

             14.5.1.2. Education. Must be a resident graduate of Senior NCO
             Academy (active duty only). Completion of the Chief Leadership
             Course is mandatory.

             14.5.1.3. Training. N/A

             14.5.1.4. Experience. Possess qualifications in feeder specialty
             (3E891) prior to award of Civil Engineer EOD Manager code 3E800.
             Managerial ability to plan, direct, coordinates, implement, and
             control a wide range of work activity.

             14.5.1.5. Other. N/A

     14.5.2. Training Sources and Resources.

              14.5.2.1. Chief Leadership Course conducted at Maxwell AFB, AL




                                      42
14.5.3. Implementation. Entry into Civil Engineer EOD Manager code
3E800 is initiated when an individual is selected for CMSgt and possesses
qualifications in a feeder specialty 3E89 1.




                              43
                             Section D – Resource Constraints

15. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints, which preclude optimal
and desired training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost
and manpower. Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement
describing what effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this
section are actions required, office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates.
Resource constraints will be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

  15.1. Apprentice (3-Level) Training.
 Equipment Constraints
 Time/Manpower/Student Man-years       When training facility is constructed,
 Constraints                           instructors and student man years will be
                                       required
 Facilities Constraints                Require a facility to conduct training on back-
                                       slashed items on STS
 Funding Constraints
 Exportable Training
 Proficiency Training
 Action Required                       Conduct an approved Explosive Site Safety
                                       Survey and construct a facility to conduct
                                       hands on training.
 OPR/Target Completion Date.           To be determined



   15.2. Journeyman (5-Level) Training. AFQTP development for all core tasks
  Constraints                          None
  OPR                                  N/A

   15.3. Craftsman (7-Level) Training. AFQTP development for all core tasks
  Constraints                           None
  OPR                                   N/A

    15.4. Superintendent (7-Level) Training
 Constraints                                None
 OPR                                        N/A




                                       44
                       Section E – Transitional Training Guide
16. No transition training requirements at this time. This area is reserved.




                                       45
                                              PART II

                         Section A – Specialty Training Standards


 1. Implementation. This STS will be used to identify technical training provided by AETC
for the 3-level Explosive Ordnance Disposal Apprentice pipeline courses and the 7-level
Craftsman course.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:

   2.1. Lists in Column 1 (Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common
   tasks, knowledge, and Technical References (TRs) necessary for airmen to perform
   duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level.
   2.2. Column 2 (Core Tasks) identifies core tasks (specialty-wide training requirements)
   by an asterisk (*) in the particular skill level Core column for 5- and 7- skill levels. As a
   minimum, trainees must complete all core and critical tasks for skill-level upgrade.

       2.2.1. All tasks in the 3-level column are considered wartime tasks. In response to a
       wartime scenario, these tasks will be taught in the 3-level course in a streamlined
       training environment.

       2.2.2. Tasks identified by a diamond  for 5-skill level and 7-skill level in the
       respective core task columns are extremely important to the career field. Equipment
       shortfalls at most locations however, have created problems with the actual hands-on
       certification of these tasks. In instances where required equipment is not available
       for instruction, completion of the task’s AFQTP and passing the corresponding
       CerTest is all that is required for upgrade and qualification training. Hands-on
       certification should be accomplished at the first opportunity when equipment is
       available.

   2.3. Provides certification for OJT. Columns 3A, B, C, D, and E are used to record
   completion of tasks and knowledge training requirements. Use automated training
   management systems to document technician qualifications. Task certification of core
   and critical tasks requires a training completion date and initials of the trainee, trainer,
   and certifier. All non-core tasks require training completion date and initials of the
   trainee and trainer only.

   2.4. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Columns 4A, B,
   and C show the proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of
   training on the task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the initial skills
   training course, correspondence course, CBT. See CADRE/AFSC/CDC listing
   maintained by the unit training manager for current CDC listings.

   2.5. Identifies qualitative requirements. Attachment 1 contains the Proficiency Code Key
   used to indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and
   career development courses.




                                         46
2.6. Becomes a Job Qualification Standard (JQS) for on-the-job training when placed in
AF Form 623, Individual Training Record, and used according to AFI 36-2201. When
used as a JQS, the following requirements apply:

     2.6.1. Documentation. Document and certify completion of training.

          2.6.1.1. Identify current duty position requirements and all core (*) and
          diamond ( ) tasks. Document task completion by annotating columns 3A, 3B,
                    



          3C, and 3D. NOTE: The use of an approved automated system is mandatory
          for training documentation.

          2.6.1.2. Enter the start date of the AFQTP on the AFQTP
          documentation record. Once completed enter the completion date.
          When hands-on training is started and completed annotate the STS
          accordingly.

          2.6.1.3. Transcribing from old document (paper or automated) to
          CFETP. Use the new STS to identify and certify all current and past task
          qualifications.

                   2.6.1.3.1. For tasks previously certified and still required in the
                   current duty position, enter the current date in the completion
                   column, trainee initials in the trainee column, and the current task
                   certifier or supervisor/trainer initials in the trainer column.

                   2.6.1.3.2. For tasks previously certified but not required in the current
                   duty position, transcribe only the previous certification dates (no
                   initials). If the task later becomes required in the duty position,
                   recertify using current dates and initials.

                   2.6.1.3.3. Annotate the AF Form 623a, (for example, ―I certify the
                   information contained in the CFETP dated XX was transcribed to the
                   CFETP dated XX, and the trainee was given the superseded CFETP.‖
                   Signed and dated by the supervisor and trainee).

          2.6.1.4. Documenting Career Knowledge. When a CDC is not available, the
          supervisor identifies STS training references that the trainee requires for
          career knowledge and ensures, as a minimum, that trainees cover all
          mandatory items specified in the Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory
          (AFECD). For two-time CDC exam failures, supervisors identify all STS
          items
          corresponding to the areas covered by the CDC. The trainee completes a
          study of STS references, undergoes evaluation by the task certifier, and
          receives certification on the STS. NOTE: Career knowledge must be
          documented prior to submitting a CDC waiver.

          2.6.1.5. De-Certification and Re-Certification. When an airman is found to
          be unqualified on a task, the supervisor shall decertify and enter the airman
          into qualification training. Appropriate remarks are entered on the AF Form
          623a, On-The-Job Training Record Continuation Sheet, as to the reason for
                                          47
            de-certification. The individual is re-certified using the normal certification
            process.

        2.6.2. Training Standard. Tasks are trained and certified to the ―Go‖ level. ―Go‖
        means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets the local
        requirements for accuracy, timeliness, and correct use of procedures. This equates
        to a ―3c‖ in the proficiency code key. AFQTPs, when available, shall be used to
        identify Air Force standardized procedures. Local requirements for accuracy,
        timeliness, and use of procedures shall be applied accordingly.

   2.7. This STS is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman
   Promotion System (WAPS). Senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their
   career fields develop Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) at the USAF Occupational
   Measurement Squadron. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged
   by test development team members as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades.
   Questions are based upon study references listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual
   responsibilities are in AFI 36-2605, Air Force Military Personnel Testing System, Chapter 1.
   WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard or Air Reserve Forces.

3. Recommendations. Comments and recommendations are invited concerning quality of
training AETC graduates receive. Reference this STS and address your correspondence
regarding changes to 782 TRG/TTS, 620 9th Avenue, Suite 3, Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2368
or E-mail 782d csil@sheppard.af.mil. A Customer Service Information Line (CSIL) has
been installed for the supervisor’s convenience to identify graduates who may have received
over or under training on tasks/knowledge items listed in this STS. For a quick response to
problems, call the CSIL at DSN 736-2574 any time day or night.


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL                                      LOREN M. RENO
                                              Lieutenant General, USAF
                                              DCS, Logistics, Installation & Mission Support


3 Attachments
 1. Qualitative Requirements
 2. 3-, 5-, and 7-level career field training requirements
 3. General Contingency Requirements




                                            48
                                             This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                       Initials (Written)               SSAN (Last 4 only)


Printed Name Of Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                      N/I


N/I                                                                      N/I


N/I                                                                      N/I


N/I                                                                      N/I


N/I                                                                      N/I


N/I                                                                      N/I


N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I




QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                                Proficiency Code Key

                                    Scale      Definition: The individual
                                    Value
                                               Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (Extremely
                                      1        Limited)

                                      2        Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
          Task
      Performance                     3        Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
                                               Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task.
         Levels                       4        (Highly Proficient)

                                      a        Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)

        *Task                         b        Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)
                                               Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
      Knowledge                       c        (Operating Principles)

        Levels                        d        Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
                                      A        Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)

      **Subject                       B        Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (Principles)

      Knowledge                       C        Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
       Levels                         D        Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)


Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.
- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.
(N) Indicates an item taught at JBABN3E831 00NC, Navy NAVSCOLEOD
X This mark is used alone in the course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.
NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war time.




                                                                49
This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                       Initials (Written)              SSAN (Last 4 only)


                                              Printed Name Of Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                     N/I


N/I                                                                      N/I


N/I                                                                      N/I


N/I                                                                      N/I


N/I                                                                      N/I


N/I                                                                      N/I


N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I




QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                       Behavioral Statement STS Coding System

  Code                                                               Definition

       K           Subject Knowledge Training - The verb selection identifies the individual’s
                   ability to identify facts, state principles, analyze, or evaluate the subject

      P            Performance Training - Identifies that the individual has performed the task to
                   the satisfaction of the course; however, the individual may not be capable of
                   meeting the field requirements for speed and accuracy.

      pk           Performance Knowledge Training - The verb selection identifies the
                   individual’s ability to relate simple facts, procedures, operating principles,
                   and operational theory for the task.

       -           No training provided in the course or CDC.


       X           Training is required but not provided due to limitations in resources.

Each STS element is written as a behavioral statement. The detail of the statement and verb selection reflects the level of training
provided by resident training and career development courses.




                                                                50
                                                                         3. Certification For OJT                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                               2. Core Tasks                                                           Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C         D          E             A                   B                 C
                                                                                                                            3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level      7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee     Trainer                (1)
                                                                                                              Certifier Course                (1)              (1)
                                                                                                                                      (2)   Course     (2)   Course       (2)
                                                                         Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials                DL             CDC                  DL

1 CE ORGANIZATION AND                                                                                                      -          -         -       -        -        -
 CAREER FIELD STRUCTURE
 TR: AFDD 42; AFIs 10-209, 10-
 211, 32-1022, 32-1001, 366-
 2101, 38-101, AFMAN AFECD;
 War Mobilization Plan (WMP)-
 1, Annex S.
1.1 Civil Engineer (CE) structure                                                                                          -         A          -       B         -       -
1.2 Progression in Career Ladder                                                                                           -         A          -       B         -       -
1.3 Duties and Responsibilities                                                                                            -         -          -       -         -       -
1.3.1 Peacetime                                                                                                                      A                  B
1.3.2 Contingency                                                                                                                    A                  B
1.4 Functions of:
1.4.1 Base Civil Engineer (BCE)                                                                                                      A                  B
1.4.2 Prime BEEF                                                                                                                     A                  B
1.4.3 RED HORSE                                                                                                                      A                  B
1.4.4 HQ Air National Guard (ANG) Air                                                                                                A                  B        B
      Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
1.4.5 HQ Air Force Civil Engineer Support                                                                                            A                  B
      Agency (AFCESA)
1.4.6 HQ Air Force Center For                                                                                                                           A                 B
      Environmental Excellence (AFCEE
1.4.7 Air Force Institute of Technology                                                                                                                                   A
      (AFIT)
1.4.8 Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL)                                                                                                                                A
1.5 Resources                                                                                                              -          -         -       -       -         -
1.5.1 Assess manpower requirements                                                                                         -          -         -       -      2b         b
1.5.2 Identify budget requirements                                                                                         -          -         -       -      2b         b
1.5.3 Determine equipment requirements                                                                                     -          -         -       -       -         b
1.5.4 Use Allowance Standards (AS)                                                                                         -          -         -       -      2b         b
     1.5.5 Research, Development, and                                                                                      -          -         -       -       -         -
            Acquisition (RD&A)
      TR: DoDD 5000.1
1.5.5.1 Process                                                                                                            -          -         -       -        B        B
1.5.5.2 Unit Responsibilities                                                                                              -          -         -       -        B        B
1.5.5.3 Major Command Responsibilities                                                                                     -          -         -       -        B        B
1.5.6 Assess vehicle requirements                                                                                          -          -         -       -        B        b
1.5.7 Requesting contract services                                                                                         -          -         -       -         -       b
1.5.8 Requesting Simplified Acquisition of                                                                                 -          -         -       -         -       B
      Base Engineering Requirements
      (SABER) contract
1.5.9 Geo Base Technologies                                                                                                -          -         -       -         -       B
1.5.10 Quality Assurance Personnel (QAP)                                                                                   -          -         -       -         -       -
       duties
       TR: Federal Acquisition Regulation
       Part 37.6; AFI 63-124; AFPAM 32-
       1004 V2
1.5.10.1 Evaluate contractor s performance                                                                                 -          -         -       -         -       -
1.5.10.2 Document contractor s performance                                                                                 -          -         -       -         -       -
       1.5.10.3 Maintain surveillance                                                                                      -          -         -       -         -       -
               documentation
2 SUPERVISION
  TR: AFIs 36-2201, 36-2304, 36-3401;
 AFMAN 36-2 108
2.1 Orient new personnel                                                                                                                                                  b
2.2 Assign personnel to work crew                                                                                                                                         b



                                                           51
                                                                         3. Certification For OJT                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                               2. Core Tasks                                                           Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C         D          E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                            3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee     Trainer                (1)
                                                                                                              Certifier Course                (1)              (1)
                                                                                                                                      (2)   Course     (2) Course       (2)
                                                                         Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials                DL             CDC                DL
2.3 Coordinate work assignments                                                                                                                                         b
2.4 Schedule work assignments and priorities                                                                                                                            b
2.5 Establish:
2.5.1 Work Methods                                                                                                                                                      b
2.5.2 Controls                                                                                                                                                          b
2.5.3 Performance standards                                                                                                                                             b
2.6 Evaluate work performance of                                                                                                                                        b
    subordinate personnel
2.7 Resolve technical problems for                                                                                                                                      b
    subordinate personnel
2.8 Direct projects                                                                                                                                                     b
3 TRAINING
  TR: AFI-2101, 36-2201 series; AFPD 36-
  22; AFMAN AFECD; Education and
  Training Course Announcements (ECTA)
3.1 Evaluate personnel to determine need for                                                                                                          a                 b
    training
3.2 Enlisted Specialty Training Supervision
3.2.1 Prepare job qualification standards                                                                                                             a                 b
3.2.2 Conduct training                                                                                                                                a                 b
3.2.3 Counsel trainees on their progress                                                                                                              a                 b
3.2.4 Monitor training effectiveness
3.2.4.1 Career Knowledge                                                                                                                              a                 b
3.2.4.2 Job Proficiency Upgrade                                                                                                                       a                 b
3.2.4.3 Qualification                                                                                                                                 a                 b
3.3 Maintain training records                                                                                                                         a                 b
3.4 Evaluate training programs effectiveness                                                                                                          a                 b
3.5 Recommend people for training                                                                                                                     a                 b
3.6 AETC Training Management System                                                                                                                   A                 B
    (Training Allocation)
3.7 Managing Certification and Testing                                                                                                                A                 B
    (CerTest)
3.8 National/DoD Certification Requirements                                                                                                           A                 B
3.9 Air Force Qualification Training Package                                                                                                          A                 B
    (AFQTP) Requirements
4 ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS AND
  COMPLIANCE
  TR: AFI's 10-2501, 32-7045, 32-7061;
  Chemicals in Your Community (EPA 550-
  K-93-003); EO 12856
4.1 Environmental Compliance Assessment                                                                                                               B                 B
    Management Program
4.2 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)                                                                                                             B                 B
5 CE MANAGEMENT
  TR: TR: AFIs 32-1001, 32-1022; AFPAMs
  32-1098, 32-1 125 V-1; AFMAN 23-1 10
5.1 Customer relationships                                                                                                           A                B
5.2 Work identification and authorization                                                                                                             A                 B
5.3 Plan work requirements                                                                                                                            A                 b
5.4 Plan logistics support (CEMAS, BOM)                                                                                                               A                 b
5.5 Government Purchase Card (GPC)                                                                                                                    A                 B
    Program
5.6 Maintain Recurring Work Program                                                                                                                   A                 b
    (RWP)
5.7 Scheduling/Time Accounting                                                                                                                        A                 b
5.8 Warranty and Guarantee Program                                                                                                                    A                 B
5.9 Property Accountability                                                                                                                           A                 B
5.10 Air Force Comprehensive Plan                                                                                                                     A                 B


                                                           52
                                                                         3. Certification For OJT                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                               2. Core Tasks                                                           Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C         D          E             A                   B               C
                                                                                                                            3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee     Trainer                (1)
                                                                                                              Certifier Course                (1)              (1)
                                                                                                                                      (2)   Course     (2) Course       (2)
                                                                         Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials                DL             CDC                DL
5.11 Legal limits                                                                                                                                       A               B
5.12 Mark "As Built " Drawings                                                                                                                          A               b
5.13 Reimbursements procedures                                                                                                                          A               B
5.14 CE-Specific Automated Systems
      (Computer) Capability
5.14.1 Perform Inputs                                                                                                                                   a               b
5.14.2 Maintain files                                                                                                                                   a               b
5.14.3 Develop automated reports                                                                                                                        a               b
5.14.4 Extract automated reports                                                                                                                        a               b
5.14.5 Perform automated analysis                                                                                                                                       b
5.15 Host Tenant and Interservice                                                                                                                                       A
      Agreements
5.16 Civil Engineer Civilian Management                                                                                                                                 B
6 AF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND
  HEALTH (AFOSH) PROGRAM
  TR: TR: AFIs 91-301, 9 1-302; AFPD 91-
  302
6.1 Supervisory Responsibilities                                                                                                                        B
6.2 Hazardous Materials Waste Handling                                                                                     -          -         -       B       -        -
6.3 Lead-based paint (LBP) hazard                                                                                          -          -         -       B       -        -
    TR: TR: 29 CFR 1926.62; Working with
    Lead-based Paint: Facts and Information
    Applicable to Air Force Facilities
6.4 Asbestos awareness                                                                                                     -          -         -       B       -        -
7 PUBLICATIONS
 TR: TR: AFI 3 3-360 Vol I
7.1 Military                                                                                                        A (N)             -         -       B       -       -
7.2 Commercial                                                                                                      A (N)             -         -       B       -       -
7.3 Engineering Technical Letters (ETL)                                                                                                                 A               B
8 EOD FLIGHT MANAGEMENT                                                                                                    -          -         -       -       -       -
 TR: AFIs 10-101, 10-201, 10-208, 10-210,
 10-402, 10-403, 10-404, 21-101, 21-401, 21
 Series, 31-401, 3 1-501, 32-3001, 33-203,
 38-101, 38-201, 38-204, 65-601 Vol 1, 91-
 101, 91-204, 91-207, 91-301, 91-302;
 AFIND 17; AFJI 32-3002; AFMAN 10-
 206, 10-401 Vol 1 & 2, 24-204(I), AFECD,
 91-201; AFOSH STD 48-137; AFPD 21-3,
 32-30, 91-1, 91-2, 91-3; AFCAT 21-209,
 Vol 1 & 2; DoDD 1000.3, 2000.12,
 5160.62, 5200.2, 5210.2, 5230.11; DoDI
 2000.14, 6050.5, 6055.1; DoD 0-2000.12H,
 3150.8M, 5200.1R, 5200.2R, 5200.8R,
 6055.5M; 29 CFR 1910; TOs 00-5-1, 00-5-
 2, 00-5-18, 00-25-235, 00-35-54, 60A
 Series, and 0-1 Series Indexes
8.1 History of the EOD Program                                                                                             -          -         -       A       -        -
8.2 Air Force EOD Program                                                                                                  -          -         -       -       -        -
8.2.1 Air Staff, AFCESA, and MAJCOM                                                                                        -          -         -       B       -        -
      EOD Responsibilities
8.2.2 EOD Mission Areas                                                                                                    -          -         -       B       -        -
8.2.3 EOD Flight Organizational Structure                                                                                  -          -         -       B       -        -
8.2.4 Specialized EOD Unit/Command                                                                                         -          -         -       B       -        -
      Responsibilities
8.2.5 Duties of AFSCs 3E831/51/71                                                                                          -          -         -       B       -        -
8.3 Incident Response                                                                                                      -          -         -       -       -        -
    TR: AFI 10-2501, AFI 32-3001, AFJI
    32-3 002, EOD CONOPs
8.3.1 Procedures                                                                                                           -          -         -       B       -        -


                                                           53
                                                                         3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                               2. Core Tasks                                                         Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        B      C         A        B        C         D         E            A                  B                  C
                                                                                                                            3 Skill Level  5 Skill Level      7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee     Trainer               (1)
                                                                                                              Certifier Course              (1)              (1)
                                                                                                                                      (2) Course     (2)   Course       (2)
                                                                         Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials                DL           CDC                  DL
 8.3.2 Apply Operational Risk Management                 *                                                               -         -         -       -       2b         -
       (ORM) Principles to EOD Operations
 8.4 EOD Information Management System                                                                                   -         -         -       -          -       -
     (EODIMS)
     TR: EOD CONOPS and Users Manual
 8.4.1 System Overview                                                                                                   -         -         -       -          -       -
 8.4.2 Understand User Roles                                                                                             -         -         -       -          -       -
 8.4.3 Create User Profiles                                                                                              -         -         -       -          -       -
 8.4.4 Navigate through System Modules                                                                                   -         -         -       -          -       -
 8.4.5 Create EOD Incident Reports                                                                                       -         -         -       -          -       -
 8.5 War Planning and Execution                                                                                          -         -         -       -          -       -
     TR: AFI 10-401, AFI 10-402, WMP 1
     Annex S
 8.5.1 Identify the Elements of the UTCs                                                                                 -         -         -       B          -       -
 8.5.2 Use Time-Phased Force Development                                                                                 -         -         -       -         B        -
       List (TPFDL)
 8.5.3 War and Mobilization Plan (WMP)                                                                                   -         -         -       -        B         -
 8.5.4 Base Integrated Deployment System                                                                                 -         -         -       -         -        -
 8.5.5 Assign AEF Forces                                                                                                 -         -         -       -         -        -
 8.5.6 AEF Reporting Tool (ART)                                                                                          -         -         -       -         -        -
 8.5.7 Develop Contingency Munitions                                                                                     -         -         -       -       2b         -
       Storage Area Plans
 8.5.8 Identify Requirements for Situation                                                                               -         -         -       -       2b         -
       Reports (SITREP)
8.5.9 Apply Status of Resources and Training                                                                             -         -         -       B       2b         -
     System (SORTS) to EOD Functions
 8.5.10 Develop Contingency Plans Input                                                                                                                      2b
 8.5.11 Contingency Operations/Mobility                                                                                                                       B
       Planning and Execution System
       (COMPES)
 8.5.12 Use and Documentation of CFETP                                                                                                                       2b
 8.6 EOD Security Requirements                                                                                           -         -         -       -        -         -
     TR: AFI 3 1-501, AFI 3 1-101, AFI 33-
     211, AFI 33-312, AFI 10-701
 8.6.1 Identify Security Violations                                                                                      -         -         -       B          -       -
 8.6.2 Report Security Violations                                                                                        -         -         -       B          -       -
 8.6.3 Storage of Classified Information                                                                                 -         -         -       B          -       -
     8.6.4 Control/Access Procedures for                                                                                 -         -         -       B          -       -
             Classified Information
 8.6.5 Destruction and Disposition of                                                                                    -         -         -       B          -       -
       Classified Information
 8.6.6 Transportation of Classified                                                                                      -         -         -       -          -       -
       Information
 8.6.7 COMSEC Vulnerabilities of AFSC                                                                                    -         -         -       B          -       -
       3E8X1
 8.6.8 Protection of Firearms and Munitions                                                                              -         -         -       B          -       -
 8.6.9 OPSEC Vulnerabilities of AFSC                                                                                     -         -         -       B          -       -
       3E8X1
          8.7 Technical Orders (TOs)                                                                                     -         -         -       -          -       -
               TR: AFTO 00-5-1
 8.7.1 Technical Order System                                                                                         A(N)         -         -       B          -       -
 8.7.2 Use Indexes to Locate Information                                                                               -           -         -       B          -       -
 8.7.3 Use TOs When Performing Tasks                      *                                                          2b(N)         -         -       B          -       -
 8.7.4 Establish and Maintain TO Files                                                                                 -           -         -       B          -       -
 8.7.5 Requisition TOs                                                                                                 -           -         -       B          -       -
 8.7.6 Initiate TO Improvement Reports                                                                                 -           -         -       B          -       -
 8.7.7 Use AFI 2 1-203 and ETIMS and/or                                                                                -           -         -       B          -       -
       JCALS for Posting and Tracking USAF
       TOs


                                                           54
                                                                         3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                               2. Core Tasks                                                         Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        B      C         A        B        C         D         E            A                   B                  C
                                                                                                                          3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level      7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee     Trainer               (1)
                                                                                                              Certifier Course               (1)              (1)
                                                                                                                                       (2) Course     (2)   Course       (2)
                                                                         Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials                DL            CDC                  DL
8.8 Research, Development and Acquisition                                                                                 -         -         -       -          -       -
    (RD&A)
     TR: DoDD 5000.1; AFI 24-302
8.8.1 Initial Capabilities Document                                                                                       -         -         -       -        B         -
8.8.2 Capabilities Development Document                                                                                   -         -         -       -        B         -
8.8.3 Develop Notional Concept                                                                                            -         -         -       -       2b         -
8.9 Frequency Management Requirements                                                                                     -         -         -       A         -        -
8.10 Physical Training Standards                                                                                          -         -         -       -         -        -
      TR: AFI 10-3 502, AFI 32-300 1
8.10.1 Maintain Physical Training Standard                                                                                -         -         -       -          -       -
8.10.2 Exercise Physiology                                                                                                -         -         -       -          -       -
8.10.3 Sports Nutrition Facts                                                                                             -         -         -       -          -       -
 9 APPLIED PRINCIPLES OF PHYSICS                                                                                          -         -         -       -          -       -
 AND CHEMISTRY
 TR: AEODPS-NG
9.1 Properties of Matter                                                                                              B(N)          -         -       B          -       -
9.2 Laws of Motion                                                                                                    B(N)          -         -       B          -       -
9.3 Simple Machines                                                                                                   B(N)          -         -       B          -       -
9.4 Measurement Systems                                                                                                -            -         -       -          -       -
9.4.1 English System                                                                                                  B (N)         -         -       B          -       -
9.4.2 Metric System                                                                                                   B (N)         -         -       B          -       -
9.4.3 Convert Between Systems                                                                                          -            -         -       -          -       -
9.4.3.1 Mass                                              *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       B          -       -
9.4.3.2 Volume                                            *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       B          -       -
9.4.3.3 Lengths                                           *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       B          -       -
9.4.3.4 Temperature                                                                                                  2b (N)         -         -       B          -       -
9.5 Chemistry                                                                                                          -            -         -       -          -       -
9.5.1 Elements                                                                                                         -            -         -       -          -       -
9.5.2 Compounds                                                                                                        -            -         -       -          -       -
9.5.3 Bonding                                                                                                          -            -         -       -          -       -
9.5.4 Precursors                                                                                                       -            -         -       -          -       -
10 TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT                                                                                                 -            -         -       -          -       -
   TR: 60A-2-1 -3; 60A-2-1-3-2; 60A-2-1-20;
   60A-2-1-42; 60A-2-1-46; 60A-2-1-58;
   60A-2-1-74; 60A-2-1-75; 60A-2-1-76;
   60A-2-1-77; 60A-2-1-78; 60A-2-1-79;
   60A-2-1-90; 1 1A8-7-1; 1 1W3-5-1-1 11;
   14S5-25-1; 31R4-2PSN13-1; 32-1-2; 32-
   1-101; 32-1-151; 34-1-3; TM 11-5855-
   3 06-10; Manufacturer's Manuals
10.1 Common Hand Tools                                                                                                    -         -         -       -          -       -
      TR: TR: 32-1-2; 32-1-101; 32-1-151;
      34-1-3
10.1.1 Select Proper Tools                                                                                           2b (N)         -         -       -          -       -
10.1.2 Use Tools Properly                                                                                            2b (N)         -         -       -          -       -
10.1.3 Maintain Tools                                                                                                  -            -         -       -          -       -
10.2 Use Specialized EOD Tools                                                                                         -            -         -       -          -       -
10.2.1 Remote Firing Device (RFD)                         *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       -          -       -
       TR: Manufactures Manual
10.2.2 Mini Mine Detector                                                                                                 -         -         -       -          -       -
       TR: Manufactures Manual
10.2.3 Mk 26 FOL                                          *                                                               -         -         -       -          -       -
       TR: 60A-2-1-58
10.2.4 Cameras                                                                                                            -         -         -       -          -       -
       TR: Manufacturer's Manual
10.2.5 Mk 2                                               *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       -          -       -
       TR: 60A-2-1-3
10.2.6 Mk 1                                               *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       -          -       -
       TR: 60A-2-1-46


                                                           55
                                                                         3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                               2. Core Tasks                                                        Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        B      C         A        B        C         D        E            A                  B                 C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee     Trainer              (1)
                                                                                                              Certifier Course              (1)              (1)
                                                                                                                                      (2) Course     (2) Course       (2)
                                                                         Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials               DL            CDC                DL
10.2.7 Mk 38 Mod 0 Small Caliber Dearmer                                                                                 -        -         -       -         -       -
        TR: 60A-2-1-78
10.2.8 Mk 40 Mod 0 UXO Standoff                                                                                          -        -         -       -         -       -
        Disrupter (RE-70)
       TR: 60A-2-1-79
10.2.9 Field Fabricated Dearmer/Improvised                                                                               -        -         -       -         -       -
        Disposable Dearmer
       TR: 60A-2-1-3-2
10.2.10 M107 Barrett                                                                                                    -        -         -       -         -       -
          TR: Manufacturer's Manual
10.2.11 Bomb Suit                                         *                                                         2b (N)        -         -       -         -       -
        TR: Manufacturer's Manual
10.2. 12 Bomb Blanket/Shield                                                                                             -        -         -       -         -       -
        TR: Manufacturer's Manual
10.2. 13 Portable X-Ray Units                                                                                         -           -         -       -         -       -
10.2.13.1 Mk 32 System                                    *                                                         2b (N)        -         -       -         -       -
          TR: 60A-2-1-42; 60A-2-1-90
10.2. 13.2 Real Time Radiograph (RTR,                     *                                                                  -    -         -       -         -       -
          Mk41)
          TR: 60A-2-1-74
10.2. 14 Percussion Actuated Non-electric                 *                                                         2b (N)        -         -       -         -       -
         (PAN) Disrupter
        TR: 60A-2-1-77
10.2.15 MK 31 JROD                                                                                                       -        -         -       -         -       -
10.2.16 Robotics                                                                                                         -        -         -       -         -       -
10.2.16.1 MK-3 RONS                                                                                                      -        -         -       -         -       -
          TR: 60A-2-1-75
10.2. 16.2 F6A                                            *                                                              -        -         -       -         -       -
          TR: Manufacturer's Manual
10.2. 16.3 HD-1                                           *                                                              -        -         -       -         -       -
          TR: Manufacturer's Manual
10.2. 17 Counter Radio Controlled                                                                                        -        -         -       -         -       -
         Improvised Explosive Device
         (RCIED) Electronic Warfare
         (C.R.E.W.)
        TR: System Publications
10.2.18 Night Vision Equipment                            *                                                              -        -         -       -         -       -
         TR: TM 11-5855-306-10
10.2. 19 Fiber Optic Video Scope                                                                                         -        -         -       -         -       -
        TR: Manufacturer's Manual
10.2.20 SCBA                                              *                                                         2b (N)        -         -       -         -       -
        TR: Owner's Manual
10.2.21 Level A & B Protective Suits                      *                                                              -        -         -       -         -       -
        TR: Manufacturer's Manual
10.2.22 ADM 300 Kit C and E Radiacs                       *                                                         2b (N)        -         -       -         -       -
10.2.23 AN/PDX-2 Radiac Kit                                                                                           -           -         -       -         -       -
10.2.23.1 AN/UDR-14                                                                                                 2b (N)        -         -       -         -       -
10.2.23.2 Handheld Radiological Monitor                                                                             2b (N)        -         -       -         -       -
          (HRM)
10.2.23.3 Linear Radiological Monitor                                                                               2b (N)        -         -       -         -       -
          (LRM)
10.2.23.4 Identifier                                                                                                2b (N)        -         -       -         -       -
10.2.24 AN-PDR 74 Radiacs                                                                                           2b (N)        -         -       -         -       -
         TR: EE730-LA-OMI-010/8 153-
         PDR74
10.2.25 Explosive/Chemical Detector (Laser                *                                                              -        -         -       -         -       -
         Spectrometer TIC/TIM)
10.2.26 Tactical Global Positioning System                *                                                                  -    -         -       -         -       -
         TR: Manufacturer's Manual



                                                           56
                                                                         3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                               2. Core Tasks                                                        Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        B      C         A        B        C         D        E            A                  B                 C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee     Trainer              (1)
                                                                                                              Certifier Course              (1)              (1)
                                                                                                                                      (2) Course     (2) Course       (2)
                                                                         Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials               DL            CDC                DL

10.2.27 Tactical Radios                                   *                                                                  -    -         -       -         -       -
         TR: Manufacturer's Manual
10.2.28 Secure Satellite Communication                                                                                   -        -         -       -         -       -
         System
         TR: Manufacturer's Manual
10.2.29 Generators                                                                                                       -        -         -       -         -       -
         TR: Manufacturer's Manual
10.2.30 All-Purpose Remote Transport                                                                                        -    -         -       A         -       -
          System (ARTS)
          TR: 11A8-7-1
10.2.31 BomBot                                                                                                           -
11 EXPLOSIVES AND DEMOLITION                                                                                             -        -         -       -         -       -
  PROCEDURES
  TR: 60A-2-1-33; AFMAN 91-201; TM 9-
  1300-200; TM 9-1300-214; FM 9-16
11.1 Identification                                                                                                  A (N)        -         -       B         -       -
11.2 Effects                                                                                                         A (N)        -         -       B         -       -
11.3 Application and Use                                                                                             A (N)        -         -       B         -       -
11.4 Improvised (Home-made) Explosive                                                                                 -           -         -       -         -       -
11.4.1 Types                                                                                                          -           -         -       -         -       -
11.4.2 Characteristics                                                                                                -           -         -       -         -       -
11.4.3 Precursors                                                                                                     -           -         -       -         -       -
11.5 Perform Grounding Procedures                         *                                                         2b (N)        -         -       B         -       -
11.6 Apply Electromagnetic Radiation                                                                                2b (N)        -         -       B         -       -
      Precautions
11.7 Prepare Firing/Demolition Systems                                                                                   -        -         -       -         -       -
      TR: 60A-1-1-31
11.7.1 Electric                                           *                                                         2b (N)        -         -       b         -       -
11.7.2 Non-electric                                       *                                                         2b (N)        -         -       b         -       -
11.8 Perform Disposal Techniques                                                                                      -           -         -       -         -       -
      TR: 60A-1-1-31
11.8.1 Detonation                                         *                                                         2b (N)        -         -       B         -       -
11.8.2 Thermite                                           *                                                         2b (N)        -         -       B         -       -
11.8.3 Burn                                               *                                                         2b (N)        -         -       B         -       -
11.8.4 Vent and Burn                                      *                                                         1a (N)        -         -       B         -       -
11.8.5 Use shaped charges                                 *                                                          2b(N)        -         -       -         -       -
11.8.6 Demilitarization                                                                                              A (N)        -         -       A         -       -
12 U.S. AND FOREIGN DROPPED                                                                                            -          -         -       -         -       -
  MUNITIONS
  TR: 60B-series; 60C-series
12.1 Bombs and Bomb Fuzes                                                                                                -        -         -       -         -       -
      TR: 60B-series
12.1.1 Identify                                           *                                                         2b (N)        -         -       -         -       -
12.1.2 Observe Safety Precautions                         *                                                         2b (N)        -         -       -         -       -
12.1.3 Render Safe                                        *                                                         2b (N)        -         -       -         -       -
12.1.4 Perform Disposal Procedures                                                                                  2b (N)        -         -       -         -       -
12.2 Dispensers and Payloads                                                                                          -           -         -       -         -       -
      TR: 60C-series
12.2.1 Identify                                           *                                                         2b (N)        -         -       -         -       -
12.2.2 Observe Safety Precautions                         *                                                         2b (N)        -         -       -         -       -
12.2.3 Render Safe                                        *                                                         2b (N)        -         -       -         -       -
12.2.4 Perform Disposal Procedures                                                                                  2b (N)        -         -       -         -       -
13 U.S. AND FOREIGN PROJECTED                                                                                         -           -         -       -         -       -
  MUNITIONS
  TR: 60D-series; 60E-series; 60F-series
13.1 Projectiles and Projectile Fuzes                                                                                    -        -         -       -         -       -
      TR: 60D-series
13.1.1 Identify                                           *                                                         2b (N)        -         -       -         -       -



                                                           57
                                                                         3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                               2. Core Tasks                                                         Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        B      C         A        B        C         D         E           A                  B                 C
                                                                                                                          3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee     Trainer               (1)
                                                                                                              Certifier Course               (1)              (1)
                                                                                                                                       (2) Course     (2) Course       (2)
                                                                         Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials                DL            CDC                DL
13.1.2 Observe Safety Precautions                         *                                                          2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
13.1.3 Render Safe                                        *                                                          2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
13.1.4 Perform Disposal Procedures                                                                                   2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
13.2 Grenades and Grenade Fuzes                                                                                        -           -        -       -         -        -
     TR: 60E-series
13.2.1 Identify                                           *                                                          2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
13.2.2 Observe Safety Precautions                         *                                                          2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
13.2.3 Render Safe                                        *                                                          2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
13.2.4 Perform Disposal Procedures                                                                                   2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
13.3 Rockets and Rocket Fuzes                                                                                          -           -        -       -         -        -
     TR: 60F-series
13.3.1 Identify                                           *                                                          2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
13.3.2 Observe Safety Precautions                         *                                                          2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
13.3.3 Render Safe                                        *                                                          2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
13.3.4 Perform Disposal Procedures                                                                                   2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
14 U.S. AND FOREIGN GUIDED                                                                                             -           -        -       -         -        -
  MISSILES
  TR: 60G-series
14.1 Identify                                             *                                                          2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
14.2 Observe Safety Precautions                           *                                                          2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
14.3 Render Safe                                          *                                                          2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
14.4 Perform Disposal Procedures                                                                                     2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
15 U.S. AND FOREIGN PLACED                                                                                             -           -        -       -         -        -
  MUNITIONS
  TR: 60H-series, FM 5-25; FM 5-34
15.1 Minefield                                                                                                           -         -        -       -         -        -
      TR: 60A-1-1-22; FM 5-34; FM 20-32
15.1.1 Concepts                                                                                                       A (N)        -        -       B         -        -
15.1.2 Breaching Charges                                                                                              A (N)        -        -       B         -        -
15.2 Landmines and Landmine Fuzes                                                                                      -           -        -       -         -        -
15.2.1 Locate                                             *                                                          2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
15.2.2 Identify                                           *                                                          2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
15.2.3 Observe Safety Precautions                         *                                                          2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
15.2.4 Render Safe                                        *                                                          2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
15.2.5 Perform Disposal Procedures                                                                                   2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
15.3 Booby Traps and Booby Trap Fuzes                                                                                  -           -        -       -         -        -
15.3.1 Locate                                             *                                                          2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
15.3.2 Identify                                           *                                                          2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
15.3.3 Observe Safety Precautions                         *                                                          2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
15.3.4 Render Safe                                        *                                                          2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
15.3.5 Perform Disposal Procedures                                                                                   2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
16 PYROTECHNICS                                                                                                        -           -        -       -         -        -
  TR: 60K-series
16.1 Identify                                             *                                                          2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
16.2 Observe Safety Precautions                           *                                                          2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
16.3 Render Safe                                          *                                                          2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
16.4 Perform Disposal Procedures                                                                                     2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
17 U.S. AND FOREIGN UNDERWATER                                                                                         -           -        -       -         -        -
  ORDNANCE
  TR: 60Q-series; 60R-series; 60S-series
17.1 Identify                                                                                                        1a (N)        -        -       -         -        -
17.2 Observe Safety Precautions                                                                                      1a (N)        -        -       -         -        -
18 ACCESS AND RECOVERY                                                                                                 -           -        -       -         -        -
  TR: 60A-1-1-5; FM 5-125
18.1 Identify Soil Characteristics                                                                                    A (N)        -        -       B         -        -
18.2 Identify terrain changes due to                                                                                  a (N)
  unexploded ordnance



                                                           58
                                                                         3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                               2. Core Tasks                                                         Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        B      C         A        B        C         D         E            A                   B                  C
                                                                                                                          3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level      7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee     Trainer               (1)
                                                                                                              Certifier Course               (1)              (1)
                                                                                                                                       (2) Course     (2)   Course       (2)
                                                                         Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials                DL            CDC                  DL
18.3 Locate UXOs
TR: 60A-1-1-4
18.3.1 Surface                                            *                                                          2b(N)
18.3.2 Sub-surface                                        *                                                          2b(N)
18.4 Identify Ordnance Access Methods                                                                                A (N)          -         -       B          -       -
18.5 Tie Knots, Bends, and Hitches                                                                                   1a (N)         -         -       -          -       -
18.6 Perform Field Rigging and Improvised                                                                            1a (N)         -         -       -          -       -
      Hoisting
18.7 Rappel Techniques                                                                                                    -         -         -       -          -       -
18.7.1 Tie Knots                                                                                                          -         -         -       -          -       -
18.7.2 Perform Rope Management                                                                                            -         -         -       -          -       -
18.7.3 Care for Rappel Equipment                                                                                          -         -         -       -          -       -
18.7.4 Use Belay Systems                                                                                                  -         -         -       -          -       -
18.7.5 Construct Anchors                                                                                                  -         -         -       -          -       -
18.7.6 Rappel Using Standard and Non-                                                                                     -         -         -       -          -       -
       Standard Techniques
19 EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE                                                                                                     -         -         -       -          -       -
  RECONNAISSANCE AND
  ASSESSMENT
  TR: 60A-1-1-2; 60A-1-1-4; 60A-1-1-7;
  60A- 1-1-22
19.1 Identify Hazards                                                                                                  -            -         -       -          -       -
19.1.1 Aerial and Surface Reconnaissance                                                                               -            -         -       -          -       -
19.1.2 Weather and Terrain Analysis                                                                                    -            -         -       -          -       -
19.1.3 Munitions Type                                     *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       -          -       -
19.1.4 Fuzing Type                                        *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       -          -       -
19.2 Munitions Safety Precautions                                                                                      -            -         -       -          -       -
      TR: 60-1-1-22
19.2.1 Determine                                          *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       -          -       -
19.2.2 Demonstrate                                        *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       -          -       -
19.3 Technical Intelligence Information                                                                                -            -         -       -          -       -
      TR: 60A-1-1-7
19.3.1 Data Collection                                                                                                    -         -         -       -        B         -
19.3.2 Prepare Reports                                                                                                    -         -         -       -       2b         -
19.4 Technical Intelligence Exploitation                                                                                  -         -         -       -         -        -
      TR: 60A-1-1-7
19.4.1 Destructive Exploitation                                                                                           -         -         -       B         B        -
19.4.2 Non-Destructive Exploitation                                                                                       -         -         -       B         B        -
19.5 Explosive Remnants of War/Captured                                                                                   -         -         -       B         B        -
      Enemy Ammunition
19.6 Order of Battle Concept                                                                                              -         -         -       -          -       -
20 PROTECTION OF PERSONNEL AND                                                                                            -         -         -       -          -       -
  PROPERTY
  TR: 60A-1-1-4
20.1 Determine Hazard Distances                           *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       -          -       -
20.2 Estimate Collateral Damage                           *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       -          -       -
20.3 Determine Protective Works                                                                                        -            -         -       -          -       -
20.4 Use Tactical Decision Aid                           *                                                             -            -         -       -          -       -
21 RENDER SAFE TECHNIQUES                                                                                              -            -         -       -          -       -
  TR: 60A-2-1 -51; 60A-2-1-60; 60A-2-1-91
21.1 Immobilize Fuzes                                     *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       -          -       -
      TR: 60A-2-1-60
21.2 Remove Fuzes                                         *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       -          -       -
21.3 Disable Electrical Components                        *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       -          -       -
21.4 Disrupt Firing Trains                                *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       -          -       -
21.5 SMUD Techniques                                                                                                   -            -         -       B          -       -
      TR: 60A-2-1-73
       21.6 Use Thermal Techniques                        *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       B          -       -
             TR: 60A-2-1-73

                                                           59
                                                                         3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                               2. Core Tasks                                                         Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        B       C        A        B        C         D         E            A                   B                  C
                                                                                                                          3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level      7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee     Trainer               (1)
                                                                                                              Certifier Course               (1)              (1)
                                                                                                                                       (2) Course     (2)   Course       (2)
                                                                         Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials                DL            CDC                  DL
21.7 Use Shaped Charges and Other                         *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       B          -       -
      Explosive Techniques
     TR: 60A-2-1-51; 60A-2-1-73
22 U.S. AND FOREIGN AIRCRAFT                                                                                              -         -         -       -          -       -
  WEAPONS
  TR: 00-105-E9; 60J-series
22.1 U.S. Aircraft Egress Systems and                                                                                     -         -         -       -          -       -
      System Components
22.1.1 Locate                                             *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       B          -       -
22.1.2 Identify                                           *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       B          -       -
22.1.3 Observe Safety Precautions                         *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       B          -       -
22.1.4 Render Safe                                        *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       B          -       -
22.1.5 Perform Disposal Procedures                                                                                   2b (N)         -         -       B          -       -
22.2 Aircraft Armament                                                                                                 -            -         -       -          -       -
22.2.1 Gun System                                                                                                      -            -         -       -          -       -
22.2.1.1 Locate                                           *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       B          -       -
22.2.1.2 Identify                                         *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       B          -       -
22.2.1.3 Observe Safety Precautions                       *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       B          -       -
22.2.1.4 Render Safe                                      *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       B          -       -
22.3 Release and Launching System                                                                                      -            -         -       -          -       -
22.3.1 Locate                                             *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       B          -       -
22.3.2 Identify                                           *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       B          -       -
22.3.3 Observe Safety Precautions                         *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       B          -       -
22.3.4 Render Safe                                        *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       B          -       -
22.4 Foreign Aircraft Weapon Systems                                                                                   -            -         -       -          -       -
22.4.1 Identify                                                                                                        -            -         -       B          -       -
22.4.2 Observe Safety Precautions                                                                                      -            -         -       B          -       -
22.5 U.S. Aircraft Flare and Chaff                                                                                     -            -         -       -          -       -
Countermeasure Systems
22.5.1 Identify                                           *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       -          -       -
22.5.2 Observe Safety Precautions                         *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       -          -       -
22.5.3 Render Safe                                        *                                                          2b (N)         -         -       -          -       -
22.5.4 Disposal                                                                                                      2b (N)         -         -       -          -       -
23 RANGES                                                                                                              -            -         -       -          -       -
  TR: AFI 13-212; AFMAN 91-201; AFI
  32-3001; 11A-1-42; 11A-1-60; 11A-1-66;
  60A-1-1-22; CFR 40; CFR 49
23.1 Develop Plans for Range Clearance                            *                                                       -         -         -       -       2b         -
    Operations
23.2 Perform Active Range Clearance                                                                                  1a (N)         -         -       B          -       -
      Operations
23.3 Proficiency, Training, and Demolition                                                                                -         -         -       -          -       -
      Ranges
     TR: AFMAN 91-201
23.3.1 Establish                                         *                                                                -         -         -       B          -       -
23.3.2 Maintain                                          *                                                                -         -         -       B          -       -
23.3.3 Develop Plans for Demolition Range                *
                                                                                                                          -         -         -       B          -       -
        Operations
23.3.4 Explosives site planning                          *                                                                                            B
24 TREATMENT OF EXPLOSIVES AND                                                                                            -         -         -       -          -       -
  RELATED HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
  TR: AFH 10-22, vol 1; AFI 3 1-207; AFI 32-
  7080; AFMAN 91-201; AFMAN 32- 4013;
  DoDD 5210.56; DoDI 4715.8; DoD 5100.76M;
  DOD 6055.9-STD; 40 CFR; 49 CFR; 11A-1-
  42; 11A-1-60; 11A-1-66; 60A-1-1-31
24.1 RCRA                                                                                                                 -         -         -       -          -       -
24.1.1 Transport                                                                                                          -         -         -       A         B        -
24.1.2 Treatment                                                                                                          -         -         -       A         B        -
24.1.3 Store                                                                                                              -         -         -       A         B        -
                                                           60
                                                                         3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                               2. Core Tasks                                                         Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        B      C         A        B        C         D         E            A                  B                  C
                                                                                                                            3 Skill Level  5 Skill Level      7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee     Trainer               (1)
                                                                                                              Certifier Course              (1)              (1)
                                                                                                                                      (2) Course     (2)   Course       (2)
                                                                         Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials                DL           CDC                  DL
24.1.4 Inspect                                                                                                           -         -         -       A          -       -
24.1.5 Certify                                                                                                           -         -         -       A          -       -
24.1.6 Environmental Protection                                                                                          -         -         -        -         -       -
        Consideration
  24.1.6.1 Identify Requirements for EPA                                                                                 -         -         -        -        B        -
          Permits and Applications
24.1.6.2 Identify Environmental Impacts                                                                                  -         -         -        -        B        -
          Caused by EOD
24.1.6.3 Apply EPA Regulations and                                                                                       -         -         -        -         -       -
         Directives Pertaining to EOD
         Operations
24.1.6.3.1 Military Munitions Rule                                                                                       -         -         -       A         B        -
            (Emergency Response and
             Operational Ranges)
24.1.6.3.2 Military Munitions Response                                                                                   -         -         -        -         -       -
            Program (FUDS, BRAC, Clean-
            up)
24.1.6.3.3 National Environmental Policy                                                                                 -         -         -        -         -       -
            Act (NEPA)
24.1.6.3.4 Environmental Impact Analysis                                                                                 -         -         -        -         -       -
            Process (EIAP)
24.1.6.3.5 Emergency Planning and                                                                                        -         -         -        -         -       -
            Community Right to Know Act
            (EPCRA)
24.1.6.4 Determine EPA Documentation                                                                                     -         -         -        -         -       -
         Requirements for:
24.1.6.4.1 Transportation                                                                                                -         -         -        -        B        -
24.1.6.4.2 Treatment                                                                                                     -         -         -        -        B        -
24.1.7 Ammunitions Disposition Request                                                                                   -         -         -        -         -       -
        (ADR) Operation
24.1.7.1 Plan                                                                                                          -           -         -        -      2b         -
24.1.7.2 Perform                                                                                                       -           -         -        -       -         -
24.2 Non-RCRA                                                                                                          -           -         -        -       -         -
24.2.1 Transport                                                                                                      A(N)         -         -       B        -         -
24.2.2 Disposal                                           *                                                          2b(N)         -         -       B        -         -
24.2.3 Store                                                                                                           -           -         -       B        -         -
25 IMPROVISED DEVICES                                                                                                  -           -         -        -       -         -
   TR: 60A-1-1-9; 60A-1-1-15; 60A-1-1-31;
   60A-2-1-73-2; 60A-2-1-8 1; 60A-2-1-82;
   60L-series
25.1 Identify                                             *                                                          2b(N)         -         -                  -       -
25.1.1 Identify electronic components and                 *                                                          a(N)          -         -       B          -       -
   circuits
25.1.2 Identify general explosives                                                                                                 -         -                  -       -
        TR: 60A-1-1-9; 60A-1-1-15; 60A-1-1-
   31; Federal agency data bulletins reports
25.1.3 Current threat foreign and domestic                                                                            A(N)         -         -                  -       -
     explosives (such as: Semtex, Binary,
     Dynamite)
25.1.4 Improvised explosives – Unknown                                                                                A(N)         -         -                  -       -
     Bulk Explosives (UBE)
25.2 Use assigned protective equipment                    *                                                          2b(N)                           B
25.3 Select diagnostics techniques                        *                                                          a(N)          -         -       B          -       -
25.4 Interpret radiographs                                *                                                          2b(N)         -         -                  -       -
25.5 Perform IED Threat Assessment                                                                                   2b(N)         -         -                  -       -
25.6 Observe safety precautions                           *                                                          2b(N)         -         -                  -       -
25.7 Locate                                               *                                                          2b(N)         -         -                  -       -
25.8 Gain access                                          *                                                          2b(N)         -         -                  -       -
25.9 Render safe                                          *                                                          2b(N)         -         -                  -       -


                                                           61
                                                                         3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                               2. Core Tasks                                                        Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        B      C         A        B        C         D        E            A                  B                 C
                                                                                                                          3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee     Trainer              (1)
                                                                                                              Certifier Course              (1)              (1)
                                                                                                                                      (2) Course     (2) Course       (2)
                                                                         Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials               DL            CDC                DL
25.10 Advanced render safe techniques                                                                                             -         -                 -       -
25.10.1 Dragon                                                                                                                    -         -       B         -       -
         TR: 11A8-7-11
25.10.2 Dynamic Entry Charges/                                                                                                    -         -       B         -       -
TR: Explosive Entry Tools Computer Based
     Training, 60A-2-1-73-2; 60A-2-1-81;
     60A-2-1 -82
25.11 Perform disposal procedures                                                                                    2b(N)        -         -                 -       -
25.12 Post Blast Analysis                                                                                                         -         -       B         -       -
25.13 Weapons of Mass Destruction                                                                                   A(N)          -         -       B         -       -
25.14 Force Protection Strategies                                                                                                 -         -       B         -       -
26 PRESIDENTIAL AND VIP SUPPORT                                                                                          -        -         -        -        -       -
  TR: DoDDs 3025.13, 5210.55; AFI 32-
  3001; TOs 60A Series; HDCM Manual;
  VIPPSA OPLAN; 60L-1-1-1-1
26.1 Identify Responsibilities                                                                                           -        -         -        -        -       -
26.1.1 Motorcade Vehicle Sweeps                                                                                          -        -         -        -        -       -
26.1.2 Building Sweeps                                                                                                   -        -         -        -        -       -
26.2 Mission Objectives                                                                                                  -        -         -        -        -       -
26.3 Credentials/Identification Pin                                                                                      -        -         -        -        -       -
      Accountability
26.3.1 Control Procedures                                                                                                -        -         -        -        -       -
26.3.2 Destruction and Disposition                                                                                       -        -         -        -        -       -
27 CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL                                                                                               -        -         -        -        -       -
  WARFARE AGENTS, EQUIPMENT,
  AND PROCEDURES
  TR: AFIs 10-2501, 32-4007, 44 Series;
  AFJMAN 32-4003; DoD 6050.5M; TOs
  1 1H Series, 14P4 Series, and 60 Series;
  Army FM 3-3, 3-9, 3-21, 3-100
27.1 Chemical and Biological Agents                                                                                      -        -         -        -        -       -
      TR: 60A-1-1-11; FM 3-3; FM 3-9; FM
      3-21; FM 3-100
27.1.1 Types                                                                                                         A (N)        -         -        -        -       -
27.1.2 Physical State                                                                                                A (N)        -         -        -        -       -
27.1.3 Physiological Action                                                                                          A (N)        -         -        -        -       -
27.1.4 Persistence                                                                                                   A (N)        -         -        -        -       -
27.2 Protective Equipment                                                                                             -           -         -        -        -       -
     TR: 1 1H2-5-1; Manufacturer's Manuals
27.2.1 Use Assigned Protective Equipment                  *                                                         2b (N)        -         -        -        -       -
        TR: Manufacturer's Manuals
27.2.2 Use Assigned Detection Equipment                   *                                                         2b (N)        -         -        -        -       -
       TR: 11H2-5-1
27.2.3 Apply First Aid and Self Aid                                                                                 1a (N)        -         -        -        -       -
27.2.4 Use Decontaminants and                                                                                       1a (N)        -         -        -        -       -
        Decontamination Equipment
27.2.5 Transport Hazardous Chemical or                                                                              1b (N)        -         -        -        -       -
       Biological Munitions
27.2.6 Dispose of Chemical or Biological                                                                            1b (N)        -         -        -        -       -
       Munitions
        TR: 60A-1-1-11




                                                           62
                                                                         3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                               2. Core Tasks                                                         Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        B      C         A        B        C         D         E           A                  B                 C
                                                                                                                          3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee     Trainer               (1)
                                                                                                              Certifier Course               (1)              (1)
                                                                                                                                       (2) Course     (2) Course       (2)
                                                                         Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials                DL            CDC                DL
28 NUCLEAR WEAPONS, EQUIPMENT,                                                                                           -         -        -       -         -        -
  AND PROCEDURES
  TR: AFIs 36-2104, 44-102, 44-110, 91
  Series; AFPD 21-2; DoDD 3150.2,
  3150.8, 4540.5, 5210.42; DoD 3150.2M,
  3150.8M, 5210.41M; DoDI 6055.8; TOs
  1 1H Series, 1 1N Series, 14P Series, 60N
  Series, and Army FM 3-3; EE730-LA-
  OMI-010/8153-PDR74
28.1 Nuclear Weapons                                                                                                   -           -        -       -         -        -
28.1.1 Identify                                           *                                                          2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
28.1.2 Hazards                                                                                                         -           -        -       -         -        -
28.1.2.1 Explosives                                                                                                   B (N)        -        -       B         -        -
28.1.2.2 Toxic                                                                                                        B (N)        -        -       B         -        -
28.1.2.3 Radiological                                                                                                 B (N)        -        -       B         -        -
28.1.3 Observe Safety Precautions/Warnings                *                                                          2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
28.1.4 Fuzing and Firing Systems                                                                                      B (N)        -        -       B         -        -
28.1.5 Render Safe and Continuation                                                                                  2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
       Procedures
28.1.6 Identify Classified Components                                                                                2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
28.1.7 Package Components                                                                                            2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
28.1.8 Disposition of Components                                                                                     2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
28.2 Use Protective Clothing and Equipment                *                                                          2b (N)        -        -       B         -        -
28.3 Foreign Nuclear Systems Technologies                                                                             A (N)        -        -       -         -        -
28.4 Nuclear Surety Program                                                                                            -           -        -       B         -        -
28.5 Bombs (Direct Support): B61-3, 4, 7,                                                                              -           -        -       -         -        -
      10, 11; B83-1)
28.5.1 Identify                                                                                                      2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
28.5.2 Hazards                                                                                                         -           -        -       -         -        -
28.5.2.1 Explosives                                                                                                   B (N)        -        -       -         -        -
28.5.2.2 Toxic                                                                                                        B (N)        -        -       -         -        -
28.5.2.3 Radiological                                                                                                 B (N)        -        -       -         -        -
28.5.3 Observe Safety Precautions/Warnings                                                                           2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
28.5.4 Fuzing and Firing Systems                                                                                      B (N)        -        -       -         -        -
28.5.5 Render Safe and Continuation                                                                                  2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
       Procedures
28.6 Missiles (Direct Support ALCM, W80)                                                                               -           -        -       -         -        -
28.6.1 Identify                                                                                                      2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
28.6.2 Hazards                                                                                                         -           -        -       -         -        -
28.6.2.1 Explosives                                                                                                   B (N)        -        -       -         -        -
28.6.2.2 Toxic                                                                                                        B (N)        -        -       -         -        -
28.6.2.3 Radiological                                                                                                 B (N)        -        -       -         -        -
28.6.3 Observe Safety Precautions/Warnings                                                                           2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
28.6.4 Fuzing and Firing Systems                                                                                      B (N)        -        -       -         -        -
28.6.5 Render Safe and Continuation                                                                                  2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
       Procedures
28.7 Reentry Vehicles (W62, W78, W87)                                                                                  -           -        -       -         -        -
28.7.1 Identify                                                                                                      2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
28.7.2 Hazards                                                                                                         -           -        -       -         -        -
28.7.2.1 Explosives                                                                                                   B (N)        -        -       -         -        -
28.7.2.2 Toxic                                                                                                        B (N)        -        -       -         -        -
28.7.2.3 Radiological                                                                                                 B (N)        -        -       -         -        -
28.7.3 Observe Safety Precautions/Warnings                                                                           2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
28.7.4 Fuzing and Firing Systems                                                                                      B (N)        -        -       -         -        -
28.7.5 Render Safe and Continuation                                                                                  2b (N)        -        -       -         -        -
       Procedures




                                                           63
                                                                          3. Certification For OJT                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                2. Core Tasks                                                           Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A        B      C         A        B        C         D          E             A                   B               C
                                                                                                                             3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee     Trainer                (1)
                                                                                                               Certifier Course                (1)              (1)
                                                                                                                                       (2)   Course     (2) Course       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials                DL             CDC                DL
 28.8 Operational and Developmental Test                                                                                    -          -         -       -       -        -
       Units
      TR: Test Plans
 28.8.1 Identify                                                                                                            -          -         -       -       -        -
 28.8.2 Hazards                                                                                                             -          -         -       -       -        -
 28.8.2.1 Explosives                                                                                                        -          -         -       -       -        -
 28.8.2.2 Toxic                                                                                                             -          -         -       -       -        -
 28.8.2.3 Radiological                                                                                                      -          -         -       -       -        -
 28.8.3 Observe Safety Precautions/Warnings                                                                                 -          -         -       -       -        -
 28.8.4 Fuzing and Firing Systems                                                                                           -          -         -       -       -        -
 28.8.5 Render Safe and Continuation                                                                                        -          -         -       -       -        -
         Procedures
 29 AIRBASE RECOVERY                                                                                                        -          -         -       -       -        -
   TR: AFDD 2-3; AFI 10-210; AFI 10-211;
   AFH 10-222, vol 1; AFPAM 10-219, vol
   5; 60A-2-1-39, EOD CONOPS
 29.1 Base Recovery                                                                                                         -          -         -       -       -        -
 29.1.1 Pre-attack                                                                                                          -          -         -       B       -        -
 29.1.2 Trans-attack                                                                                                        -          -         -       B       -        -
 29.1.3 Post-attack                                                                                                         -          -         -       B       -        -
 30 AIRCRAFT (HELICOPTER)                                                                                                   -          -         -       -       -        -
   OPERATIONS
   TR: AFTTP 3-3.8
 30.1 General Safety Rules                                                                                                  -          -         -       -       -        -
30.2 Perform Aircraft Emergency and Egress                                                                                  -          -         -       -       -        -
        Procedures on Mission Aircraft
 30.3 Cargo Loading/Unloading and                                                                                           -          -         -       -       -        -
       Utilization of Cargo Restraint Devices
 30.4 Operate Aircraft Intercom System                                                                                      -          -         -       -       -        -
 30.5 Hoist System Safety                                                                                                   -          -         -       -       -        -
 30.6 Day Rappel                                                                                                            -          -         -       -       -        -
 30.7 Night Rappel                                                                                                          -          -         -       -       -        -
 30.8 Day Rope Ladder                                                                                                       -          -         -       -       -        -
 30.9 Night Rope Ladder                                                                                                     -          -         -       -       -        -
 30.10 Day Fast Rope Insertion (FRIES)                                                                                      -          -         -       -       -        -
 30.11 Night Fast Rope Insertion (FRIES)                                                                                    -          -         -       -       -        -
 31 COMBAT SKILLS                                                                                                           -          -         -       -       -        -
 31.1 Perform Immediate 9-line Medevac                                                                                      -          -         -       -       -        -
       Procedures
 31.2 Perform Day Navigation Using Map and                  -                                                               -          -         -       -       -        -
       Compass and GPS
      TR: AFPAM 10-100
 31.3 Perform Night Navigation Using Map                    -                                                               -          -         -       -       -        -
       and Compass and GPS
      TR: AFPAM 10-100
 31.4 Operate GPS Receiver                                                                                                  -          -         -       -       -        -
 31.5 Use Personal Camouflage For Tactical                  -                                                               -          -         -       -       -        -
       Operations
 31.6 Use Cover and Concealment                             -                                                               -          -         -       -       -        -
 31.7 Use of IEU/PPE Tactical Equipment                                                                                     -          -         -       -       -        -
       and Clothing
 31.8 Use Night Vision Devices                                                                                              -          -         -       -       -        -
 31.9 Construct Improvised Shelter                                                                                          -          -         -       -       -        -
 3 1.10 Perform Small Team Formations                                                                                       -          -         -       -       -        -
 31.11 Perform Arm and Hand Signals                                                                                         -          -         -       -       -        -
 31.12 Perform Danger Area Crossings                                                                                        -          -         -       -       -        -
 31.13 Find Rally Points                                                                                                    -          -         -       -       -        -




                                                            64
                                                                           3. Certification For OJT                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks                                                           Training/Information Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B        C        A        B        C         D          E             A                   B                 C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level      7 Skill Level
                                                 3 Level 5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee     Trainer                (1)
                                                                                                                Certifier Course                (1)              (1)
                                                                                                                                        (2)   Course     (2)   Course       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials                DL             CDC                  DL
 31.14 Conduct Objective Area                                                                                                -          -         -       -         -       -
        Reconnaissance
  31.15 Perform Friendly Contact Procedures                                                                                  -          -         -       -         -       -
  3 1.16 Field Security                                                                                                      -          -         -       -         -       -
  31.16.1 Perform Safe Passage Procedures                                                                                    -          -         -       -         -       -
 31.16.2 Perform Noise, Light, and Movement                                                                                  -          -         -       -         -       -
          Discipline
  3 1.16.3 Perform Immediate Action Drills                                                                                   -          -         -       -         -       -
  3 1.16.4 Perform Live Fire Team Maneuvers                                                                                  -          -         -       -         -       -
  3 1.16.5 Perform Defensive Fire Techniques                                                                                 -          -         -       -         -       -
 3 1.16.6 Use Alert Pyrotechnics and                                                                                         -          -         -       -         -       -
          Munitions
  3 1.16.7 Perform Imminent Capture Actions                                                                                  -          -         -       -         -       -
 3 1.16.8 Sanitize or Destroy Sensitive                                                                                      -          -         -       -         -       -
          Equipment and Materials
  3 1.16.9 Perform Team Casualty Procedures                                                                                  -          -         -       -         -       -
  31.16.10 Perform Military Operations on                                                                                    -          -         -       -         -       -
           Urbanized Terrain (MOUT)
  31.17 Close Quarters Combat                                                                                                -          -         -       -         -       -
  31.17.1 Enter Structure                                                                                                    -          -         -       -         -       -
  3 1.17.2 Move in Structure                                                                                                 -          -         -       -         -       -
  3 1.17.3 Engage Targets With Weapons                                                                                       -          -         -       -         -       -
 3 1.17.4 Perform Expedient Entry and Exit                                                                                   -          -         -       -         -       -
          Procedures
 3 1.17.5 Prepare Structure For a Defensive                                                                                  -          -         -       -         -       -
          Position
 3 1.17.6 Move Casualties From Immediate                                                                                     -          -         -       -         -       -
          Battle Area
  31.18 Perform Combatives                                                                                                   -          -         -       -         -       -
  31.18.1 Defensive Hand To Hand                                                                                             -          -         -       -         -       -
 32 EOD EMERGENCY RESPONSE                                                                                                   -          -         -       -         -       -
    OPERATIONS
    TR: AFIs 10-207, 10-404, 10-801, 10-802,
    10-2501,10-2502, 32-3001, 32-4019; AFJI
    32-3002; AFMAN 32-4004; AFPAM 10-
    219, Vol 10; DoDD 3025.1, 3025.12,
    3150.5, 5100.3, 5525.5; DoD 3025.1M;
    DoDI 3150.8, 49 CFR; TOs 60 Series and
    11N Series
 32.1 Identify Requirements For Off-Base                            *                                                        -          -         -       B      2b         -
        Responses
 32.2 Identify USAF EOD Responsibilities in                                                                                  -          -         -       B         -       -
        Operations Involving Support to
       Federal, State, and Local Agencies
  32.3 Select Incident Categories                                   *                                                        -          -         -       B      2b         -
 32.4 Perform Team Chief Operations                                                                                          -          -         -       -       -         -
        TR: EOD CONOPs
     32.4.1 Unexploded Ordnance (UXO)                               *                                                        -          -         -       -         -       -
              Recovery Operations
  32.4.2 Aerospace Platforms                                        *                                                        -          -         -       -         -       -
  32.4.3 Operational Range Clearance                                *                                                        -          -         -       -         -       -
  32.4.4 IED Response                                               *                                                        -          -         -       -         -       -
  32.4.5 Chemical/Biological Exercise                               *                                                        -          -         -       -         -       -
  32.4.6 Nuclear Weapon Accident Response                           *                                                        -          -         -       -         -       -
  32.4.7 WMD/CBRN Response                                          *                                                        -          -         -       -         -       -

Note: BLK #4: Columns (1) & (2) can be relabeled to meet CF Requirements; i.e., 2 phase 3-skill level course, 5-level
QTPs.



                                                             65
                      SECTION B - COURSE OBJECTIVE LIST (COL)
                        (This section used when developing lesson plans)

4. Measurement. Measurement of each objective is indicated as follows:

   4.1. Written Test (W) - used to sample each knowledge objective and the knowledge
   components of performance objectives.

   4.2. Performance Test (P) - used under specified conditions in a formal testing mode to
   measure student accomplishment of performance objectives after the teaching-learning
   activity has been completed.

   4.3. Progress Checks (PC) - administered by the instructor during classroom or laboratory
   instruction time to assess the student’s accomplishment of knowledge or performance
   objectives.

 5. Standard. Standards for written and performance measurement are indicated in the objectives
and delineated on the individual progress checklist. Instructor assistance is provided as needed
during the progress check, and students may be required to repeat all or parts of the behavior
until satisfactory performance is attained.

 6. Proficiency Level. Most task performance is taught to the ―2b‖ proficiency level which means
the student can do most parts of the task, but does need assistance on the hardest parts of the task
(partially proficient). The student can also determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task.

 7. Course Objective List. These objectives are listed in the sequence taught by Block of
Instruction.

   7.1. Initial Skills Course. A detailed listing of the initial skills course objectives may be
   obtained by written request to 366 TRS/DO, 727 Missile Road, Sheppard AFB TX 76311-
   2254.

   7.2. 7-Skill Level Course. A detailed listing of the Craftsman course objectives may be
   obtained by written request to 366 TRS/DO, 727 Missile Road, Sheppard AFB TX 76311-
   2254.




                                                 66
                          SECTION C - SUPPORT MATERIALS

8. CerTest.

   8.1. CerTest is a program that uses computer-based evaluation to ensure skilled craftsmen are
   available to meet the Air Force's changing needs. It enhances upgrade and qualification
   training by testing and evaluating an individual's knowledge of the principles and procedures
   in each specialty.

       8.1.1. The program contains tests used to evaluate task knowledge received through
       different media such as paper products (text), videotapes, and computer–based
       programs.

       8.1.2. CerTest is also a training management tool. It can be used to find the strengths
       and weaknesses in an individual's training and experience. CerTest automatically
       records and updates all test results. The training manager can copy records to a disk so
       that an individual can bring current, accurate training information to a new unit; thereby
       helping the gaining supervisor evaluate the trainee's knowledge and experience.

   8.2. CerTest also enables unit personnel to develop site-specific tests. These custom made
   tests standardize testing on tasks unique to a specific duty station and/or assignment. The
   program contains a graphics library that may be used along with a menu driven test editor to
   develop these site-specific tests.

   8.3. CerTest also contains optional CDC pre-evaluation tools. Volume review exercises are
   available for progress checks after each volume is completed. After all volumes are
   completed in a set, the trainee may take the course review exercise before taking the final
   End of Course exam at the base training office. Commanders are encouraged to integrate
   these tools in their unit’s OJT program.

   8.4. CerTest has been adopted as the Air Force platform for future electronic CDC testing.
   The Air Force Institute for Distributive Learning (AFIADL) began using CerTest on 1 June
   2000. Currently, all CE AFSs are allowed to use AFIADL’s CerTest on installations where
   Base Test Control Facilities (TCFs) are equipped. See your UETM for further information.

   8.5. The only CerTests material for the 3E8X1 AFSC are the optional CDC pre-evaluation
   tools.




                                            67
                        SECTION D - TRAINING COURSE INDEX

 9. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the specialty.
Refer to web site https://etca.randolph.af.mil/, Education Training Course Announcement for
complete information on the Air Force in-residence courses.

10. Air Force In-Residence/Mobile Training Team (MTT) Courses.

Course Number Title Developer
L3AQR3E83 1 0E0A EOD Preliminary Course, 342 TRS, Lackland AFB, TX
JBAQN3E83 1 00NA Explosive Ordnance Disposal, Qualifying Course NAVSCOLEOD, Eglin
AFB, FL.
JCABP3E83 1 00AA Explosive Ordnance Disposal Apprentice Course, Air Force Unique, Eglin
AFB, FL.
JCACP3E871 00AA EOD 7-Level Craftsman Course 366 TRS, Eglin AFB, FL.
J5AZ03E871 00DA Joint Nuclear EOD (JNEOD) Course Defense Nuclear Weapons School,
Kirtland AFB, NM
JBAZN3E871 00NA Advanced Improvised Explosive Device (AIEDD) Defeat Course, Eglin
AFB, FL.
J5OZD32E3G 01DA Joint EOD Improvised Nuclear and Radiological Dispersal Device
Recognition Course (JEIRRC), Kirtland AFB, NM
AFIT WMGT 433 EOD Flight Chief Course Wright-Pat AFB, OH
AFIT WMGT 570 CE Superintendant Course Wright-Pat AFB, OH
Dynamics of International Terrorism SOED-DIT PDS code X9D Hurlburt Field, FL

11. Extension Course Institute (ECI) Courses.

Course Number Title Date
CDC 3E851 A EOD Journeyman Dec 96 (Deactivated           date)
CDC 3E851 B EOD Journeyman Aug 97 (Deactivated           date)
CDC 3E851 G EOD Journeyman Mar 04 (Deactivated           date)
CDC 3E851 H EOD Journeyman Mar 04 (Deactivated           date)
CDC 3E851 EOD Journeyman Aug 03 – Edit Code 2
CDC 3E851 EOD Journeyman May 07 – Edit Code 3

12. Courses Under Development/Revision.

Course Number Title
J3AQN3E83 1 01AA, EOD Preliminary Course
JCABP3E83 1 00AB, EOD Apprentice (AF Unique)
JCACP3E871 00AB, EOD Craftsman
J5AZO3E871 00EA, Air Force Improvised Explosive and Nuclear Enhancement Course
(AFIENEC), Kirtland AFB, NM




                                            68
                SECTION E - MAJCOM-UNIQUE REQUIREMENTS

13. None

Course Number Title Location
None




                               69
                         SECTION F - HOME STATION TRAINING

14. Purpose. The purpose of this section is to identify the tasks, training references, and training
sources available in support of contingency/wartime training. Prime BEEF forces will train to
meet the full range of tasks expected in the contingency environment. These training
requirements, frequencies, and sources are listed in AFI 10-210, Prime Base Emergency
Engineer Force (BEEF) Program.
    https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
    af/USAF/ep/contentView.do?contentType=EDITORIAL&contentId=c6925EC17DC7D
    0FB5E044080020E329A9&programId=
    t6925EC2B38880FB5E044080020E329A9&channelPageId=s6925EC13537D0FB5E0440
    80020E329A9 &parentCategoryId=-1900283

   14.1. Home Station Training (HST) Definition. HST is training that is conducted at the
   individual’s home station for contingency operations. The Civil Engineer Commander
   ensures training is provided and documented and arranges for subject matter experts to
   conduct training as required. HST training is knowledge-based and hands-on training. This
   includes training primarily accomplished during Prime BEEF training days. Units must make
   every effort to incorporate realism into their respective HST training programs. Field gear (to
   include primary weapons) must be used as the ―norm‖ rather than the exception whenever
   training requirements such as personal/work party security, convoy operations, defensive
   fighting positions, etc. are accomplished.

           14.1.1. Training. Personnel assigned to base level Civil Engineer units will receive
           initial and refresher training in topics as shown in AFI 10-2 10, Chapter 4. Units will
           use Readiness Training Packages (RTPs), Qualification Training Packages (QTPs),
           other multimedia training packages, videos, and AF CE standardized lesson plans to
           present the material. MAJCOMs may develop and require other training materials to
           accomplish knowledge-based training.

                   14.1.1.1. Combat Skills Training (CST). Lessons learned from operations
                   such as IRAQI FREEDOM have taught us the importance of maintaining a
                   higher level of combat readiness. Although the inclusion of combat skills-
                   focused training into HST does not fully prepare CE personnel to work in a
                   high threat combat environment, the steps taken to enhance CAT II training
                   will help elevate units to a readiness level capable of supporting safe and
                   effective operations in low to medium risk combat environments.

                   14.1.1.2 Combat Battlefield Ready Airman (CoBRA). Combat Battlefield
                   Ready Airman (CoBRA) Silver Flag Exercise Site (SFES). The CoBRA
                   course is the most critical phase in the RTW training process to transform our
                   Airmen from ―Service Support‖ to ―Battlefield Airmen‖ able to support both
                   the Air Component and Joint Force Commanders. It brings individuals and
                   teams together to form a unit prior to deploying into a high risk combat
                   environment.



                                                 70
14.2. Training References.

      14.2.1. AFI 10-210, Prime Base Engineer Emergency Force (BEEF) Program.
      Chapter four of AFI 10-2 10 identifies the Prime BEEF recurring training
      requirements. You can review this document by going to the Air Force publications
      web site.

      14.2.2. Prime BEEF Contingency and Wartime Tasks - AFPAM 10-219, Vol 10.
      The Contingency Training Guide and Task Standard (AFPAM 10-2 19, Vol 10) lists
      basic wartime skills, knowledge, and the major common contingency/wartime tasks
      that Prime BEEF teams will be required to perform. The Contingency Training Guide
      and Task Standard identify the AFSs associated with each task, required resources to
      accomplish the task, and the maximum time (under optimum conditions) expected to
      complete the task. The document also identifies the lead AFS on each task. This
      document is located on the Air Force Publications Website.

      14.2.3. AFPAM 10-219 Series. These documents assist in home station training and
      contingency responses. They replaced the AFP 93-12 series of planning documents
      and are available on the Air Force Electronic Publications Library (AFEPL).

      14.2.4. Air Force Education Training Course Announcement (ETCA).
      Superseded AFCAT 36-2212. It is located at the following URL:
      https://etca.randolph.af.mil and lists additional training/educational opportunities
      available for civil engineer personnel. This catalog contains information on formal
      education and training courses. The catalog is updated quarterly.

      14.2.5. Readiness Training Package (RTP). RTPs are lesson plans for HST lessons.
      The RTPs are intended for those personnel who teach any area of HST. The index
      and RTPs are located on the Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency (AFCESA)
      home page. The internet address for this information is:
       https ://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
      af/USAF/ep/contentView.do?contentType=EDITORIAL&contentId=c6925EC17
      DC7D0FB5E044080020E329A9&programId=
      t6925EC2B38880FB5E044080020E329A9&channelPageId=s6925EC13537D0FB
      5E044080020E329A9 &parentCategoryId=-1900283

      14.2.6. Other Documents. AFH 10-222, Bare Base Development, Bare Base Facility
      Erection, Force Protection, Mechanical Systems, Bare Base Assets, Bare Base
      Generators and other volumes in the AFH 10-222 series are used for contingency
      training and operations. The AFH series are pocket guides providing information on
      bare base systems for all AFSs. AFH 10-222, Vol 4, Air Force Environmental
      Handbook for Contingency Operations, was developed to assist the environmental
      career field (3E4X3) on environmental quality issues during contingency and training
      operations. The handbook can be used by any AFS who works closely with
      environmental issues. Visit the Air Force Publications web site to down load this
      information.


                                          71
       14.2.7. AFCESA/CEX. Maintains a comprehensive listing of audiovisual products
       that support the contingency training program. To view this listing as well as gain
       information on how to order specific audiovisual products, please consult the
       AFCESA Contingency Support page.

14.3. Ancillary Training.

       14.3.1. Team Exercise Sites All CE personnel who fill critical Unit Type Code
       (UTC) positions will receive team training at Silver Flag Exercise Sites (SFES) with
       the exception of members on headquarters staff augmentation UTCs, pavement
       evaluation UTCs, and generator repair and maintenance UTCs. There are currently
       three active SFES in the world today. They are located at Tyndall AFB, FL
       (incorporates CoBRA); Ramstein AB, Germany; and Kadena AB, Japan. Active duty
       personnel in critical UTC positions will be qualified at least every 30 months on the
       elements listed in AFI 10-2 10. The Air Reserve Components (ARC) will be qualified
       at least every 45 months.

       14.3.2. AEF/Spin-up Training. The AFCESA home page has the worldwide locator
       for the different types of training, locations, and Points of Contact (POC) for
       equipment items that maybe encountered during contingency operations.

14.4 Home Station Training. Navigate to the following link for Home Station Training
requirements affecting all Air Force Specialties. This link will identify frequency, source
material, as well as, CST and SORTS requirements. NOTE: Information is subject to
change due to emerging requirements or directed change.

https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/contentView.do?contentType=EDITORIAL&contentId=c6925EC 17DC7D
0FB5E044080020E329A9&programId=
t6925EC2B38880FB5E044080020E329A9&channelPageId=s6925EC13537D0FB5E0440
80020E329A9 &parentCategoryId=-1900283

       14.4.1. Explosive Ordnance Disposal
       2.1. Aerospace Platform Exercise
       2.2. Conventional Ordnance Exercise
       2.3. Improvised Explosive Device (IED) Exercise
       2.4. Air Base Recovery Exercise
       2.5. Broken Arrow Exercise
       2.6. Wartime Chemical/Biological Exercise (CBRN)
       2.7. Active Range Clearance Warskills




                                            72
                 SECTION G - EOD STANDARD TRAINING PACKAGE

 15. The objective of the Air Force Explosive Ordnance Disposal Standard Training Package is
to ensure we provide our customers with the best EOD capability in DoD. We accomplish this
by producing highly qualified and technically proficient EOD technicians capable of safely and
efficiently performing the EOD peacetime and wartime missions. Air Force Instruction 32-3001
prescribes the following recurring training as the minimum training requirements for all active
duty EOD personnel assigned below wing level.

   15.1. Active duty EOD personnel assigned above wing level and those assigned special duty,
   i.e. instructor duty, Silver Flag Exercise Sites, or other authorized EOD billets, should
   accomplish Group I requirements as a minimum. Accomplishment of Group II through
   Group IV is not mandatory however; individuals are highly encouraged to complete
   additional training when possible.

   15.2. Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) EOD personnel
   will accomplish training as noted by an asterisk (*) next to the line item in Groups II, III and
   IV.

16. Group I Training Requirements.

   16.1 Monthly Qualification Training. Training or operations involving the use of
   cartridge-actuated tools, demolition explosives, or pyrotechnic devices used to perform
   render-safe procedures (RSP) or general demolition using live-explosives.

17. Group II Training Requirements.

   17.1. Semiannual Training Requirements. Subjects listed in this section are taught in a
   Classroom setting followed by practical (hands on) training for all team members. During the
   classroom training tools are assembled, unique features and safety precautions briefed, and
   equipment applications and limitations discussed. Classroom instruction on procedures
   should coincide with Group IV practical exercise schedule. These are annual requirements
   for AFRC/ANG.

     Subjects
     *Electromagnetic Radiation (EMR) Grounding/Shielding Procedures
     *Explosive Properties and Effects
     *Remote Firing Device
     *General Demolition Procedures
     *Shaped Charge Procedures
     *Assigned Mine Detector
     *MK 26 Ordnance Locator
     *MK 2 Dearmer
     *MK 1 Remote Wrench
     *Protection of Personnel and Property and Collateral Damage Assessment
     *Gagging and Immobilization Procedures



                                            73
    *Locally Assigned or Supported Aircraft/Aerospace platform
    *Locally Assigned or Supported Munitions - Unit Committed Munitions Listing (UCML)
    (current flying operations apply to AFRC)
    *Percussion Actuated Non-electric (PAN) Disrupter
    *Assigned X-ray source and processor
    *Assigned robotics
    *Assigned Bomb Suit
    *C.R.E.W.
    *Citadel
    *Night Vision Goggles (NVG)
    *Fiber optic Video Scope
    Explosive/Chemical Detector
    *Improvised Explosive Device (IED) Procedures
    *Dynamic Entry Charges
    *Assigned Mask
    *Chemical Protective Over-garment (CPO)
    *Chemical/Biological Detectors
    *ADM 300
    AN-PDR 74
    *Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA)
    *Level A Protective Suit
    *Level B Protective Suit
    Handheld Radiological Monitor (HRM)
    Linear Radiological Monitor (LRM)
    AN/UDR-14
    Identifier
    *Assigned Tactical Radios
    *Tactical Global Positioning System (TGPS)
    *Map and Compass
    *Unit Mobility/Generation Procedures
    *ACES-EODIMS

18. Group III Training Requirements.

    18.1. Annual Training Requirements. Classroom training on specific items listed. (Note:
    Incorporate current threat area Ordnance Order of Battle (OOB) in foreign ordnance
    training.

    Subjects:
    Operational Risk Management (ORM)
    Unserviceable Munitions Disposal Practical (Whenever possible)
    *Thermite Burn Procedures
    *EXROD Procedures (chg to annual)
    * Large Scale Demolition Computer Based Training (CBT) - once available
    *Assigned Cameras
    *MK 38 Small Caliber Dearmer
    *MK 40 Standoff Dearmer
    *Tape and Line Procedures
                                          74
*Standoff Munitions Disrupter (SMUD) Tool
*Technical Intelligence Procedures
*US Projectiles
*US Projectile Fuzes
*US Grenades
*US Land Mines
*US Aircraft and Associated Hazards
*Egress Training—presented by qualified Egress personnel
Foreign Aircraft
US A/C Flares and Dispensers
US A/C Chaff and Dispensers
US A/C LAU-Series Launchers
US A/C Dispensed Markers
*US MK-Series and M-Series Bombs
*US Bomb Fuzes (FMU-Series), (MK-Series), (M-Series)
US Guided Bomb Units
US CBU-systems
US Guided Missiles
*US Rockets
*US Rocket Fuzes
*United States Secret Service HDCM Procedures
IND/RDD Response Procedures
*Chemical Operations and Disposal Procedures
*Air Base Recovery Procedures
Field Fabricated Dearmer
Improvised Dearmer
Foreign Bombs
Foreign Bomb Fuzes
Foreign Bomblets/Submunitions
Foreign Dispensers
Foreign Guided Missiles
Foreign Rockets
Foreign Rocket Fuzes
Foreign Projectiles
Foreign Projectiles Fuzes
Foreign Grenades
Foreign Land Mines
Nuclear Response Procedures (Broken Arrow)
AN/PDX-2 Radiacs
Stu/Ste Secure Communication Procedures
Secure Satellite Communication (SATCOM) System Procedures




                                       75
19. Group IV Training Requirements.

  19.1. Practical Training and Exercise Requirements. Team exercises allow members to
  apply knowledge learned in the classroom to formulate plans, select and use equipment,
  manage personnel, and direct operations to resolve incidents or accident situations involving
  explosive ordnance. Exercise will be conducted to enhance realism and incorporate all
  equipment and procedures associated with the scenario. Exercise participation, as an
  observer, instructor, evaluator, or participant will fulfill minimum training requirements.

  Section A - Semiannual
  *Aircraft Exercise (ARC required only annually)
  *Conventional Ordnance Exercise
  *Improvised Explosive Device (IED) Exercise (one exercise must be an CBRN IED)
  *Air Base Recovery Exercise

  Section B - Annual
  Broken Arrow Exercise
  *Wartime Chemical/Biological Exercise (CBRN - including disposal)

  Section C - Within 45 Months of graduation from Naval EOD School and within 60
  months of award of the 7-skill level
  *Active Range Clearance (ARC) on a live ordnance tactical target
  *Large Scale Demolition Practical Application


20. Group V Training Requirements.

  20.1. Supplementary Training. Ancillary or other specialized training required by directive
  to perform general or specific additional military duties. This section may also be used to
  record training conducted in excess of STP requirements.

  Subjects
  *Secure Satellite Communication System
  *Combat Life Saver Certification/Recertification
  *Arming and Use of Force
  Cargo Preparation
  Contingency Operation/Mobility Planning and Execution System (COMPES)
  *Extinguisher Training
  *Fraud, Waste, and Abuse
  *Hazardous Communication (HAZCOM) Training
  *Hazardous/Sensitive Cargo
  *HAZMAT First Responder Awareness
  *Confined Space Awareness
  Local Environmental Protection Requirements
  Pallet Build-Up
  Personnel Reliability Program (PRP), Nuclear Surety, and Two-Man Concept



                                         76
*Weapons Safety
*Robotic Maintenance Course (AFRC)
*Barrett Maintenance Course
*Post Blast Analysis
Foreign or Civilian IED or Bomb Disposal Schools/course
U.S. Army Airborne School
U.S. Army Air Assault School
Helicopter Rope Suspension Training (HRST)
Military or Civilian Weapons Advanced Skills Course
Military or Civilian Explosive Breaching Course

The following courses are required in accordance with AFI 10-2501. Register through the
following website: http://training.fema.gov/

 AF Emergency Response Operations Course




                                            77
