DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                   CFETP 3D1X3
Headquarters US Air Force                                                       Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                      01 June 2013



                     AFSC 3D1X3
                RADIO FREQUENCY (RF)
               TRANSMISSIONS SYSTEMS




                 CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
                   AND TRAINING PLAN
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                               CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                           RF TRANSMISSION
                                              AFSC 3D1X3
                                                                   Table of Contents


PART I

Preface .......................................................................................................................................................... 1

Abbreviations/Terms Explained .................................................................................................................... 2

Section A - General Information .................................................................................................................. 9
Purpose of the CFETP
Use of the CFETP
Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B - Career Field Progression and Information .............................................................................. 11
Specialty Description
       RF Transmission Apprentice/Journeyman/Craftsman (3D133/3D153/3D173)
       Cyber Systems Superintendent /Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM) (3D190/3D100)
Skill/Career Progression
       Apprentice (3-Level) Training
       Journeyman (5-Level) Training
       Craftsman (7-Level) Training
       Superintendent (9-Level) Training
       Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM) Training
       MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM)
       Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM)
Training Decisions
Community College of the Air Force Academic Programs
Career Field Path
       Education and Training Path Table

Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements........................................................................................... 22
Purpose
Specialty Qualification Requirements
      Apprentice (3-Level) Training
      Journeyman (5-Level) Training
      Craftsman (7-Level) Training
      Superintendent (9-Level) Training

Section D - Resource Constraints .............................................................................................................. 26
Purpose
Apprentice (3-Level) Training
Journeyman (5-Level) Training
Craftsman (7-Level) Training

Section E - Transition Training Guide ........................................................................................................ 27




                                                                                 i
Part II

Section A - Specialty Training Standard .................................................................................................... 28

Section B - Course Objective List .............................................................................................................. 74

Section C - Support Materials .................................................................................................................... 74
Air Force Job Qualification Standards and Air Force Qualification Training Packages

Section D - Training Course Index ............................................................................................................. 74
Purpose
Air Force In-Residence Courses
Air University Courses
Exportable Courses

Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements ............................................................................................. 75


OPR: 338th TRS/TRR
Approved By: CMSgt. Robert D. Puesey AFCFM (AF/A3CF/A6CF)
Supersedes: CFETP 3D1X3, dated 01 October 2010
Pages: 74




                                                                         ii
                                  RF TRANSMISSION
                                     AFSC 3D1X3
                      CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
PART I
Preface
1. The changing Command, Control, Communications, Computer, and Intelligence (C4I) and Air and
Space Expeditionary Forces (AEF) environments require vision, preparation, and attention to ensure
people have the right skills and tools to deliver the C4I capabilities and the support required by the war
fighter in meeting the Air Force mission of today and the vision of the future. Declining resources,
expanding diversity of mission, and ever-changing technologies in the Air Force are impacting the
availability of our most valuable resource--people. These factors will continue to exist in the future, making
it essential for the work force to be effectively and efficiently trained to perform duties within each skill level
of an Air Force Specialty (AFS). To meet the challenges of tomorrow, the Air Force must place a greater
emphasis on career field training. This RF Transmission Systems Career Field Education and Training
Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive core training document that identifies life-cycle training/education
requirements, support resources, and minimum core task requirements for the 3D1X3 specialty. The plan
is a "training road map" for the career field. It provides personnel a clear career path to success and
makes career field training identifiable, measurable, and budget defensible.
2. This CFETP is a comprehensive education and training document that identifies life cycle education and
training requirements, training support resources, and minimum core task requirements for this specialty.
The CFETP documents the career field training program and consists of two parts. Management uses both
parts in conjunction with the Training Business Area (TBA) to plan, manage, and control training within the
career field. NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty position
qualification training.
2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A explains
how everyone will use the plan; Section B identifies career field progression information, duties and
responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path; Section C associates each level with specialty
qualifications (knowledge, education, experience, training, and other); and Section D indicates resource
constraints. Some examples are funds, manpower, equipment, facilities; Section E identifies transition
training guide requirements for SSgt through MSgt.
2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A: identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and includes
duties, tasks, Training References (TRs) to support training, AETC conducted training, wartime course and
core tasks and correspondence course requirements. Section B: contains the Course Objectives List
(COL) and training standards supervisors will use to determine if airmen satisfied training requirements.
Section C: identifies available support materials. An example is a Qualification Training Package, which
may be developed to support proficiency training; Section D identifies a training course index supervisors
can use to determine resources available to support training. Included here are both mandatory and
optional courses; Section E identifies MAJCOM unique training requirements supervisors can use to
determine additional training required for the associated qualification needs. At unit level, supervisors and
trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this
plan.
3. Use of the guidance provided in this CFETP provides the foundation for effective and efficient training
for individuals in this career field at the appropriate points in their careers. This plan enables the Air Force
to train today's work force for tomorrow's jobs.




                                                         1
                                  Abbreviations/Terms Explained
This section provides a common understanding of the terms that apply to the RF Transmission Systems
Career Field and Education Training Plan.
Advanced Training (AT). A formal course of training that leads to a technical or supervisory level of an
AFS. Training is for selected airmen at the advanced level of an AFS.
Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF). The AEF is the Air Force’s methodology for organizing,
training, equipping, and sustaining rapidly responsive air and space forces to meet defense strategy
requirements. Through the AEF, consisting of enabler and tempo banded capabilities the Air Force
supports defense strategy requirements using a combination of both permanently assigned and rotational
(allocated) forces.
Air and Space Expeditionary Task Force (AETF). The AETF is the Air Force’s primary warfighting
organization and the means by which we present forces to a Joint Forces Commander (JFC). When
established, AETFs will form up under the designated Air Force component headquarters.
Air Education Training Command (AETC). Responsible for the recruiting, training and education of Air
Force personnel. AETC also provides pre-commissioning, professional military, and continuing education.
Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). Representative appointed by the respective HQ USAF Deputy
Chief of Staff or Under Secretariat to ensure that assigned Air Force specialties are trained and utilized to
support Air Force mission requirements.
Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD). The official directory for all military enlisted
classification descriptions, codes, and identifiers. Establishes the occupational structure of the Air Force
enlisted force. The occupational structure is flexible to permit enlisted personnel to specialize and develop
their skills and abilities while allowing the Air Force to meet changing mission requirements. Individual
enlisted personnel have a joint responsibility with commanders and supervisors at all levels to fully develop
their abilities consistent with Air Force needs and within the established patterns of specialization.
Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a particular job
type or duty position. Supervisors use the AFJQS to document task qualification. The tasks on AFJQSs
are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.
Air Force Qualification Training Package (AFQTP). An instructional course designed for use at the unit
to qualify or aid qualification in a duty position, program, or on a piece of equipment. It may be printed,
computer-based, or other audiovisual media.
Air Force Specialty (AFS). A group of positions, with the same title and code, that requires common
qualifications.
Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (AFTTP). The actions and methods that implement joint
doctrine that describe how forces will be employed in joint operations. They are promulgated by the
Chairman of the Joint Chief of Staff in coordination with the Combatants Commands, Services and the
JCS.
Air University Associate-to-Baccalaureate Cooperative (AU ABC). Allows Airmen to turn a Community
College of the Air Force Associates Degree into a Bachelors Degree from an accredited university. The
ABC program has established a partnership with various civilian higher-education institutions to offer four-
year degree opportunities via distance learning. The participating schools will accept all of the credits
earned by Airmen who have attained a CCAF degree and apply them to a Bachelors degree related to their
Air Force specialty.
Air University/AFCDA (Air Force Career Development Academy). The result of a reorganization of the
Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning (AFIADL); provides access to the Extension Course
Institute.
Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive core training
document that identifies: life-cycle education and training requirements; training support resources and




                                                      2
minimum core task requirements for a specialty. The CFETP aims to give personnel a clear path and instill
a sense of industry in career field training. CFETPs are officially posted at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/
Certification. A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required standards.
Certifying Official. A person assigned by the commander to determine an individual’s ability to perform a
task to required standards.
Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear and High-Yield Explosive (CBRNE) Task Qualification
Training (TQT). CBRNE TQT ensures personnel maintain proficiency in performing mission-critical tasks
in a CBRNE environment. See AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning
and Operations, and AFMAN 10-2503, Operation in a Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and
High-Yield Explosive (CBRNE) Environment for additional information/requirements.
Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM) Code. CEM codes identify all chief master sergeant positions in the
Enlisted Classification Structure. They also identify chief master sergeants who, through extensive
experience and training, have demonstrated managerial ability to plan, direct, coordinate, implement, and
control a wide range of work activity. Some managerial duties and responsibilities that are common to all
chief enlisted managers are: managing and directing personnel resource activities; interpreting and
enforcing policy and applicable directives; establishing control procedures to meet work goals and
standards; recommending or initiating actions to improve functional operation efficiency; planning and
programming work commitments, and schedules; developing plans regarding facilities, supplies, and
equipment procurement and maintenance.
Collaboration. Collaboration is the interaction among two or more individuals encompassing a variety of
behaviors including: communication, information sharing, coordination, cooperation, problem-solving, and
negotiation.
Collaborative Tools. Collaborative tools consist of various web-based technologies including advanced
white boarding, groupware, and facilitation. Collaborative capabilities assist significantly with managing
information throughout its life cycle and enable Air Force members to perform most office-oriented and
operational communication tasks from their desktops.
Command, Control, Communications, Computer, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
(C4ISR). Integrated systems of doctrine, procedures, organizational structures, personnel, equipment,
facilities, and communications designed to support a commander’s exercise of command and control
through all phases of the operational continuum. C4 systems include base visual information support
systems.
Communications-Computer Systems (C-CS). The facilities, equipment, communications, procedures,
and personnel essential to a commander for planning, directing, and controlling operations of assigned
forces pursuant to the missions assigned.
Communications-Electronics (C-E). The specialized field concerned with the use of electronic devices
and systems for the acquisition or acceptance, processing, storage, display, analysis, protection,
disposition, and transfer of information.
Computer Based Training (CBT). A forum for training in which the student learns via a computer
terminal. It is an especially effective training tool that allows the students to practice applications while they
learn.
Content Management (CM). A set of processes and technologies supporting the evolutionary life cycle of
digital information. This digital information is often referred to as content or, to be precise, digital content.
Digital content may take the form of text, such as documents, multimedia like audio or video files, or any
other file type that follows a content life cycle that requires management.
Continuation Training. Additional advanced training that exceeds the minimum upgrade training
requirements and emphasizes present or future duty assignments.
Core Competency. An integrated bundle of expert knowledge and organizational skills inherent to a
particular career field(s) which makes a disproportionate contribution to the success of providing the right




                                                        3
skills needed for military operations, anywhere anytime. It cannot be duplicated by any other organization,
and is critical for the future.
Core Task. A task AFCFMs identify as a minimum qualification requirement for everyone within an AFSC,
regardless of duty position. A core task may be specified for a particular skill level or in general across the
AFSC. Guidance for using core tasks can be found in the applicable CFETP narrative.
Course Objective List (COL). A publication derived from the initial/advanced skills Course Training
Standard (CTS), identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements and respective standards provided to
achieve a 3-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to assist in conducting graduate
evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201 Air Force Training Program.
Course Training Standard (CTS). A standard developed for all courses not governed by an STS,
including specialized training packages and computer-based training courses.
Critical Tasks. Critical Tasks are tasks that require specific training and certification above and beyond
other tasks. Tasks may be defined as critical either through AFI, Technical Orders, higher headquarters, or
at any level in the unit.
Cross Utilization Training. Training on non duty AFSC specific tasks.
Cyberspace. A global domain within the information environment consisting of the interdependent network
of information technology infrastructures, including the Internet, telecommunications networks, computer
systems, and embedded processors and controllers.
Cyberspace Operations. The employment of cyber capabilities where the primary purpose is to achieve
objectives in or through cyberspace. Such operations include computer network operations and activities to
operate and defend the global information grid (GIG).
Data Management. The process of planning, coordinating, sharing, and controlling organizations’ data
resources.
Direct Reporting Unit (DRU). Air Force subdivisions directly subordinate to the CSAF. A DRU performs a
mission that does not fit into any of the MAJCOMs. A DRU has many of the same administrative and
organizational responsibilities as a MAJCOM (Example of a DRU: USAF Academy).
Document Management (DM). The process of managing documents through their life cycle; from
inception through creation, review, storage, dissemination, and archival or deletion. Document
management can also be a database system to organize stored documents, or a search mechanism to
quickly find specific documents.
DoD Directive 8570.01 “Information Assurance Training, Certification, and Workforce Management.”
Provides guidance and procedures for the training, certification, and management of the DoD workforce
conducting Information Assurance (IA) functions in assigned duty positions
Duty Position Tasks. The tasks assigned to an individual for the position currently held. These include,
at a minimum, all core tasks that correspond to the duty position, and tasks assigned by the supervisor.
Education and Training Course Announcement (ETCA). Located at https://etca.randolph.af.mil, the
ETCA contains specific MAJCOM procedures, fund cite instructions, reporting instructions, and listings for
those formal courses the MAJCOMs or FOAs conduct or manage. The ETCA contains courses the Air
Force and reserve forces conduct or administer and serves as a reference for the Air Force, DoD, other
military services, government agencies, and security assistance programs.
Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (on-
the-job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in each skill level of a specialty.
Enterprise. The entire range of communications/networking within garrison and tactical realms to include
voice, video, data, imagery, and sensor.
Enterprise Information Management (EIM). Encompasses a set of strategies for organizational
management of all aspects of enterprise data as information assets. The proper models, data architecture,
application architecture, and integration vision enables using the “enterprise information asset” for strategic
analysis, customer-centricity, performance and productivity analytics, and personalization, eventually


                                                       4
providing a means for transitioning from an operational, line-of-business oriented application environment,
to an intelligent, learning, and agile organization.
Expeditionary Aerospace Force (EAF). The EAF concept is how the Air Force will organize, train, equip,
and sustain itself by creating a mindset and cultural state that embraces the unique characteristics of
aerospace power–range, speed, flexibility, precision–to meet the national security challenges of the 21st
Century.
Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video, or other
necessary means to supplement training.
Field Operating Agency (FOA). FOAs are subdivisions of the Air Force directly subordinate to a
headquarters US Air Force functional manager. A FOA performs field activities beyond the scope of any of
the MAJCOMs. The activities are specialized or associated with an Air Force-wide mission. (Example of a
FOA: is the Air Force Weather Agency).
Field Training. Technical, operator, and other training that either a field training detachment or field
training team conducts at operational locations on specific systems and associated direct-support
equipment for maintenance and aircrew personnel.
Functional Area Manager (FAM). The individual accountable for the management and oversight of all
personnel and equipment within a specific functional area to support operational planning and execution.
Responsibilities include, but are not limited to, developing and reviewing policy; developing, managing, and
maintaining Unit Type Codes (UTC); developing criteria for and monitoring readiness reporting; force
posturing; and analysis. At each level of responsibility (Headquarters Air Force, MAJCOM, Air Component,
FOA, DRU, and Unit), the FAM should be the most highly knowledgeable and experienced person within
the functional area and have the widest range of visibility over the functional area readiness and capability
issues.
Functional Manager. An individual assigned collateral responsibility for training, classification, utilization
and career development of personnel. AFSC Functional Managers exist at MAJCOM, NAF and base level.
Global Combat Support System–Air Force (GCSS-AF). An enterprise infrastructure program
established to develop, integrate, and deploy combat support information capabilities. The mission of
GCSS-AF is to provide timely, accurate, and trusted Agile Combat Support (ACS) information to Joint and
Air Force commanders, their staffs, and ACS personnel at all ranks and echelons with the appropriate level
of security needed to execute the Air Force mission throughout the spectrum of military operations. GCSS-
AF is the means by which ACS functional systems will be modernized and integrated to improve business
processes supported on a single robust network-centric infrastructure. In addition to integrating combat
support applications, GCSS-AF also provides core enterprise services such as a common user
presentation through the AF Portal, Enterprise Information Management (Workflow, Records Management,
Document Management, Knowledge Management, and Collaboration), and an enterprise data warehouse.
Global Command and Control System (GCCS). An automated information system designed to support
deliberate and crisis planning with the use of an integrated set of analytic tools and flexible data transfer
capabilities. GCCS will become the single C4I system to support the warfighter from foxhole to command
post.
Global Information Grid (GIG). The globally interconnected, end-to-end set of information capabilities,
associated processes, and personnel for collecting, processing, storing, disseminating and managing
information on demand to warfighters, policy makers, and support personnel. The GIG includes all owned
and leased communications and computing systems and services, software (including applications), data,
security services, and other associated services necessary to achieve Information Superiority. The GIG
supports all Department of Defense, National Security, and related Intelligence community missions and
functions (strategic, operational, tactical, and business), in war and in peace. The GIG provides
capabilities from all operating locations (bases, posts, camps, stations, facilities, mobile platforms, and
deployed sites). The GIG provides interfaces to coalition, allied, and non-DOD users and systems.
Individual Training Plan (ITP). Use Training Business Area (TBA) to document training. TBA reflects
past and current qualifications, and is used to determine training requirements. It is intended to be a



                                                       5
complete history of past training and current qualifications. Supervisors will ensure all documentation is
accurate and comprehensive.
Information Life Cycle. Typically characterized as creation or collection, processing, dissemination, use,
storage, protection and disposition. (DoDD 8000.01, Management of the Department of Defense
Information Enterprise).
Information Management (IM). The planning, budgeting, manipulating, and controlling of information
throughout its life cycle. Joint Publication 3-0 further defines IM as the function of managing an
organization’s information resources by the handling of knowledge acquired by one or many different
individuals and organizations in a way that optimizes access by all who have a share in that knowledge or a
right to that knowledge.
Information Resources Management (IRM). The process of managing information resources to
accomplish agency missions and to improve agency performance (e.g., the reduction of information
collection burdens on the public).
Initial Skills Training. A formal school course that results in an AFSC 3-skill level award for enlisted or
mandatory upgrade training to qualified officers.
Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly (but flexible) process for planning,
developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures personnel are taught in a cost
efficient way to become educated on the knowledge, skills, and abilities essential for successful job
performance.
Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS). JTRS will link the power of the Global Information Grid (GIG) to the
war fighter in applying fire effects and achieving overall battlefield superiority. By developing and
implementing an open architecture of cutting-edge radio waveform technology, multiple radio types (e.g.,
handheld, ground-mobile, airborne, maritime, etc.) are now allowed to communicate with one another. The
ultimate goal is to produce a family of interoperable, modular, software-defined radios that operate as
nodes in a network to ensure secure wireless communication and networking services for mobile and fixed
forces. These goals extend to U.S. allies, joint and coalition partners, and disaster response personnel.
Knowledge. Information from multiple domains that has been synthesized, through inference or
deduction, into meaning or understanding that was not previously known. This includes: explicit
knowledge, which can be easily articulated, codified, and stored; and tacit knowledge, which is based on
personal experience, expertise, and judgment. Tacit knowledge is more challenging to capture and share
than explicit knowledge.
Knowledge Management (KM). Handling, directing, governing, or controlling of natural knowledge
processes within an organization in order to achieve the goals and objectives of the organization.
Knowledge Operations (KO). Application and adaptation of Knowledge Management (KM) into
daily AF operations to enable information/decision superiority. KO leverages the interaction of people,
processes, and EIS technologies to capture, store, organize, share, and control tacit and explicit
knowledge, ensuring all mission execution processes have access to relevant cross-functional information
in a collaborative, timely, and contextual manner.
Knowledge Training. Training used to provide a base of knowledge for task performance. It may also be
used in lieu of task performance when the training capability does not exist. Learning gained through
knowledge rather than hands-on experience.
Major Command (MAJCOM). A MAJCOM represents a major Air Force subdivision having a specific
portion of the Air Force mission. Each MAJCOM is directly subordinate to HQ USAF. MAJCOMs are
interrelated and complementary, providing offensive, defensive, and support elements.
Master Task Listing (MTL). A comprehensive list (100%) of all tasks performed within a work center and
consisting of the current CFETP or AFJQS and locally developed AF Forms 797. Also, should include
tasks required for deployment and/or UTC requirements.




                                                      6
Master Training Plan (MTP). Employs a strategy for ensuring the completion of all work center job
requirements by using an MTL, providing milestones for task/CDC completion and prioritizes
deployment/UTC tasks, home station training tasks, upgrade tasks, and qualification tasks.
Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational survey of
tasks performed within a particular AFSC.
On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify personnel in both
upgrade (skill level award) and job qualification (duty position) training.
Proficiency Training. Additional training, either in-residence, or exportable advanced training courses, or
on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum
required for upgrade.
Qualification Training. Hands-on, task performance based training designed to qualify airmen in a
specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process and
is designed to provide skills training required to do the job.
Records Management. The planning, controlling, directing, organizing, training, promoting, and other
managerial activities involved in records creation, maintenance and use, and disposition in order to achieve
adequate and proper documentation of the policies and transactions of the Federal Government and
effective and economical management of agency operations.
Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies (such as money, facilities, time, manpower and equipment)
that preclude desired training from being delivered.
Specialized Training Package and COMSEC Qualification Training Package. A composite of lesson
plans, test material, instructions, policy, doctrine, and procedures necessary to conduct training. These
packages are prepared by AETC, validated by CYSS COMSEC policy branch, and administered by
qualified communications security (COMSEC) maintenance personnel.
Specialty Training Requirements Team. A meeting chaired by the AFCFM with MAJCOM FMs, AETC
Training Managers, Subject Matter Experts (SME), and HQ AETC Occupational Analysis Division (OAD) in
attendance. Typically held three months prior to a Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) to finalize
any CFETP changes or enlisted classification directory descriptions.
Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force specialty in
terms of tasks and knowledge that an airman in that specialty may be expected to perform or to know on
the job. Also identifies the training provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, or 7-skill level within an enlisted AFS. It
further serves as a contract between AETC and the functional user to show which of the overall training
requirements for an Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) are taught in formal schools and correspondence
courses.
Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept established and defined by authority,
custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring quantities or qualities,
establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results. It is a fixed quantity or quality.
System Training Plan (STP). A living document that explains what training is needed for a system and
how to obtain the training.
Task Module (TM). A group of tasks performed together within an AFS that require common knowledge,
skills, and abilities. TMs are identified by an identification code and a statement.
Total Force. All collective components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian elements) of the United States
Air Force.
Training Advisory Group (TAG). Chaired by the AFCFM and attended by the MAJCOM, selected DRU’s,
and FOA functional managers. The TAG sets training goals and priorities, reviews training programs, and
evaluates emerging training technologies. The group meets, as required, to prioritize training product
development.
Training Business Area (TBA). A web-based training application that provides Air Force war fighters with
global, real-time visibility into qualifications, certifications and training status of communications



                                                        7
professionals. TBA supports base, wing, and work center training management activities by automating
business processes and capabilities to eliminate paper-based practices. The system centralizes
management of training task data, provides user access to CFETPs/JQSs, and increases security through
a single AF Portal log on.
Training Capability. The capability of a training setting to provide training on specified requirements,
based on the availability of resources.
Training Planning Team (TPT). Comprised of the same personnel as a U&TW, TPTs are more intimately
involved in training development and the range of issues examined is greater than in the U&TW forum.
Training Requirements Analysis (TRA). A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFSC to be included
in the training decision process.
Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-the-job, field
training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.).
Unit Type Code (UTC). A five-character alphanumeric code identifying a specific force package of
personnel and/or equipment. The UTC is the means for linking logistics and manpower details within a unit
type and is used to communicate force data. The UTC represents a wartime capability designed to fill a
valid contingency requirement.
Upgrade Training. Training that leads to the award of a higher skill level.
Utilization and Training Pattern. A depiction of the training provided to and the jobs performed by
personnel throughout their tenure within a career field or AFS. There are two types of patterns: 1) Current
pattern, which is based on the training provided to incumbents and the jobs to which they have been and
are assigned; and 2) Alternate pattern, which considers proposed changes in manpower, personnel, and
training policies.
Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum of the AFCFM, MAJCOM Functional Managers,
subject matter experts (SME), and AETC training personnel that determines career ladder training
requirements. This is an executive decision meeting following the Specialty Training Requirements Team
meeting.
Wartime Tasks. Those tasks which must be taught when courses are accelerated during a wartime
environment. In response to a wartime scenario, these tasks will be taught in the 3-level course in a
streamlined training environment. These tasks are only for those career fields that still need them applied
to their schoolhouse tasks.
Workflow. A series of steps necessary for the initiation, tracking, and delivery of services or outputs with
the capability to cut across existing or future organizational boundaries. Furthermore, web-based workflow
products allow electronic coordination, staffing, and task management of documents and files. They are
relational to an electronic version of the Staff Summary Sheet (SSS) and other AF/DoD forms used for
routing/collection of information. Automation provides the capability to suspense and track correspondence
through the workflow process and provides action officers and document originators status on their
packages. Provides users the capabilities to comply with structured electronic workflow processes and the
flexibility to create/develop ad hoc workflow courses of actions. Future use of standardized EIM tools will
enhance usability and eliminate legacy methods.




                                                      8
Section A - General Information
1. Purpose of the CFETP. This CFETP provides the information necessary for AFCFMs, MAJCOM
Functional Managers (MFM), commanders, training managers, supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop,
manage, and conduct an effective and efficient career field training program. The plan outlines the initial
skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency training those individuals in AFSC 3D1X3 should
receive in order to develop and progress throughout their careers. Initial skills training is the AFS specific
training an individual receives upon entry into the AF or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the
3-skill level. This training is provided by the 338th Training Squadron (TRS) at Keesler AFB, MS.
Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, Career Development
Course (CDC) completion, and correspondence courses required for award of the 5-, 7-, or 9-skill level.
Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an airman in a
specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It
is designed to provide the performance skills and knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training is
formal specialty training used for selected airmen. Proficiency training is additional training, either in-
residence or exportable advanced training courses, or on-the-job training provided to personnel to
increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP has several
purposes, some of which are:
1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field-training
program. Also, ensures that established training is provided at the appropriate point in an individual's
career.
1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education and training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.
1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and the training
medium.
1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact implementation of the desired career field training
program.
2. Use of the CFETP. The CFETP is maintained by the 3D1XX Air Force Career Field Manager
(AFCFM), AF/A3CF/A6CF. MAJCOM FMs and AETC review the plan annually to ensure currency and
accuracy and forward recommended changes to the AFCFM. Using the list of courses in Part II, they
determine whether duplicate training exists and take steps to eliminate/prevent duplicate efforts. Career
field training managers at all levels use the plan to ensure a comprehensive and cohesive training
program is available for each individual in the career ladder.
2.1. AETC training personnel develop/revise formal resident and exportable training based upon
requirements established by the users and documented in the STS. They also develop procurement and
acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified training.
2.2. MAJCOM FMs ensure their training programs complement the CFETP for mandatory initial skill and
upgrade requirements. They also identify the needed AFJQSs/AFQTPs to document unique upgrade and
continuation training requirements. Requirements are satisfied through OJT, resident training, contract
training, or exportable courseware/courses. MAJCOM-developed training to support this AFSC must be
included in this plan.
2.3. 81 TRSS/TSQ Qualification Training Flight (Q-Flight) personnel develop training packages
(AFJQSs/AFQTPs) based on requests submitted by the MAJCOMs and according to the priorities
assigned by the AFCFM.
2.4. Unit level training managers and supervisors manage and control progression through the career
field by ensuring individuals complete the mandatory training requirements for upgrade specified in this
plan and supplemented by their MAJCOM. The list of courses in Part II is used as a reference for
planning continuation or career enhancement training.
2.5. Submit recommended improvements/corrections to the 338 TRS/TRR Training Manager.




                                                       9
3. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP. The AFCFM is the approval authority. MAJCOM
representatives and AETC training personnel coordinate on the career field training requirements. The
AETC training manager initiates an annual review of this document by AETC and MAJCOM functional
managers to ensure the CFETP’s currency and accuracy by using the list of courses in Part II to eliminate
duplicate training.




                                                   10
Section B - Career Field Progression and Information
4. Specialty Description. The following career field description supplements the AFECD.
4.1. RF Transmission Systems Apprentice/Journeyman/Craftsman (3D133/3D153/3D173).
4.1.1. Specialty Summary: Deploys, sustains, troubleshoots, and repairs standard radio frequency
wireless, line-of-sight, beyond line-of-sight, wideband, ground-based satellite, and encryption
transmission devices in a fixed and deployed environment. Included are multiple waveform systems
operating across the spectrum, keying and signal devices; telemetry and instrumentation systems.
Establishes and maintains circuits, configures and manages system and network connectivity. Related
DoD Occupational Subgroup: 110100.
4.1.2. Duties and Responsibilities:
4.1.2.1. Performs/supervises wireless radio and satellite systems and equipment maintenance activities.
Oversees work in progress and reviews completed repairs for sound maintenance practices. Establishes
requirements for maintenance equipment, support equipment, tools, and spare parts. Requisitions,
accounts for, and turns in supplies and material. Interprets inspection findings and determines adequacy
of corrective action. Reviews and ensures compliance with maintenance management publications and
procedures. Identifies maintenance problem areas and recommends corrective action. Recommends
methods to improve equipment performance and maintenance procedures. Evaluates justification and
practicability of proposed modifications. Develops and enforces safety standards for ground RF system
maintenance activities.
4.1.2.2. Inspects wireless radio/satellite communications activities. Determines equipment operational
status. Serves on teams to evaluate transmission systems activities. Interprets inspection findings
submitted by other inspecting activities, and initiates corrective action. Determines adequacy of
corrective action. Checks installed and repaired components for compliance with technical publications.
4.1.2.3. Resolves installation, repair, overhaul, and modification problems associated with
communications equipment. Employs orbiting communication satellite, line-of-sight, and tropospheric
scatter techniques. Conducts tests to restore and maintain systems. Uses anti-jam equipment and
techniques to neutralize effects of communication jamming. Uses layout drawings, schematics, and
pictorial diagrams to solve maintenance problems. Analyzes construction and operating characteristics of
equipment to determine source of malfunction. Performs intricate alignment and calibration procedures to
ensure maximum operating efficiency. Determines repair procedures necessary to correct defective
equipment.
4.1.2.4. Installs ground radio, satellite, and telemetry communications equipment. Consults layout
drawings to ensure equipment is properly positioned. Checks equipment for serviceability prior to
installation. Assembles, connects, secures, and interconnects components such as transmitters, power
supplies, and antenna assemblies. Tests installed equipment for proper assembly of components and
compliance with technical orders. Places in operation and tunes, adjusts, and aligns components to
obtain maximum operating efficiency. Identifies and locates Radio Frequency interference sources.
4.1.2.5. Deploys and activates mobile and transportable transmission equipment. Refers to plans and
equipment specifications to conduct site and equipment surveys, and establishes equipment systems
interface. Unpacks, inspects, and positions communications equipment; erects antennas; and
interconnects communications facilities.
4.1.2.6. Performs preventive maintenance on communications systems and related equipment. Inspects
equipment at specified intervals to determine operational status. Replaces defective components.
Performs operational checks. Updates maintenance data collection records and systems to document
actions completed.
4.1.2.7. Repairs, overhauls, and modifies communications and related equipment. Isolates malfunctions
using system checking procedures, required test equipment, analyzing voltage and waveform
measurements, schematic diagrams, and equipment operating characteristics. Repairs equipment,
including transmitters, receivers, transceivers, and related equipment. Tunes and adjusts components.
Adjusts, aligns, and calibrates equipment for maximum operating efficiency. Fabricates and connects




                                                  11
various types of antenna systems and transmission lines. Tests repaired components using bench
mockups and related test equipment.
4.1.2.8. Maintains inspection and maintenance records. Posts entries on maintenance and inspection
records. Records meter readings and other pertinent data in equipment logs. Completes maintenance
data collection forms.
4.1.2.9. Manages, supervises, and performs planning and implementation activities. Manages
implementation and project installation and ensures architecture, configuration, and integration
conformity. Develops, plans, and integrates base communications systems. Serves as advisor at
meetings for facility design, military construction programs and minor construction planning. Evaluates
base comprehensive plan and civil engineering projects. Monitors status of base civil engineer work
requests. Performs mission review with customers. Controls, manages, and monitors project milestones
and funding from inception to completion. Determines adequacy and correctness of project packages
and amendments. Monitors project status and completion actions. Manages and maintains system
installation records, files, and indexes. Evaluates contracts, wartime, support, contingency and exercise
plans to determine impact on manpower, equipment, and systems.
4.2. Cyber Systems Superintendent (3D190)
4.2.1. Specialty Summary. Manages system analysis and design, programming, systems operation, and
maintenance, resource management and security management. Directs activities for installing, maintaining,
repairing, overhauling, deploying, and modifying cyberspace systems and equipment platforms to include:
voice, data, video client devices, and network infrastructure systems, ground radar, radio, meteorological,
navigation, satellite, intrusion detection, space systems, telemetry, microwave, and cryptographic. In
addition, manages and directs network and electronic warfare operations in garrison and at deployed
locations by performing duties to develop, sustain, and enhance network and electromagnetic capabilities to
defend national interests from attack and to create effects in the cyberspace domain to achieve national
objectives. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 110100.
4.2.2. Duties and Responsibilities:
4.2.2.1. Plans and organizes maintenance activities. Plans and supervises system installation and evaluates
facilities layout and performance standards. Designs and develops organizational structures and determines
equipment, training, and supplies required for systems implementation and support. Executes operational
plans to ensure positive control of assigned forces. Evaluates operational readiness of communications
equipment, network devices, sensors, intrusion detection, and related support equipment.
4.2.2.2. Directs activities responsible for system analysis and design, programming, operations and
maintenance, security, systems management, technical support and resource management. Implements
and interprets policies, directives and procedures.
4.2.2.3. Directs maintenance activities. Directs personnel employed in siting, deploying, inspecting,
adjusting, removing, replacing, and repairing communications systems and related equipment. Prepares and
analyzes reports encompassing siting, deploying, maintaining, installing, repairing and removing
communications systems and related equipment. Coordinates activities and resolves common problems.
Directs overhaul and repair of communications systems and related equipment. Ensures work standards are
maintained. Determines extent and economy of repair, including disposition of malfunctioning equipment.
4.2.2.4. Inspects and evaluates maintenance activities for compliance with directives. Evaluates, rates and
prepares reports on activity effectiveness. Recommends and implements corrective action for improved
methods and procedures. Evaluates effectiveness of equipment usage, systems performance, customer
service, supplies, and system scheduling, processing, and maintenance.
4.2.2.5. Supervises maintenance functions. Resolves problems with installing, maintaining, repairing, and
overhauling systems and equipment. Checks systems and equipment for proper siting, installation, and
serviceability. Establishes local maintenance procedures and policies. Performs research and development
of new systems and equipment.
4.2.2.6. Establishes training requirements. Establishes training programs to meet local knowledge and
certification requirements.



                                                     12
4.2.2.7. Plans, programs, and develops budget inputs to ensure resource availability for operational
requirements.
4.2.2.8. Manages plans, implementation, and development functions. Helps functional users define
requirements. Supervises functional user requirements translation into automated systems capabilities.
Organizes teams that use methodologies to meet mission requirements. Supervises test and evaluation
efforts to determine performance. Organizes and participates in mission implementation and conversion.
Ensures continued interface between functional users and programming and operations personnel. Ensures
compliance with standards for systems documentation.
4.3. Chief Enlisted Manager. This specialty “caps” at the Chief Master Sergeant level with those
specialties that came up through the Cyber Support Systems Specialist (3D1XX) career ladders.
Personnel attaining the rank of CMSgt are assigned broad ranging duties in directing and managing
diverse communication functions.
4.4. MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM) for Cyber Systems. (AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training
Program; AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officers and Airmen); Air Force Enlisted
Classification Directory). Appointed by the MAJCOM Director of Communications (A6) or equivalent.
Advises the MAJCOM/A6 and staff on 3D1XX utilization and training issues. Serves as the MAJCOM
voting representative during career field Utilization and Training Workshops. Assists in gathering inputs
and data to complete enlisted grade allocation for Career Progression Group (CPG) reviews. Provides
guidance to subordinate units on 3D1XX personnel issues. Assists with the dissemination of information
regarding Air Force and career field policies, plans, programs, and procedures to subordinate units.
Assists in identifying qualified subject matter experts to help with the development of Specialty
Knowledge Tests (SKT) and the Career Development Course (CDC). Acts as the primary MAJCOM
reviewer on CDC training and classification waiver request packages. Coordinates on all MAJCOM
3D1XX staffing and manpower issues.
4.5. Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) for the Cyber Systems Career Field. (AFPD 36-26,
Total Force Development; AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program; AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military
Personnel (Officers and Airmen); Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory). Appointed by the Air Force
Chief, Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer (SAF/A6). Advisor to the SAF/A6 on all
matters affecting the Cyber Systems career fields. Communicates directly with MFMs and AETC Training
Managers to disseminate Air Force and career field policies and program requirements. Ensures
development, implementation, and maintenance of the CFETP. Serves as the chairperson for the U&TW
and uses it as a forum to determine and manage career field education and training requirements, as they
apply to mission needs. Possesses final authority to waive CFETP requirements, including CDCs.
Assists AETC training managers and course supervisors with planning, developing, implementing, and
maintaining all AFSC-specific training courses. Assists in the development of AFSC-related manpower
standards.




                                                     13
5. Skill/Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to
superintendent skill levels play an important role in the Air Force's ability to accomplish its mission. It is
essential that everyone involved in training do their part to plan, manage and conduct an effective training
program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP and the 3D1X3 Education and Training Path
table will ensure individuals receive viable training at appropriate points in their careers.




6. Training Decisions. This CFETP was developed to encapsulate an entire spectrum of training
requirements for the RF Transmission career field, using a building block approach (simple to complex).
Included in this spectrum was the strategy of when, where, and how to meet the training requirements.
The strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce duplication of training and eliminate a disjointed
approach to training.
6.1. Proficiency Training. This training is job qualification for an assigned duty position. Additional
qualification training becomes necessary when personnel transfer to another duty position, the unit
mission changes, a new personnel program comes on board, or any time changes in techniques or
procedures occur.
6.1.1. The 81 TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight) develops AFJQSs/AFQTPs to support tasks relating to
communications-electronics and communications-computer systems, functions and duties. Completion of
AFJQSs/AFQTPs is mandatory by duty position for personnel in upgrade or qualification training.
6.1.2. CDC development is restricted to five volumes, two hundred pages each. The first volumes will be
common to all 3D1XX AFSCs, followed by the respective AFSC-specific volumes. The following table
outlines the 5-level CDC content for 3D1X3.




                                                     14
                                                  3DX5X
   VOLUME 1                      Support to the Cyberspace Mission
   VOLUME 2                      Information Technology Concepts
                                                  3D153
   VOLUME 1                      General Subjects
   VOLUME 2                      Advanced Communications Concepts
   VOLUME 3                      Wideband and Satellite Communications

6.2. Seven-Level Upgrade Training Requirements: Completion of the E6ACW3DX7X 01AA Cyberspace
Career Advancement Course is mandatory.
6.3. Nine-Level training requirements. Completion of E6ACW3DX9X 00AA Cyberspace Superintendant
Course. Mandatory for Qualification Training but NOT required prior to upgrade to 9-Level, per CFM.
6.4. Commercial Certifications. Below are some available commercial certifications for 3D1X3
technicians. An “X” in the DANTES column indicates that testing may be completed at the base
education office. Tuition Assistance (TA) pays for only one certification during an entire career. See the
local base education office for more information. The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has licensing
and certification benefits that can be used, including the Montgomery and Post 9/11 GI Bill. Visit
http://www.gibill.va.gov/pamphlets/lcweb.htm for more information.




                                                    15
                 Certifications                                 Criteria                             Website                  DANTES
    Electronics Technician Association
    (ETA)
    • Associate (CET)
    • Journeyman (CET)                                     • Experience
                                                                                   http://www.eta-i.org/                        X
        Certified Satellite Installer                      • Written Exam
             Antenna Endorsement
             C & Ku Band Endorsement
             Commercial Endorsement
             SMATV Endorsement
    National Association of Radio and
    Telecommunications Engineers                           • Education
    (NARTE)                                                • Experience                                                         X
                                                                                   http://www.narte.org/h/telecom.asp
    • Junior Telecommunications Tech                       • References
    • Senior Telecommunications Tech                       • Written Exam
    • Master Telecommunications Tech
    Federal Communications                                                         http://wireless.fcc.gov/comm
                                                                                                                                X
    Commission (FCC) General Radio                         • Written Exam          operators/index.htm?job=pg
    Operator’s License (GROL)
    IA Technical Level I                                   • Education             AF e-Learning Website
                                                                                                                                X
             A+                                            • Experience            Certification exam voucher
             Network +                                     • Written Exam          available from CYCC
    IA Technical Level II                                  • Education             AF e-Learning Website
                                                                                                                                X
    IA Management Level I                                  • Experience            Certification exam voucher
             Security +                                    • Written Exam          available from CYSS
    IA Technical Level III                                 • Education             AF e-Learning Website
                                                                                                                                X
    IA Management Level II & Level III                     • Experience            Certification exam voucher
             CISSP                                         • Written Exam          available from CYSS
    Project Management Institute                                                   http://www.pmi.org/Certification/Pr
                                                           • Education
     Project Management Professional                                              oject-Management-Professional-
                                                           • Experience
        (PMP)                                                                      PMP.aspx
                                                           • Written Exam


7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Academic Programs. Enrollment in CCAF occurs
upon completion of basic military training. CCAF provides the opportunity for all enlisted members to
obtain an Associate in Applied Science degree. In order to be awarded the CCAF degree, all academic
requirements must be completed before the student separates from the Air Force, retires, or is
commissioned as an officer. In addition to the associate degree program, CCAF offers the following:
7.1. CCAF Instructor Certification. The College offers the CCAF Instructor Certification to instructors
teaching full time in a CCAF affiliated school. To qualify, instructors must complete a 3 semester hour
Instructor Methodology course, a 12 semester hour Teaching Internship, have one year teaching
experience from date of Teaching Internship completion, hold an associate or higher degree, complete at
least 1,000 hours of documented practical experience teaching a CCAF course(s), and be recommended
by their commander/commandant.
7.2. The Electronic Systems Technology (4VHP) program applies to this career fields.
7.2.1. Degree Requirements: Individuals must hold the 5-skill level at the time of program completion.
                                                                                                             Semester hours
Technical Education ................................................................................................. 24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies ....................................................... 6
Physical Education ................................................................................................... 4
General Education ................................................................................................... 15
Program Electives .................................................................................................... 15
                                                                                                              Total 64



                                                                     16
7.2.2. Technical Education (24 semester hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of Technical Core
subjects and courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours will be applied from Technical
Core/Technical Elective subjects and courses.
7.2.3. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 semester hours): Professional military education
and/or civilian management courses. See CCAF General Catalog for application of civilian management
courses.
7.2.4. Physical Education (4 semester hours): Satisfied upon completion of basic military training.
7.2.5. General Education (15 semester hours): Courses must meet the criteria for application of courses
to the General Education requirement and be in agreement with the definitions of applicable General
Education subjects/courses as outlined in the CCAF General Catalog.
7.2.6. General Education Mobile (GEM): GEM is a partnership between CCAF and civilian academic
institutions to offer general education courses to meet CCAF A.A.S. degree requirements. Courses are
offered via distance learning which reduces CCAF educational impact of deployments, PCS and family
commitments.
7.2.7. Program Elective (15 semester hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education; Leadership,
Management, and Military Studies; or General Education courses, including natural science courses
meeting General Education requirement application criteria. Six semester hours of CCAF degree
applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied.
7.3. The Professional Manager Certification (PMC): The College offers a professional credential that
formally recognizes an individual’s advanced level of education and experience in leadership and
management, as well as professional accomplishments. The program provides a structured professional
development track that supplements Enlisted Professional Military Education (EPME) and Career Field
Education and Training Plan (CFETP).
7.3.1. The PMC is primarily designed for Air Force SNCO’s. However, any enlisted Airmen who meet all
program requirements may be nominated and awarded the PMC. Once an individual retires, separates
or is commissioned, they are no longer eligible for the PMC.
7.3.2. PMC Requirements:
7.3.2.1. Award of 7 skill-level (Craftsman) or higher
7.3.2.2. Complete ALS or equivalent EPME (In-residence or correspondence)
7.3.2.3. Complete NCOA or equivalent EPME (In-residence or correspondence)
7.3.2.4. Complete SNCOA or equivalent EPME (In-residence or correspondence)
7.3.2.5. Complete 30 semester hours of leadership/management coursework.
7.3.2.5.1. At least 6 semester hours of leadership/management course work must be completed from an
accredited college or university by testing credit (CLEP/DSST/Excelsior).
7.3.2.5.2. Civilian courses must emphasize the fundamentals of leadership and/or management of
human resources. Examples: Principles of Management, Personnel Management, Human Resource
Management, Principles of Supervision, and Organizational behavior
7.3.2.6. A copy of the civilian college or university transcript reflecting completed leadership/management
courses is required.
7.3.2.7. Credit by earned completion of EPME is applied toward the 30 semester hour requirement.
7.3.3. Awarded CCAF degree
7.3.4. Recommended for certification by the unit commander or commandant.
7.4. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill certification is
awarded for the primary occupational specialty. The College uses a competency based assessment




                                                        17
process for trade skill certification at one of four proficiency levels: Apprentice, Journeyman, Craftsman
(Supervisor), or Master Craftsman (Manager). All are transcribed on the CCAF transcript.
7.5. See the current CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science in
Electronic Systems Technology. The catalog is available at your education office, or from
http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/.
7.6. Additional off-duty education is highly encouraged. Individuals desiring to become an AETC
instructor should be actively pursuing an associate degree. A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain
CCAF’s accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.




                                                     18
8. Career Field Path. The following summarizes career progression and personnel allocations across
the career ladder. 3D0XX and 3D1XX personnel maintain their individual AFSC identifiers through the
rank of MSgt. Upon promotion to SMSgt, 3D0X1/3D0X2/3D0X3/3D0X4 merge to become a 3D090;
AFSCs 3D1X1/3D1X2/3D1X3/3D1X4/3D1X5/3D1X6/3D1X7 merge to become a 3D190. Specific
demographic information is available on the Web at http://wwa.afpc.randolph.af.mil/demographics/.




                                                 19
                                                        3D1X3, RF TRANSMISSION
                                                     EDUCATION AND TRAINING PATH


                                EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                                        AVERAGE SEW ON TIME
                                    REQUIREMENTS                                                                 AND COMMENTS
BASIC MILITARY TRAINING SCHOOL
APPRENTICE TECHNICAL SCHOOL (3-SKILL LEVEL) ...... Mandatory                                                Amn ...................... 6 months
UPGRADE TO JOURNEYMAN (5-SKILL LEVEL)                                                                       A1C ...................... 16 months
Minimum 12 months OJT training (9 months for retrainees). Complete
5-Level CDCs. ......................................................................... Mandatory
Specific AFJQSs/AFQTPs for equipment at assigned location by duty                                           SrA ....................... 3 years
position. ................................................................................... Mandatory     Earliest ................. 28 Months
                                                                                                            HYT ...................... 8 years
CS Management and Generic AFJQSs/AFQTPs for various unit level
duties. ...................................................................................... Mandatory
AETC Supplemental training courses as determined by MAJCOM
................................................................................................ Optional
Community College of the Air Force Associates Degree
................................................................................................ Optional
AIRMAN LEADERSHIP SCHOOL (ALS)                                                                              TRAINER: Must meet trainer
Attendance is limited to SSgt selectees or those attaining 48 months                                        eligibility requirements as per
Total Active Federal Military Service (TAFMS) and who have not been                                         AFI 36-2201
selected for promotion to SSgt. Completion is mandatory before
assuming the rank of SSgt. ANG/AFRC may complete by
correspondence course. .......................................................... Mandatory
UPGRADE TO CRAFTSMAN (7-SKILL LEVEL)                                                                        SSgt ..................... 4.45 years
Minimum rank of SSgt. Minimum 12 months OJT training (6 months for                                          Earliest ................. 3 years
retrainees). Completion of 7-level CDCs, if available.                                                      HYT ...................... 15 years
Completion of AFQTP 3DXXX-232A, Communications and Information
Work Center Supervisor's Handbook.                                                                          TSgt...................... 10.58 years
                                                                                                            Earliest ................. 5 years
Must be 7-level to sew on TSgt. .............................................. Mandatory                    HYT ...................... 20 years
Completion of the E6ACW3DX7X 01AA Cyberspace Career
Advancement Course…………………………………………….Mandatory                                                                CERTIFIER: Must meet
                                                                                                            certifier eligibility requirements
CS Management and Generic AFJQSs/AFQTPs for various unit level                                              as per AFI 36-2201
duties. ...................................................................................... Mandatory
AETC Supplemental training courses as determined by MAJCOM
................................................................................................ Optional
Community College of the Air Force Associates Degree
................................................................................................ Desired




                                                                               20
                                                      3D1X3, RF TRANSMISSION
                                                   EDUCATION AND TRAINING PATH


                               EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                                           AVERAGE SEW ON TIME
                                   REQUIREMENTS                                                                    AND COMMENTS
NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICER ACADEMY (NCOA).                                                                       MSgt ..................... 15.58 years
Completion is mandatory before assuming the rank of MSgt.                                                     Earliest ................. 8 years
................................................................................................ Mandatory    HYT ...................... 24 years

Active duty attendance is limited to TSgt, MSgt Selectee, or MSgt.
ANG/AFRC TSgt or MSgt may attend in-residence or may complete by
correspondence course.
Community College of the Air Force Associates Degree
.............................................................................................Highly Desired

USAF SENIOR NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICER ACADEMY (SNCOA)                                                           SMSgt .................. 19.76 years
                                                                                                              Earliest ................. 11 years
Attendance is limited to TSgt (correspondence course only), MSgt,
                                                                                                              HYT ...................... 26 years
SMSgt. Completion is mandatory before assuming the rank of SMSgt.
................................................................................................ Mandatory
SNCOA Correspondence Course ........................................... Optional
ANG/AFRC may complete by correspondence course. ANG/AFRC
MSgts may attend in-residence............................................... Mandatory
E6ACW3DX9X 00AA CYBERSPACE SUPERINTENDENT COURSE
Attendance is limited to SMSgt selectees. Mandatory for Qualification
Training but NOT required prior to upgrade to Nine Level, per CFM.
UPGRADE TO SUPERINTENDENT (9-SKILL LEVEL)
Awarded upon sew on of SMSgt. ............................................ Mandatory
CS Management and Generic AFJQSs/AFQTPs for various unit level
duties. ...................................................................................... Mandatory
CHIEF MASTER SERGEANT                                                                                         CMSgt .................. 22.30 years
                                                                                                              Earliest ................. 14 years
                                                                                                              HYT ...................... 30 years

NOTE 1: Published sew-on times are Air Force averages. Refer to the Air Force Personnel Center’s
homepage to determine career field specific information:
http://www.afpc.randolph.af.mil/promotions/index.asp.
NOTE 2: See Part II, Sections C and D for a list of AFJQSs/AFQTPs and AETC supplemental training.
NOTE 3: All core tasks must be completed prior to upgrade.




                                                                             21
Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements
9. Purpose. The various skill levels in the career field are defined in terms of tasks and knowledge
requirements for each skill level in the RF Transmission career field of the Cyber Support Systems career
ladder. They are stated in broad, general terms and establish the standards of performance. Core tasks,
knowledge items, and skill requirements for this specialty are identified in the STS, COL, CDCs,
AFJQSs/AFQTPs, etc. Completion of the mandatory 3-level skill awarding course, CDCs, and applicable
AFJQSs/AFQTPs define the Air Force core tasks for this specialty.
10. Specialty Qualification Requirements.
10.1. Apprentice (3-Level) Training.

 KNOWLEDGE               Electricity and radio theory, including transistors, solid-state components, and
                         digital techniques applying to ground RF communications and related
                         equipment maintenance; and interpretation of management information data,
                         technical orders, blueprints, wiring diagrams, and schematic drawings.
 EDUCATION               Completion of high school is mandatory.
                         Additional courses in physics and mathematics is desirable.
 TRAINING                Completion of the Apprentice RF Transmissions Systems Specialist course,
                         E3ABR3D133 01AA (PDS Code OWR) (See Part II, Section B for Course
                         Objective List)
 EXPERIENCE              None required
 OTHER                   For award and retention of AFSC 3D133, must maintain an Air Force Network
                         License according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network Users and
                         Certifying Network Professional and AFMAN 33-282, Computer Security
                         (COMPUSEC).
                         Eligibility for a Secret security clearance according to AFI 31-501, Personnel
                         Security Program Management, is mandatory for award and retention of this
                         skill level.
                         Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and
                         Standards.
 IMPLEMENTATION          Attendance at the Apprentice RF Transmissions Systems Specialist course is
                         mandatory for award of the 3-skill level unless waived by the AFCFM.




                                                   22
10.2. Journeyman (5-Level) Training.

 KNOWLEDGE             All 3D133 knowledge qualifications apply to the 3D153 requirements
                       Completion of the 3D153 Career Development Course
 TRAINING              No mandatory AETC training courses are required for upgrade.
 EXPERIENCE            Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3D133
                       Experience performing; testing, tuning, adjusting, maintaining, or repairing
                       ground RF communications and related equipment and using specialized test
                       equipment
                       Completion of all STS core tasks
                       Completion of applicable AFJQSs/AFQTPs
                       Completion of all local tasks assigned for the duty position
 OTHER                 For award and retention of AFSC 3D153, must maintain an Air Force Network
                       License according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network Users and
                       Certifying Network Professional and AFMAN 33-282, Computer Security
                       (COMPUSEC).
                       Eligibility for a Secret security clearance according to AFI 31-501, Personnel
                       Security Program Management, is mandatory for award and retention of this
                       skill level.
                       Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and
                       Standards.
 IMPLEMENTATION        Entry into formal journeyman upgrade training is accomplished once
                       individuals are assigned to their first duty station.
                       Qualification training is initiated anytime individuals are assigned duties for
                       which they are not qualified.
                       Use CDCs, CBTs and AFJQSs/AFQTPs concurrently to obtain the necessary
                       qualification for refresher and cross-utilization training.




                                                 23
10.3. Craftsman (7-Level) Training.

 KNOWLEDGE             All 3D153 knowledge qualifications apply to the 3D173 requirements
                       Completion of Communications and Information Work Center Supervisor's
                       Handbook
 TRAINING              Completion of the E6ACW3DX7X 01AA Cyberspace Career Advancement
                       Course is mandatory.
 EXPERIENCE            Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3D153
                       Experience performing or supervising functions such as siting, installing,
                       repairing, overhauling, or modifying ground RF equipment or intrusion
                       detection systems and using test equipment
                       Completion of all STS core tasks
                       Completion of applicable AFJQSs/AFQTPs
                       Completion of all local tasks assigned for the duty position
 OTHER                 For award and retention of AFSC 3D173, must maintain an Air Force Network
                       License according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network Users and
                       Certifying Network Professional and AFMAN 33-282, Computer Security
                       (COMPUSEC).
                       Eligibility for a Secret security clearance according to AFI 31-501, Personnel
                       Security Program Management, is mandatory for award and retention of this
                       skill level.
                       Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and
                       Standards.
 IMPLEMENTATION        Entry into OJT is initiated when individuals obtain the necessary rank and skill
                       level.
                       Qualification training is initiated anytime an individual is assigned duties for
                       which they are not qualified.
                       Use CDCs and AFJQSs/AFQTPs concurrently to obtain the necessary
                       qualification for refresher and cross-utilization training.




                                                 24
10.4. Superintendent (9-Level) Training.

 KNOWLEDGE                Techniques and procedures of systems analysis and design
                          Interpretation of wiring and logic diagrams
                          Project Management
                          Software methodology
                          System operation and maintenance
                          System and equipment capability, capacity, and logic
                          Performance measurement, security, and resource management
 TRAINING                 Completion of E6ACW3DX9X 00AA Cyberspace Superintendant Course.
                          Mandatory for Qualification Training but NOT required prior to upgrade to 9-
                          Level, per CFM.
 EXPERIENCE               Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3D17X
                          Managing or directing functions such as installing, maintaining, repairing, or
                          modifying the various systems and related equipment of the feeder specialties.
 OTHER                    For award and retention of AFSC 3D190, must maintain an Air Force Network
                          License according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network Users and
                          Certifying Network Professional and AFMAN 33-282, Computer Security
                          (COMPUSEC).
                          Eligibility for a Top Secret security clearance according to AFI 31-501,
                          Personnel Security Program Management, is mandatory for award and
                          retention of this skill level.
 IMPLEMENTATION           Entry into OJT is initiated when individuals are selected for the rank of SMSgt.
                          Qualification training is initiated anytime individuals are assigned duties for
                          which they are not qualified.

10.5. Training Sources.
10.5.1. AFSC specific training–338 TRS, Keesler AFB, MS at https://etca.randolph.af.mil/.
10.5.2. CDCs 3D153 are available for upgrade purposes through the unit training manager or online at
Air University. For individual qualification and cross-utilization training, CDCs are ordered through the unit
training office.
10.5.3. AFJQSs/AFQTPs are Air Force publications and are mandatory for use by personnel in upgrade
or qualification training. They are developed by the 81 TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight), Keesler AFB, MS and may
be downloaded from https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=20946 . Procedures for
requesting development of AFJQSs/AFQTPs are contained in AFI 33-154, Air Force On-the-Job Training
Products for Cyberspace Support Enlisted Specialty Training Enlisted Specialty Training.
AFJQSs/AFQTPs are listed in Part II of this CFETP.




                                                     25
Section D - Resource Constraints
11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints that preclude optimal/desired training
from being developed or conducted, including information such as part numbers, national stock numbers,
number of units required, cost, manpower, etc. Included are narrative explanations of each resource,
constraint, and an impact statement describing what effect each constraint has on training. Finally, this
section includes actions required, OPR and target completion date. Resource constraints will be, at a
minimum, reviewed and updated annually.
12. Apprentice (3-Level) Training.
12.1. Constraints: None
12.1.1. Impact N/A
12.1.2. Resources Required N/A
12.1.3. Action Required N/A
12.1.4. OPR/Target Completion Date N/A
13. Journeyman (5-Level) Training.
13.1. Constraints: None
13.1.1. Impact. N/A
13.1.2. Resources Required N/A
13.1.3. Action Required N/A
13.1.4. OPR/Target Completion Date N/A
14. Craftsman (7-Level) Training.
14.1. Constraints: None
14.1.1. Impact N/A
14.1.2. Resources Required N/A
14.1.3. Action Required N/A
14.1.4. OPR/Target Completion Date N/A
15. Superintendent (9-Level) Training.
15.1. Constraints: None
15.1.1. Impact N/A
15.1.2. Resources Required N/A
15.1.3. Action Required N/A
15.1.4. OPR/Target Completion Date N/A
15. Superintendent (9-Level) Training.
15.1. Constraints: None
15.1.1. Impact N/A
15.1.2. Resources Required N/A
15.1.3. Action Required N/A
15.1.4. OPR/Target Completion Date N/A




                                                   26
Section E - Transition Training Guide
There are currently no transition training requirements. This area is reserved.




                                           27
 PART II

 Section A - Specialty Training Standard
 1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC for the 3-level class
 beginning 20130603
 2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201 this STS:
 2.1. Lists in column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common tasks, knowledge,
 and technical references (TR) necessary for airman to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level.
 Column 2 (Core Tasks) identifies by skill level, specialty-wide training requirements. NOTE: Core tasks
 are minimum task training requirements for upgrade.
 2.2. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and knowledge
 training requirements. Use automated training management systems to document technician
 qualifications, if available. For initial certification or transcribing documentation complete the columns in
 accordance with AFI 36-2201.
 2.3. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the proficiency to
 be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the task/knowledge and the career
 knowledge provided by the correspondence course. See the Air University Catalog maintained at
 http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl for current CDC listings.
 2.4. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the tasks, knowledge and proficiency levels
 referenced in paragraph 2. Columns are marked with a proficiency code to indicate subjects taught. An
 X in the proficiency code column indicates a lack of student man years and instructor resources.
 Trainees without prerequisites specified in Education and Training Course Announcement (ETCA) cannot
 be expected to meet proficiency levels indicated.
 2.5. Becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job training when placed in AF Form 623,
 Individual Training Record folder and used according to AFI 36-2201.
 2.6. Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion System
 (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKT) are developed at the Airmen Advancement Division by senior
 NCOs with extensive practical experience in their career fields. The tests sample knowledge of STS
 subject matter areas judged by test development team members as most appropriate for promotion to
 higher grades. Questions are based upon study references listed in the Enlisted Promotion References
 and Requirements Catalog. Individual responsibilities are listed in chapter 1 of AFI 36-2605, Air Force
 Military Personnel Testing System. WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard or Air Reserve
 Forces.
 3. Recommendations. Comments and recommendations are invited concerning the quality of AETC
 training. A Customer Service Information Line (CSIL) has been installed for the supervisors'
 convenience. For a quick response to concerns, call our Training Feedback Hotline at DSN 597-4566,
 fax us at DSN 597-3790, or e-mail us at 81trg-tget@keesler.af.mil. Reference this STS and identify the
 specific area of concern (paragraph, training standard element, etc).


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE

OFFICIAL                                            MICHAEL J. BASLA, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                                    Chief, Information Dominance and
                                                    Chief Information Officer


Attachments:
  1. IT Fundamentals Course Training Standard (CTS)
  2. Specialty Training Standard (STS) 3D1X3



                                                       28
                                                                                                               IT Fundamentals CTS




                                                            PREFACE

NOTE 1: Dashed items in this CTS are not part of the original CTS created at the March 2009 IT
Fundamentals conference however, they are the specific objectives taught in the IT Fundamentals course
designed to meet the CTS requirements.
NOTE 2: Unless otherwise stated, students may be allowed two assists from the instructor and still
successfully achieve the proper level of proficiency. An instructor assist is anytime an instructor must
intercede to provide guidance to a student which leads to a satisfactory completion of the objective or to
prevent the student from continuing in a manner that will lead to an unsatisfactory conclusion, safety
violation, or damage to equipment.
NOTE 3: All 3-level tasks will be trained if a wartime surge is ordered.

                                                   Proficiency Code Key
                              Scale
                              Value
                                              Definition: The individual
                                   1          Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most
                                              of the task. (extremely limited)
                                   2          Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (partially
Task Performance                              proficient)
Levels                             3          Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work.
                                              (competent)
                                   4          Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others
                                              how to do the task. (highly proficient)
                                   a          Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (nomenclature)

                                   b          Can determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task. (procedures)
*Task Knowledge
Levels                             c          Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is
                                              needed. (operating principles)
                                   d          Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (advanced
                                              theory)
                                   A          Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (facts)

                                   B          Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about
**Subject Knowledge                           the subject. (principles)
Levels                             C          Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject.
                                              (analysis)
                                   D          Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject.
                                              (evaluation)
                                                          Explanations
*   A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a
    specific task. (Example: b and 1b)
** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific
   task, or for a subject common to several tasks. This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency
   training is provided in the course or CDC.
X This mark is used alone in course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.
NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during wartime.




                                                                 29
                                                                                     IT Fundamentals CTS
                                                                                        PROFICIENCY
                                                                                          CODE

1. ELECTRONICS SUPPORT SUBJECTS
   1.1. Safety                                                                                    B
   1.2. First Aid                                                                                 A
   1.3. Personal and Family Countermeasures (CM)                                                  A
2. DIGITAL NUMBERING SYSTEMS (Internal Data Representation)
   2.1. Conversions
   2.1.1. Binary                                                                                  B
   2.1.2. Hexadecimal                                                                             B
   2.1.3. Binary Coded Decimal                                                                    A
   2.2. Calculate Hexadecimal Numbers                                                             X
3. BASIC COMPUTER FUNDAMENTALS
   3.1. Communications/Network Protocols
   3.1.1. Connection Oriented Communication                                                       A
   3.1.2. Connectionless Oriented Communication                                                   A
   3.1.3. International Standards Organization (ISO) Open Systems Interconnect (OSI) Model        A
   3.1.4. TCP/IP                                                                                  A
   3.1.5. Department of Defense (DoD) Standards Protocol                                          A
   3.1.6. IPV4/IPV6                                                                               A
   3.1.7. Ports (IP)                                                                              A
   3.2. Network Theory/Components
   3.2.1. Components
   3.2.1.1. Component Principles                                                                  B
   3.2.1.2. Central Processing Unit (CPU)                                                         A
   3.2.1.3. Computer memory                                                                       A
   3.2.1.4. Input/output (I/O) Devices                                                            A
   3.2.1.5. Storage Devices                                                                       A
   3.2.1.6. Peripherals (Printers, FAX, Scanners, etc)                                            A
   3.2.2. Network Types
   3.2.2.1. Wired ( LAN, WAN, MAN)                                                                A
   3.2.2.2. Wireless                                                                              A
   3.2.2.3. Virtual Private Network (VPN)                                                         A
   3.2.2.4. Video Teleconference                                                                  A
   3.2.2.5. Topologies (Star, Ring, Bus, Hybrid, etc)                                             A
   3.3. Data Terminal Equipment/Data Communications Equipment (DTE/DCE)
   3.3.1. Modems                                                                                  A
   3.3.2. Converters                                                                              A
   3.3.3. Gateways                                                                                A
   3.3.4. Switches                                                                                A
   3.3.5. Bridges/Routers                                                                         A
   3.3.6. Encryption/COMSEC Devices (Data and Voice)                                              A




                                                   30                                        Attachment 1
                                                                                         IT Fundamentals CTS
                                                                                            PROFICIENCY
                                                                                              CODE

    3.3.7. Communications Mediums                                                                        A
    3.3.8. Multiplexing                                                                                  A
    3.3.8.1. Multiplexers                                                                                A
    3.3.8.2. Wave Division Multiplexing                                                                  A
    3.3.8.3. Time Division Multiplexing                                                                  A
    3.4. Software
    3.4.1. Operating Systems (UNIX, Windows, LINUX, etc.)                                                A
    3.4.2. Applications (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, SharePoint, etc.)                                      A
    3.4.3. Infectious and Malicious Software                                                             A
4. CRYPTOLOGY (Bound & Unbound)
    4.1. Bulk Encryption                                                                                 A
    4.2. Information Encryption Techniques                                                               A
    4.3. Separation Requirements                                                                         A
5. NETWORK FAULT ISOLATION TECHNIQUES
    5.1. Network Error Detection                                                                        1a
    5.2. Network Error Correction                                                                       1a
    5.3. Network Flow Control                                                                           1a
    5.4. Transmission Impairments                                                                       1a
    5.5. Network Management Concepts and Responsibilities                                                B
6. CYBER SECURITY
    6.1. Cyber Vulnerabilities                                                                           A
    6.2. Vulnerability Preventative Measures                                                             A
    6.3. Identity Management                                                                             A
    6.4. Wireless Network Security                                                                       A
7. COMMUNICATIONS AND INFORMATION PROFESSIONALS
    7.1. Organizations                                                                                   A
    7.2. Communications Competencies                                                                     A
    7.3. Expeditionary Communications                                                                    X
8. RISK MANAGEMENT (RM) TR: AFIs 90-802, 91-203, 91-302
    8.1. RM                                                                                              A
9. PUBLICATIONS AND DIRECTIVES TR: AFINDs 5 & 8; AFIs 33-Series
    9.1. Department of Defense (DoD)                                                                     X
    9.2. Air Force                                                                                       X
    9.3. Commercial/Vendor publications                                                                  X
    9.4. DISA Publications                                                                               X
    9.5. Technical Orders (TO)                                                                           X
    9.6. Standard Installation Practices Technical Order (SIPTO)                                         X
    9.7. Enterprise Information Architecture (EIA)/ Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA)        X
    9.8. Military Standard (MIL STD)                                                                     X
10. LEGAL/ETHICS TR: USC TITLE 10, 18 and 50; Joint Information Doctrine (Joint Pub 3-13); AF
Information Operations Doctrine 3-13; Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)



                                                   31                                               Attachment 1
                                                                                          IT Fundamentals CTS
                                                                                              PROFICIENCY
                                                                                                CODE

     10.1. US Codes (e.g. Titles 10, 15, 18, 32, 50) (e.g. Constitutional Authority, legal aspects of        A
rules of engagement, homeland defense, Posse Comitatus, UN Charter Paradigm, Schmidt Analysis)
    10.2. Rules of Engagement (ROE)
    10.2.1. Policy                                                                                           A
    10.2.2. Security Tools                                                                                   A
    10.2.3. Cyber Management Ethics                                                                          A
    10.2.4. System Monitoring                                                                                A
    10.3. Special Data Protection (i.e. sensitive personnel information)                                     A
11. C4I SECURITY TR: ACP 122; AFIs 10-712, 33-129, 33-102, 33-332, 33-138; AFKAG-1&2;
AFMAN 33-326; DOD 5200.1-R
    11.1. Operations Security (OPSEC) TR: AFI 10-701; AFPD 10-7
    11.1.1. Definition                                                                                       X
    11.1.2. Relationship of OPSEC to other security programs                                                 X
    11.1.3. Vulnerabilities                                                                                  X
    11.1.4. Critical Information                                                                             X
    11.2. Information Security TR: AFI 31-401; AFPD 31-4, 33-2
    11.2.1. Information safeguards
    11.2.1.1. Unclassified
    11.2.1.1.1. Privacy Act (PA)                                                                             A
    11.2.1.1.2. For Official Use Only (FOUO)                                                                 A
    11.2.1.1.3. Sensitive Unclassified                                                                       A
    11.2.1.2. Classified                                                                                     A
    11.3. Communications Security (COMSEC) TR: AFI 31-401; AFPDs 33-2 and 31-4
    11.3.1. Definition                                                                                       A
    11.3.2. Vulnerabilities                                                                                  A
    11.3.3. Safeguarding Information                                                                         A
    11.4. Emission Security (EMSEC) TR: AFI 33-203 (V1), AFPD 33-2
    11.4.1. Definition                                                                                       A
    11.4.2. Notifications                                                                                    A
    11.4.3. Vulnerabilities                                                                                  A
    11.4.4. Protected Distribution System (PDS)                                                              A
    11.5. Computer Security (COMPUSEC) TR: AFIs 33-200; AFMAN 33-282; AFPD 33-2
    11.5.1. Definition                                                                                       A
    11.5.2. Vulnerabilities                                                                                  A
    11.6. Physical Security TR: AFI 31-101; AFPD 31-1
    11.6.1. Definition                                                                                       A
    11.6.2. Secure Area Access Management                                                                    X
    11.6.3. Facility Security Requirements                                                                   X
    11.6.4. Classified Material Control
    11.6.4.1. Storage                                                                                        A
    11.6.4.2. Transport                                                                                      A



                                                    32                                                  Attachment 1
                                                                                     IT Fundamentals CTS
                                                                                        PROFICIENCY
                                                                                          CODE

    11.6.4.3. Handling                                                                              A
    11.6.4.4. Destruction                                                                           X
    11.6.4.5. Classified Waste                                                                      X
    11.7. Information Assurance TR: AFI 33-200
    11.7.1. Definition                                                                              A
    11.7.2. Threats and Vulnerabilities                                                             A
    11.7.3. Protective Measures                                                                     A
    11.8. Information Conditions (INFOCON)                                                          A
12. AIR AND SPACE EXPEDITIONARY FORCE (AEF)
    12.1. Equipment (e.g. LOGDET)                                                                   X
    12.2. Personnel (e.g. MANFOR)                                                                   X
13. ENTERPRISE SYSTEMS TR: AFI 13 Series
    13.1. Defense Information Systems Network (DISN)                                                A
    13.2. Defense Switched Network (DSN)                                                            A
     13.3. Non-secure Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNET) TR: DISACs 370-P120-               A
3, 310-P70-73, 310-P70-74, 310-P70-75
     13.4. Secure Networks
    13.4.1. Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET)                                       A
    13.4.2. Defense Red Switch Network (DRSN)                                                       A
14. ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
    14.1. Communication Squadron                                                                    X
    14.2. Combat Communications Squadrons                                                           X
    14.3. Expeditionary Communications Squadron                                                     X
    14.4. Air Force Network Operations (AFNETOPS)                                                   X
    14.5. Air Force Network Operations Center (AFNOC)                                               X
    14.6. Integrated Network Operations Security Center (INOSC)                                     X
    14.7. Enterprise Service Unit (ESU)                                                             X
    14.8. Area Processing Center (APC)                                                              X
    14.9. Enterprise Service Desk (ESD)                                                             X
15. CYBER OPERATIONS
    15.1. Structure                                                                                 A
    15.2. Missions
    15.2.1. Offensive                                                                               A
    15.2.2. Defensive                                                                               A
    15.2.3. Exploitation                                                                            A
    15.2.4. Other (e.g. Influence Operations (IFO), Electronic Warfare (EW))                        A
    15.3. Network Warfare Fundamentals
    15.3.1. Control Systems (e.g. Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) networks)        A
    15.3.2. Tactical Data Link (TADL) networks                                                      A
    15.3.3. Network Exploitation Capabilities                                                       A
    15.4. Cyber Capabilities



                                                   33                                          Attachment 1
                                                                                           IT Fundamentals CTS
                                                                                               PROFICIENCY
                                                                                                 CODE

    15.4.1. Affects on adversary decision makers                                                         A
    15.4.2. Role of cyber operations in achieving military and national goals and objectives             A
    15.4.3. Information Superiority                                                                      X
    15.4.4. Role of Air Force Network Operations Center (AFNOC)                                          X
    15.4.5. Role of Integrated-Network Operations and Security Centers (I-NOSCs)                         X
    15.4.6. Role of Network Control Center (NCC)                                                         X
    15.4.7. Role of an Air Operations Center (AOC)                                                       X
    15.4.8. Ops Defensive Measures                                                                       A
    15.4.9. Ops Capabilities                                                                             A
16. DIGITAL LOGIC CIRCUITS
    16.1. Theory
    16.1.1. Gates                                                                                        B
    16.1.2. Flip Flops                                                                                   B
    16.2. Digital to Analog (DA) and Analog to Digital (AD) Converter Theory                             B
    16.3. Metric Notation
    16.3.1. Calculate Powers of Ten                                                                      B
    16.3.2. Electrical Prefixes                                                                          B
17. USE TEST EQUIPMENT
    17.1. Analog Multimeter                                                                              B
    17.2. Digital Multimeter                                                                            2b
    17.3. Oscilloscope                                                                                  2b
    17.4. Signal/Function Generator                                                                     2b
    17.5. Line Tester                                                                                   2b
    17.6. Electrostatic Discharge (ESD) Control                                                          A
18. BASIC COMMUNICATIONS THEORY
    18.1. Fiber Optics                                                                                   A
    18.2. Transmission Lines                                                                             B
    18.3. Data Bus                                                                                       B
    18.4. Antennas                                                                                       B
    18.5. Waveguides                                                                                     A
    18.6. Transmitters
    18.6.1. Frequency Modulation                                                                         B
    18.6.2. Amplitude Modulation                                                                         B
    18.7. Receivers
    18.7.1. Frequency Modulation                                                                         B
    18.7.2. Amplitude Modulation                                                                         B
    18.8. Modulation Techniques
    18.8.1. Amplitude Modulation (AM)                                                                    B
    18.8.2. Frequency Modulation (FM)                                                                    B
    18.8.3. Phase Modulation                                                                             B
    18.8.4. DAMA                                                                                         B



                                                    34                                              Attachment 1
                                                                IT Fundamentals CTS
                                                                  PROFICIENCY
                                                                    CODE

   18.8.5. Frequency Hopping                                                 A
   18.8.6. Time – Division (CDMA and GSM)                                    A
   18.9. Electromagnetic Effects (EMP/EMI)                                   B
   18.10. AM Receiver Signals
   18.10.1. Measure Radio Frequency (RF)                                     1a
   18.10.2. Measure Intermediate Frequency (IF)                              1a
   18.10.3. Monitor Audio Frequency (AF)                                     1a
   18.10.4. Measure Local Oscillator (LO) Output                             1a
19. TYPES OF WIRING/CABLING
   19.1. Assemble Solderless Connectors
   19.1.1. Crimped Connection                                                2b
   19.1.2. Coaxial Connector                                                 2b
   19.1.3. Multipin Connector                                                2b
20. BASIC CIRCUITS
   20.1. Direct Current (DC)
   20.1.1. Theory                                                            B
   20.1.2. Calculations                                                      B
   20.2. Alternating Current (AC)
   20.2.1. Theory                                                            B
   20.2.2. Calculations                                                      B
21. BASIC CIRCUIT COMPONENTS
   21.1. Resistors
   21.1.1. Theory                                                            B
   21.1.2. Color Code                                                        B
   21.1.3. Troubleshoot                                                      2b
   21.2. Inductors
   21.2.1. Theory                                                            B
   21.2.2. Troubleshoot                                                      2b
   21.3. Capacitors
   21.3.1. Theory                                                            B
   21.3.2. Troubleshoot                                                      2b
   21.4. Resistive-Capacitive-Inductive (RCL) Circuits Theory
   21.4.1. Basic                                                             A
   21.4.2. Resonant                                                          A
   21.4.3. Frequency Sensitive Filter                                        A
22. POWER SUPPLY CIRCUITS
   22.1. Theory
   22.1.1. Rectifiers                                                        B
   22.1.2. Filters                                                           B
   22.1.3. Voltage Regulators                                                B




                                                   35                   Attachment 1
                                                IT Fundamentals CTS
                                                  PROFICIENCY
                                                    CODE

   22.2. Troubleshoot Power Supply                           2b
23. ELECTROMAGNETIC DEVICES
   23.1. Transformers
   23.1.1. Theory                                            B
   23.1.2. Troubleshoot                                      2b
   23.2. Relays and Solenoids
   23.2.1. Theory                                            A
   23.2.2. Troubleshoot                                      X
24. SOLID STATE DEVICES
   24.1. Diodes
   24.1.1. Theory                                            B
   24.1.2. Troubleshoot                                      2b
   24.2. Bipolar Junction Transistors
   24.2.1. Theory                                            B
   24.2.2. Troubleshoot                                      2b
   24.3. Special Purpose Device Theory
   24.3.1. Zener Diode                                       B
   24.3.2. Light Emitting Diode (LED)                        A
   24.3.3. Liquid Crystal Display (LCD)                      A
   24.3.4. Integrated Circuits (IC)                          A
   24.3.5. Field Effect Transistor (FET)                     A
   24.3.6. Operational Amplifiers                            X
25. TRANSISTOR AMPLIFIER CIRCUITS
   25.1. Theory                                              B
   25.2. Stabilization                                       A
   25.3. Coupling                                            A
26. WAVE GENERATING CIRCUITS
   26.1. Theory
   26.1.1. Oscillators                                       A
   26.1.2. Multivibrators                                    A
   26.1.3. Waveshaping Circuits                              A




                                           36           Attachment 1
                                                                                                  STS 3D1X3



                                                  PREFACE
NOTE 1: Users are responsible for annotating technical references to identify current references pending
STS revision. Locate current Air Force publications at:
      DOD Issuances and OSD Administrative Instructions at http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/
      Air Force publications at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
      AFSSIs at https://private.afnic.af.mil/ia/PolicyDocuments.cfm
      DISA Circulars and Instructions at https://www.disa.mil/about/policy-publication-information
      Technical Orders (TO) at https://www.my.af.mil/etims/ETIMS/index.jsp
      Online Reference Ware and CBTs: https://www.my.af.mil/faf/FAF/fafHome.jsp (Under AF e-
      Learning)
NOTE 2: Knowledge and/or performance tasks are defined in the AFJQS. AFJQS items set the standard
for qualification and certification and are mandatory for use in conjunction with this STS when applicable
to the duty position.
NOTE 3: AFQTP 3DXXX-232A, Communications and Information Work Center Supervisor's Handbook is
mandatory for upgrade to the 7-skill level in all 3DXXX career fields.
NOTE 4: All objectives are trained during wartime.
NOTE 5: Commanders, supervisors and trainers will use TBA to track and manage training for all 3DXXX
personnel.
NOTE 6: When an AFJQS is loaded into TBA, AFJQS task numbering will vary from the STS. The
numbering scheme is defined by your work center specific master training plan.
NOTE 7: Third person certification is not required for all Cyber Support Specialist personnel. However,
members (to include civilians and contractors) assigned to crew positions are still required position
certification in accordance with Stan/Eval procedures.
NOTE 8: In the event of data network or computer system failure, courses are authorized to use
alternative methods of instruction to fulfill this STS element.
NOTE 9: Unless otherwise stated in the objective, the student may be allowed two assists from the
instructor and still successfully achieve the proper level of proficiency. An instructor assist is defined as
anytime an instructor must intercede to provide guidance to a student which leads to a satisfactory
completion of the objective or to prevent a student from continuing in a manner which will lead to an
unsatisfactory conclusion, safety violation, or damage to the equipment. Successful students have
performed the task to the satisfaction of the course; however, they may not be capable of meeting the
field requirements for speed or accuracy.
NOTE 10: All equipment related objectives are performed by following procedures from technical orders,
technical manuals, or student instructional material developed by the training facility.
NOTE 11 Senior NCO’s in the 3DXXX AFSCs are not required to have an Individual Training Plan (ITP)
with the following exceptions: personnel in upgrade training status, or performing equipment maintenance
as part of primary duties. Unit Commanders can require MSgt's with UTC tasks to have an ITP.




                                                      37                                         Attachment 2
                                                                                                                              STS 3D1X3




                                                        PROFICIENCY CODE KEY
-             SCALE     DEFINITION: The individual
              VALUE
                1       Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (EXTREMELY LIMITED)
Performance
   Levels




                2       Can do most parts of the task. Needs help only on hardest parts. (PARTIALLY PROFICIENT)
    Task




                3       Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (COMPETENT)
                4       Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task. (HIGHLY PROFICIENT)
                a       Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (NOMENCLATURE)
Knowledge
  Levels




                b       Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (PROCEDURES)
  *Task




                c       Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed. (OPERATING PRINCIPLES)
                d       Can predict, isolate and resolve problems about the task. (ADVANCED THEORY)
                A       Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (FACTS)
Knowledge
 **Subject

   Levels




                B       Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (PRINCIPLES)
                C       Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (ANALYSIS)
                D       Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (EVALUATION)
                                                                   Explanations
*      A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific
       task. (Example: b and 1b)
**     A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for
       a subject common to several tasks. This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in
       the course or CDC.
(-)    This mark is used alone in Proficiency Codes Course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in
       resources.
NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during wartime.
(-)    When this code is used in the Core & Wartime Tasks Column it indicates that the qualification is a local determination.
(5) When this code is used in the Core & Wartime Tasks Column it indicates the CFM has mandated this task as a core 5-level
    requirement. The training to satisfy this requirement is either provided through OJT, CBTs, CDCs, or a combination.
(7) When this code is used in the Core & Wartime Tasks Column it indicates the CFM has mandated this task as a core 7-level
    requirement. The training to satisfy this requirement is either provided through OJT, CBTs, CDCs, or a combination.
(5*) When this code is used in the Core & Wartime Tasks Column it indicates the CFM has selected this task as core 5-level tasks if loaded
     to the individual’s ITA. This code indicates that training to satisfy this requirement is normally provided through OJT.
(7*) When this code is used in the Core & Wartime Tasks Column it indicates the CFM has selected this task as core 7-level tasks if loaded
     to the individual’s ITA. This code indicates that training to satisfy this requirement is normally provided through OJT.




                                                                        38                                                  Attachment 2
                                                                                                         STS 3D1X3




                                     THIS BLOCK IS FOR IDENTIFICATION PURPOSES ONLY

                                                Personal Data – Privacy Act of 1974

PRINTED NAME OF TRAINEE (Last, First, Middle Initial)                      INITIALS (Written)   LAST 4 OF SSAN



                        PRINTED NAME OF TRAINER AND CERTIFYING OFFICIAL AND WRITTEN INITIALS


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I

N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I




                                                               39                                       Attachment 2
                                                                                                                   STS 3D1X3



                                                              3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                            INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                     2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                  &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
                                                A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                 WARTIME
                                      TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                         Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                               DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS
1. RF TRANSMISSION
SYSTEMS CAREER FIELD
TR: AFH 33-337; AFIs 10-401,
33-115 Vol 1, 2, & 3, 33-150, 36-
2101; 3D1X3 CFETP
1.1. Structure                          -                                                                  A         A         -         -
1.2. Progression within Air Force
                                        -                                                                  A         B         -         -
Specialty Code 3D1X3
1.3. Read CFETP 3D1X3, Part I           5                                                                  -         -         -         -
1.4. Air Force Specialty Code
3D1X3
1.4.1. Explain duties of AFSC           5                                                                  A         A         -         -
1.4.2. Explain responsibilities of
                                        5                                                                  A         A         -         -
AFSC
1.4.3. Explain AFSC core
                                        -                                                                  A         A         -         -
competencies
1.4.4. Explain Qualifications           -                                                                  -         -         -         -
1.4.5. Describe Customer
                                        5                                                                  -         -         -         -
relations
1.4.6. Describe associated
                                        5                                                                  A         A         -         -
career family AFSCs
2. SAFETY/RISK
MANAGEMENT (RM)
TR: AFIs 90-802, 91-203, 91-302
2.1. RM                                 5                                                                  -         A         -         -
2.2. AFOSH Standards for AFSC           5                                                                  A         A         -         -
2.3. Hazards of the AFSC                5                                                                  A         A         -         -
2.4. Practice Safety Precautions
2.4.1. Maintenance actions              -                                                                  -         -         -         -
2.4.2. Energized equipment              -                                                                  -         -         -         -
2.4.3. High voltage equipment           -                                                                  -         -         -         -
2.4.4. Radio Frequency (RF)
hazard environments
TR: AFI 91-203 chap 30.15; TO           5                                                                  B         B         -         -
31Z-10-4; command and local
directives
2.4.5. Compressed gas cylinders
TR: AFI 91-203 chap 40; TO
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
42B5-1-2; command and local
directives
2.4.6. Hazardous materials
TR: AFI 91-203 chap 22, 31, 33,         -                                                                  -         -         -         -
36, 40, & 43; TO 00-25-213
2.5. Safety and Personal
Protective Equipment
TR: AFI 91-203 chap 14; TO 00-
25-245; command and local
directives
2.5.1. Use                              -                                                                  -         -         -         -
2.5.2. Maintain                         -                                                                  -         -         -         -
2.5.3. Inspect                          -                                                                  -         -         -         -




                                                                   40                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                   STS 3D1X3


                                                              3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                            INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                     2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                  &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                 WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                      TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                         Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                               DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS
2.6. Perform general
                                        5                                                                  -         -         -         -
housekeeping
2.7. Fire Protection Procedures
TR: AFI 91-203 chap 6;
command and local directives
2.7.1. Describe classes of
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
extinguishers
2.7.2. Describe fire protection
procedures for electronic               -                                                                  -         -         -         -
equipment
2.7.3. Describe fire protection
procedures for critical                 -                                                                  -         -         -         -
communications facilities
2.8. Work Center Safety
Program
TR: AFI 91-202, chaps 1, 2.2.
thru 2.3, and 4; AFI 91-203 chap
1; AFQTP 3DXXX-232A;
command and local directives
2.8.1. Manage work center
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
program
2.8.2. Conduct Job Safety
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Analysis
2.8.3. Document AF Forms 55             -                                                                  -         -         -         -
2.8.4. Conduct inspections              -                                                                  -         -         -         -
3. UTILIZE PUBLICATIONS
AND DIRECTIVES
TR: AFIs 33-Series; AF Records
Distribution System; http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil/
3.1 Department of Defense
                                        -                                                                  -         A         -         -
(DOD)/Joint
3.2. Air Force                          5                                                                  -         A         -         -
3.3. Allied Communications
                                        -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Publications (ACP)
3.4. Commercial/vendor
                                        -                                                                  -         A         -         -
publications
3.5. DISA Publications                  -                                                                  -         A         -         -
3.6. Technical Orders (TO)
3.6.1. Describe Technical Order
System
                                        5                                                                  -         A         -         -
TR: AFI 63-101; TO 00-5-1-WA-
1; TO 00-5-18-WA-1
3.6.2. Locate TO numbers and
titles in each TO index
TR: TO 00-5-1-WA-1; TO 00-5-
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
18-WA-1;
https://www.my.af.mil/etims/ETIM
S/index.jsp; applicable TO index
3.6.3. Identify Time Compliance
Technical Orders (TCTO)
procedures
TR: AFCSM 21-568 (V2);
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
https://www.my.af.mil/etims/ETIM
S/index.jsp; AFI 33-150; TO 00-5-
15-WA-1; TO 00-33A-1001-WA-1
and applicable TCTOs




                                                                   41                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                   STS 3D1X3


                                                              3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                            INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                     2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                  &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                 WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                      TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                         Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                               DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS
3.6.4. Implement Time
Compliance Technical Orders
(TCTO) procedures and
document completion
TR: AFCSM 21-568 (V2);                  -                                                                  -         -         -         -
https://www.my.af.mil/etims/ETIM
S/index.jsp; AFI 33-150; TO 00-5-
15-WA-1; TO 00-33A-1001-WA-1
and applicable TCTOs
3.6.5. Prepare local work cards,
checklists and job guides
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
TR: TO 00-5-1-WA-1; command
and local directives
3.6.6. Report Publication Errors
and Form Deficiencies                   5                                                                  -         -         -         -
TR: AFI 33-360
3.6.7. Report Technical Order
Improvements                            5                                                                  -         -         -         -
TR: TO 00-5-1-WA-1
3.7. Standard Installation
Practices Technical Order               -                                                                  -         A         -         -
(SIPTO)
3.8. Enterprise Information
Architecture (EIA)/
                                        -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Telecommunications Industry
Association (TIA)
3.9. Military Standard (MIL STD)        -                                                                  -         A         -         -
3.10. Use publications when
                                        5                                                                  -         -         -         -
performing work
4. LEGAL/ETHICS
TR: AFDD 3-13, Information
Operations; Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act
(HIPAA);
http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/new_
pubs/jp3_13.pdf; USC TITLE 10,
18 and 50
4.1. Explain US Codes (e.g.
Titles 10, 15, 18, 32, 50) (e.g.
Constitutional Authority, legal
aspects of rules of engagement,         -                                                                  -         A         -         -
homeland defense, Posse
Comitatus, UN Charter Paradigm,
Schmidt Analysis)
4.2. Rules of Engagement (ROE)
4.2.1. Policy                           -                                                                  -         -         -         -
4.2.2. Security tools                   -                                                                  -         -         -         -
4.2.3. Network Management
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Components
4.2.4. System Monitoring                -                                                                  -         -         -         -
4.3. Special Data protection (e.g.
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
sensitive personnel information)
5. C4I SECURITY
TR: ACP 122; AFIs 33-129, 33-
138, , 33-332; AFKAG-1&2;
AFMAN 33-326; DOD 5200.1-R;
T.O. 31S5-4-7205-8-1 PKI
Fundamentals




                                                                   42                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                STS 3D1X3


                                                           3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                         INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                  2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND               &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES              WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                   TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                      Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                            DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS
5.1. Operations Security
(OPSEC)
TR: AFI 10-701; AFPD 10-7
5.1.1. Definition                    5                                                                  -         A         -         -
5.1.2. Background                    -                                                                  -         -         -         -
5.1.3. Relationship of OPSEC to
                                     5                                                                  -         B         -         -
other security programs
5.1.4. Vulnerabilities               -                                                                  -         -         -         -
5.1.5. Critical information          -                                                                  -         -         -         -
5.2. Information Security
(INFOSEC)
TR: AFI 31-401; AFPD 31-4 and
33-2
5.2.1. Definition                    5                                                                  -         A         -         -
5.2.2. Classification process        5                                                                  -         -         -         -
5.2.3. Declassification process      5                                                                  -         -         -         -
5.2.4. Information safeguards
5.2.4.1. Privacy Act (PA)            5                                                                  -         A         -         -
5.2.4.2. For Official Use Only
                                     5                                                                  -         A         -         -
(FOUO)
5.2.4.3. Sensitive Unclassified      5                                                                  -         A         -         -
5.2.4.4. Classified                  5                                                                  -         A         -         -
5.3. Communications Security
(COMSEC)
TR: AFIs 31-401, 33-201(V2);
AFPDs 31-4, 33-2
5.3.1. Definition                    5                                                                  -         A         -         -
5.3.2. Vulnerabilities               -                                                                  -         -         -         -
5.3.3. Safeguarding information      5                                                                  -         A         -         -
5.3.4. Identify insecurities         -                                                                  -         -         -         -
5.3.5. Report insecurities           -                                                                  -         -         -         -
5.3.6. Protect COMSEC material
TR: AFI 33-201(V2) sec E, paras
20.1 thru 20.6.1 and local
COMSEC directives
5.3.6.1. Store COMSEC material
equipment
TR: AFI 33-201(V2) sec E,            -                                                                  -         -         -         -
paras19.1 thru 19.5 and local
COMSEC directives
5.3.6.2. Store Controlled
Cryptographic equipment
TR: AFI 33-201(V2) sec E,            -                                                                  -         -         -         -
paras19.1 thru 19.5 and local
COMSEC directives
5.3.7. Inventory COMSEC
documents and/or equipment
TR: AFI 33-201(V2) sec F, paras      -                                                                  -         -         -         -
21.1 thru 21.14 and local
COMSEC directives




                                                                43                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                   STS 3D1X3


                                                              3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                            INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                     2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                  &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                 WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                      TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                         Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                               DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS
5.3.8. Page check COMSEC
documents
TR: AFI 33-201(V2) sec F, paras         -                                                                  -         -         -         -
22.1 thru 22.3.4 and local
COMSEC directives
5.3.9. Post amendments to
COMSEC documents
TR: AFI 33-201(V2) sec F, paras         -                                                                  -         -         -         -
23.1 thru 23.2 and local
COMSEC directives
5.3.10. Explain procedures for
destroying cryptographic
equipment and materials                 -                                                                  -         -         -         -
TR: AFI 33-201(V2) sec G, paras
27 thru 32 and local directives
5.3.11. Explain how to report
physical, personnel, and
cryptographic security violations       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
TR: AFI 33-201(V2) and local
directives
5.3.12. Protect Major
Command/Field Operating
Agency (MAJCOM/FOA) Mission
Critical Information                    -                                                                  -         -         -         -
TR: AFI 10-701; AFPD 10-7;
MAJCOM/FOA directives and
local directives
5.4. Emission Security (EMSEC)
TR: AFSSI 7700; AFPD 33-2
5.4.1. Definition                       5                                                                  -         A         -         -
5.4.2. Notifications                    5                                                                  -         A         -         -
5.4.3. Vulnerabilities                  5                                                                  -         A         -         -
5.4.4. Protected Distribution
                                        5                                                                  -         A         -         -
System (PDS)
5.5. Computer Security
(COMPUSEC)
TR: AFIs 33-200; AFPD 33-2;
AFMAN 33-282
5.5.1. Definition                       5                                                                  -         A         -         -
5.5.2. Vulnerabilities                  5                                                                  -         B         -         -
5.5.3. Processing classified
                                        5                                                                  -         B         -         -
information
5.5.4. Identify insecurities            5                                                                  -         B         -         -
5.5.5. Report insecurities              5                                                                  -         A         -         -
5.6. Physical Security
TR: AFI 31-101; AFPD 31-1
5.6.1. Definition                       5                                                                  -         A         -         -
5.6.2. Secure area access
                                        -                                                                  -         B         -         -
management
5.6.3. Facility security
                                        -                                                                  -         B         -         -
requirements
5.6.4. Identify violations
                                        5                                                                  -         -         -         -
procedures
5.6.5. Report violations
                                        5                                                                  -         -         -         -
procedures
5.6.6. Classified material control



                                                                   44                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                  STS 3D1X3


                                                             3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                           INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                    2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                 &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                     TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                        Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                              DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS

5.6.6.1. Storage                       5                                                                  -         B         -         -
5.6.6.2. Transport                     5                                                                  -         B         -         -
5.6.6.3. Handling                      5                                                                  -         B         -         -
5.6.6.4. Destruction                   -                                                                  -         -         -         -
5.6.6.5. Classified waste              -                                                                  -         -         -         -
5.6.6.6. Marking                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
5.7. Information Assurance
TR: AFI 33-200 and 33-210
5.7.1. Definition                      5                                                                  -         A         -         -
5.7.2. Certification and
                                       -                                                                  -         A         -         -
accreditation process
5.8. Information Conditions
(INFOCON)                              5                                                                  -         B         -         -
TR: AFI 10-710
6. IT REQUIREMENTS
TR: AFI 33-401 and 33-210
6.1. Lifecycle                         -                                                                  -         A         -         -
6.2. Procurement                       -                                                                  -         A         -         -
6.3. Integrated Technical
                                       -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Reference Model (iTRM)
7. MANAGEMENT OF
PROCESSES
TR: AFIs 33-150, 36-2201, 63-
501, 63-131, 64-102; AFPD 36-5,
64-1; Federal Acquisition
Regulation (FAR) Part 39; OMB
Circular A-130; TOs 00-33A-
1001-WA-1 and 00-33D-3003-
WA-1.
7.1. Management Policies
7.1.1. Equipment Readiness             -                                                                  -         -         -         -
7.1.2. Staffing and Utilization        7                                                                  -         -         -         -
7.1.3. Training
7.1.3.1. Document Training             5                                                                  -         -         -         -
7.1.3.2. Evaluate newly assigned
personnel and identify individual
training requirements
                                       5                                                                  -         -         -         -
TR: AFIs 36-2201, AFI 33-150;
AFQTP 3DXXX-232A; Applicable
CFETP; Local directives
7.1.3.3. Conduct On-the-Job
Training (OJT)
                                       5                                                                  -         -         -         -
TR: AFI 36-2201; AFQTP
3DXXX-232A; and local directives
7.1.3.4. Evaluate quality of OJT
and provide trainee feedback
                                       5                                                                  -         -         -         -
TR: AFI 36-2201; AFQTP
3DXXX-232A
7.1.3.5. Develop Master Training
                                       7                                                                  -         -         -         -
Plan
7.1.4. Quality Assurance (QA)




                                                                  45                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                  STS 3D1X3


                                                             3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                           INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                    2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                 &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                     TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                        Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                              DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS

7.1.4.1. Perform self inspection       5                                                                  -         -         -         -
7.1.4.2. Evaluate Equipment            7                                                                  -         -         -         -
7.1.4.3. Document results              5                                                                  -         -         -         -
7.1.4.4. Describe the QA function      5                                                                            A
7.1.5. Automated Information
Systems (AIS)
7.1.5.1. Integrated Maintenance
                                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Data System
7.1.5.2. Remedy                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
7.1.5.3. Asset Inventory
                                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Management System
7.1.5.4. Training Business Area
                                       5                                                                  -         -         -         -
(TBA)
7.1.6. Describe the
Communications Focal Point
                                       -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Function
TR: MPTO 00-33D-1001-WA-1
7.1.7. Logistics Support
7.1.7.1. Submit Price Challenges
                                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
TR: AFMAN 23-110 (V7) part 4
7.1.7.2. Report Item and
Packaging Discrepancies                -                                                                  -         -         -         -
TR: AFJMAN 23-215
7.1.7.3. Report Uniform Source,
Maintenance and Recoverability
Code and Air Force
Expendability, Recoverability,
                                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Reparability Category Code
Discrepancies
TR: AFJI 21-106; TOs 00-20-3,
chap 1; 00-25-195-WA-1
7.1.7.4. Submit Deficiency
Reports                                -                                                                  -         -         -         -
TR: TO 00-35D-54-WA-1, chap 3
7.1.7.5. Research and identify
part and stock numbers
TR: Applicable equipment TOs,          -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Federal Logistics (FEDLOG)
program
7.1.7.6. Maintain supply listings
and reports (D04, D18, M30,
D23, or equivalent Integrated
Maintenance Data System                -                                                                  -         -         -         -
(IMDS))
TR: AFMAN 23-110 (V2) part 13,
chap 5
7.1.7.7. Maintain bench stock
TR: AFMAN 23-110 (V2) part 2,
                                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
chap 25; (V2) part 13, chap 3;
and local directives
7.1.7.8. Maintain supply point
stock
TR: AFMAN 23-110 (V2) part 2,
                                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
chap 24, attach 24A4 and 24A5;
(V2) part 13, chap 3; TO 00-20-3-
WA-1, chap 3




                                                                  46                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                   STS 3D1X3


                                                              3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                            INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                     2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                  &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                 WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                      TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                         Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                               DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS
7.1.7.9. Request and validate
adjusted stock levels (special
levels)                                 -                                                                  -         -         -         -
TR: AFMAN 23-110 (V2) part 2,
chap 19; (V2) part 13, chap 3
7.1.7.10. Describe procedures
for recovering and turning in
precious metals                         -                                                                  -         -         -         -
TR: AFMAN 23-110 (V2) part 13,
chap 1.15; and local directives
7.1.7.11. Manage repair cycle
TR: AFMAN 23-110 (V2) part 2,
chap 24; AFMAN 23-110 (V2),             -                                                                  -         -         -         -
part 13, chap 6; TO 00-20-3-WA-
1, chaps 2 and 3, and Table 2-1
7.1.7.12. Initiate Not Repairable
This Station (NRTS) actions
TR: AFI 33-150; TO 00-20-3-             -                                                                  -         -         -         -
WA-1, chaps 3 and 6, and Table
1-1
7.1.7.13. Initiate contract repair
(AF Form 9)
TR: AFI 64-102; AFMAN 23-110            -                                                                  -         -         -         -
(V2) part 13, chap 8, sec 8H;
Command and local directives
7.1.7.14. Maintain Custodian
Authorization/Custody Receipt
Listing (CA/CRL) equipment
accounts                                -                                                                  -         -         -         -
TR: AFMAN 23-110 (V2) part 13,
chap 8, secs 8C and 8F; and
local directives
7.1.8. Work Center Management
TR: AFQTP 3DXXX-232A,
AFQTP 3DXXX-200D and AFI
21-103
7.1.8.1. Report Status                  5                                                                  -         -         -         -
7.1.8.2. Document actions               5                                                                  -         -         -         -
7.1.8.3. Develop work schedules         7                                                                  -         -         -         -
7.1.9. Modification Management

7.1.9.1. Control Configuration          -                                                                  -         -         -         -
7.1.9.2. Initiate Modification
Proposals                               -                                                                  -         -         -         -
TR: AFI 63-131
7.1.10. Cyberspace
Infrastructure Planning System
(CIPS)
TR: TO 00-33D-3003-WA-1 and
00-33D-3004-WA-1
7.1.10.1. CSIRs                         -                                                                  -         A         -         -

7.1.10.2. CIPS CVC tool                 -                                                                  -         -         -         -
7.1.11. Administrative Contract
Management
TR: Federal Acquisition
Regulation (FAR)
Part 16
7.1.11.1. Types of Contracts



                                                                   47                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                  STS 3D1X3


                                                             3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                           INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                    2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                 &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                     TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                        Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                              DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS

7.1.11.1.1. Time and material          -                                                                  -         -         -         -

7.1.11.1.2. Firm fixed price           -                                                                  -         -         -         -

7.1.11.1.3. Sole source                -                                                                  -         -         -         -

7.1.11.1.4. Performance based          -                                                                  -         -         -         -
7.1.11.1.5. Indefinite delivery
                                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
indefinite quantity
7.1.11.1.6. Blanket Purchase
                                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Agreement (e.g. AFWAY, PCOE)
7.1.11.2. Responsibilities
7.1.11.2.1. Quality Assurance
                                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Program Coordinator
7.1.11.2.2. Functional
                                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
director/commander
7.1.11.2.3. Quality assurance
                                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
personnel
7.1.11.2.4. Unit contract monitor      -                                                                  -         -         -         -
7.2. Information Management
TR: AFH 33-337; AFIs 33-119,
33-129, 33-321; AFMANs 33-128,
33-326; 37-104 (will convert to
AFI 33-396); AFPD 33-3 and TO
31S5-4-7205-8-1 PKI
Fundamentals
7.2.1. Electronic
                                       5                                                                  -         A         -         -
Communications
7.2.2. Internet policy
                                       5                                                                  A         A         -         -
familiarization
7.2.3. E-mail Management
7.2.3.1. Policy                        5                                                                  -         A         -         -
7.2.3.2. E-mail etiquette              5                                                                  -         A         -         -
7.3. Air Force Portal
TR: AF EIM CONOP; AF EIM
Strategy; AF Portal Publishing
Training Site; Air Force Portal
Content Publishing Training
Guides
7.3.1. Program objectives              -                                                                  -         A         -         -
7.3.2. Roles                           -                                                                  -         A         -         -
7.3.3. Enterprise Information
Management (EIM)
7.3.3.1. Definition                    -                                                                  -         A         -         -
7.3.3.2. Capabilities                  -                                                                  -         A         -         -
7.3.4. Collaborative Tools
7.3.4.1. Community of Practice
                                       -                                                                  -         A         -         -
(CoP)
7.3.4.2. Defense Connect Online
                                       -                                                                  -         A         -         -
(DCO)
7.3.4.3. SharePoint                    -                                                                  -         A         -         -




                                                                  48                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                  STS 3D1X3


                                                             3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                           INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                    2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                 &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                     TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                        Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                              DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS
7.4. Records Management
Program
TR: AFIs 33-322, 33-364;
AFMANs 37-104 (will convert to
AFI 33-396), 33-363; AFPDs 33-
1, 33-3; AF Electronic Records
Management Solution Guide; AF
Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS)
7.4.1. Program objectives              -                                                                  -         A         -         -
7.4.2. Definition of official
                                       5                                                                  -         A         -         -
records
7.4.3. User Responsibilities           5                                                                  -         A         -         -
7.4.4. Business rules for
                                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
electronic files (e-files)
7.4.5. Files Maintenance
Disposition Plan
(Paper/Electronic)
7.4.5.1. File and retrieve
                                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
documents
7.4.5.2. Cutoff procedures (paper
                                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
/electronic)
7.4.6. Managing deployed
                                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
records
7.4.7. Destruction                     -                                                                  -         -         -         -
7.5. Functional Management
TR: AFECD; AFIs 33-101, 36-
2201, 36-2845, 38-101; AFMAN
37-104; AFQTP 3DXXX-225E;
3D1X3 CFETP; AFQTP 3DXXX-
232A
7.5.1. Responsibilities
7.5.1.1. AF Career Field
                                       5                                                                  A         A         -         -
Manager
7.5.1.2. MAJCOM Functional
                                       5                                                                  A         A         -         -
Manager
7.5.1.3. Base Functional
                                       5                                                                  A         A         -         -
Manager
7.5.2. Resource Management
7.5.2.1. Manpower products             7                                                                  -         -         -         -
7.5.2.2. Manpower studies              -                                                                  -         -         -         -
7.5.2.3. Describe Authorization
/Organizational Change Request         7                                                                  -         -         -         -
process
7.5.2.4. Manpower standards            -                                                                  -         -         -         -
7.5.2.5. Allocating personnel          7                                                                  -         -         -         -
7.5.3. Information Dominance
                                       7                                                                  -         -         -         -
awards program
7.5.4. Workshops




                                                                  49                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                   STS 3D1X3


                                                              3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                            INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                     2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                  &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                 WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                      TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                         Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                               DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS
7.5.4.1. Describe the purpose of
Utilization and Training Workshop       5                                                                  -         A         -         -
(U&TW)
7.5.4.2. Describe the purpose of
                                        5                                                                  -         A         -         -
Training Advisory Groups
7.5.4.3. Describe the purpose of
                                        5                                                                  A         A         -         -
Occupational survey
7.5.4.4. Describe the purpose of
Specialty Training Requirements         5                                                                  -         A         -         -
Team (STRT)
8. EXPEDITIONARY
COMMUNICATIONS
CONCEPTS
TR:
https://aef.afpc.randolph.af.milAF
DD 4-0; AFIs 10-401, 10-403, 21-
109, 33-201 (V2), AFMAN 23-110
8.1. Describe Joint Task Force
(JTF) Organizational Structure
8.1.1. Unified/Combatant
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Commands (COCOM)
8.1.2. Air Force Component
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Commander (AFCC)
8.1.3. Joint Force Air Component
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Commander (JFACC)
8.1.4. Commander Air Force
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Forces (COMAFFOR)
8.2. Describe the Concepts of
Aerospace Expeditionary Force
(AEF) Employment
8.2.1. AEF Tempo Banding                5                                                                  -         A         -         -
8.2.2. Enabler Forces                   5                                                                  -         A         -         -
8.2.3. Deployment Planning and
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Execution
8.3. Deployment Process
8.3.1. Defined                          -                                                                  -         -         -         -
8.3.2. Develop
8.3.2.1. Designed Operational
                                        7                                                                  -         -         -         -
Capability (DOC)
8.3.2.2. AEF UTCs
8.3.2.2.1. Unit Type Code               5                                                                  -         A         -         -
8.3.2.2.2. Equipment (e.g.
                                        7                                                                  -         A         -         -
LOGDET)
8.3.2.2.3. Personnel (e.g.
                                        7                                                                  -         A         -         -
MANFOR)
8.4. Posturing                          7                                                                  -         -         -         -
8.5. Sourcing                           7                                                                  -         -         -         -
8.6. Readiness Status Reporting
8.6.1. Status of Resources and
                                        7                                                                  -         -         -         -
Training (SORTS)
8.6.2. AEF UTC Reporting Tool
                                        7                                                                  -         -         -         -
(ART)
8.7. Understand Force Module
communications support concept




                                                                   50                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                   STS 3D1X3


                                                              3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                            INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                     2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                  &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                 WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                      TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                         Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                               DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS

8.7.1. Open the Air Base                7                                                                  -         -         -         -
8.7.2. Command and Control              7                                                                  -         -         -         -
8.7.3. Establish the Air Base           7                                                                  -         -         -         -
8.7.4. Generate the Mission             7                                                                  -         -         -         -
8.7.5. Operate the Air Base             7                                                                  -         -         -         -
8.7.6. Robust the Air Base              7                                                                  -         -         -         -
8.8. Deployment Procedures
8.8.1. Develop load plan                -                                                                  -         -         -         -
8.8.2. Explain pallet build-up
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
procedures
8.8.3. Explain hazardous cargo
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
preparation
8.8.4. Prepare documentation            -                                                                  -         -         -         -
8.8.5. Determine site selection
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
requirements
8.8.6. Determine site preparation
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
requirements
8.8.7. Determine site
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
configuration requirements
8.8.8. Determine requirements
for constructing deployment site        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
utility grids
9. TYPICAL DEPLOYABLE
COMM MISSIONS
TR: AFPAM 10-100; MAJCOM
and Local Directives
9.1. Deployable COMM
missions:
9.1.1. Contingency Response
                                        -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Groups
9.1.2. Theater Deployable
                                        -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Communications (TDC)
9.1.3. Deployable Air Traffic
                                        -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Control Systems (DATCALS)
9.1.4. Engineering Installation         -                                                                  -         A         -         -
9.1.5. C4ISR Platforms
9.1.5.1. Air Operations Centers         -                                                                  -         A         -         -
9.1.5.2. Ground Theater Air
Control Systems (Air Control            -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Squadrons)
9.1.5.3. Air Support Operations
                                        -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Centers
9.1.5.4. Remote Piloted Aircraft
                                        -                                                                  -         A         -         -
(RPA)
9.1.5.5. Installation Notification
                                        -                                                                  -         A         -         -
and Warning System
9.1.5.6. American Forces
                                        -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Network (AFN)
9.1.5.7. Aeromedical Evacuation
                                        -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Support
10. ENTERPRISE SYSTEMS
TR: AFI 13 Series; CJCSI
6211.02; Joint Pub 6-0




                                                                   51                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                 STS 3D1X3


                                                            3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                          INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                   2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES               WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                    TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                       Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                             DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS
10.1. Information Transport
                                      -                                                                  -         A         -         -
System (ITS)
10.2. Global Command and
                                      -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Control Systems (GCCS)
10.3. Global Combat Support
                                      -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Systems (GCSS)
10.4. Global Information Grid
                                      -                                                                  -         A         -         -
(GIG)
10.5. Defense Information
                                      -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Systems Network (DISN)
10.6. Defense Switched Network
                                      -                                                                  -         A         -         -
(DSN)
10.7. Non-secure Internet
Protocol Router Network               -                                                                  -         A         -         -
(NIPRNET)
10.8. Secure Networks
10.8.1. Secret Internet Protocol
                                      -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Router Network (SIPRNET)
10.8.2. Defense Red Switch
                                      -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Network (DRSN)
10.8.3. Joint World-wide
Intelligence Communications           -                                                                  -         A         -         -
System (JWICS)
10.8.4. National Security Agency
                                      -                                                                  -         A         -         -
(NSA) Net
10.8.5. Global Broadcast Service
                                      -                                                                  -         A         -         -
(GBS)
10.8.6. Global Positioning
                                      -                                                                  -         A         -         -
System (GPS)
10.8.7. Distributed Common
                                      -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Ground System (DCGS)
10.8.8. Battle Control System-
                                      -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Fixed
10.8.9. Theater Battle
Management Core Systems               -                                                                  -         A         -         -
(TBMCS)
10.9. Nuclear Command and
Control Systems
TR: AFDD 3-72 Nuclear
Operations, CJCSI 3231.01B
Nuclear Command and Control
Extremely Sensitive Operation
10.9.1. National Military
                                      -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Command Center (NMCC)
10.9.2. Global High Frequency
                                      -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Network
10.9.3. Strategic Automated
Command and Control System            -                                                                  -         A         -         -
(SACCS)
10.9.4. Military Strategic and
Tactical Relay (MILSTAR)              -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Satellite
10.9.5. Minimum Essential
Emergency Communications              -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Network (MEECN)
10.10. Space Systems Elements
10.10.1. Air Force Satellite
                                      -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Control Network (AFSCN)
10.10.2. Defense Meteorological
                                      -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Satellite Program (DMSP)




                                                                 52                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                   STS 3D1X3


                                                              3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                            INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                     2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                  &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                 WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                      TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                         Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                               DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS
10.11. DoD Teleports &
                                        -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Standard Tactical Entry Points
11. ORGANIZATIONAL
STRUCTURE
TR: AFIs 33-115 (V1), 38-101;
AFPD 13-3
11.1. Communication Squadron            5                                                                  -         A         -         -
11.2. Combat Communications
                                        5                                                                  -         A         -         -
Squadron
11.3. Expeditionary
                                        5                                                                  -         A         -         -
Communications Squadron
11.4. Air Force Network
Operations (AFNETOPS)
11.4.1. Air Force Network
                                        5                                                                  -         B         -         -
Operations Center (AFNOC)
11.4.2. Integrated Network
Operations Security Center              5                                                                  -         B         -         -
(INOSC)
11.4.3. Enterprise Service Unit
                                        5                                                                  -         B         -         -
(ESU)
11.4.4. Area Processing Center
                                        5                                                                  -         B         -         -
(APC)
11.4.5. Enterprise Service Desk
                                        5                                                                  -         B         -         -
(ESD)
12. CYBER OPERATIONS
TR: AFDD 3-12
12.1. Structure                         -                                                                  -         A         -         -
12.2. Missions
12.2.1. Offensive                       -                                                                  -         A         -         -
12.2.2. Defensive                       -                                                                  -         A         -         -
12.2.3. Exploitation                    -                                                                  -         A         -
12.2.4. Other (e.g. Influence
Operations (IFO), Electronic            -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Warfare (EW))
12.3. Network Warfare
Fundamentals
12.3.1. Control Systems (e.g.
Supervisory Control and Data            -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Acquisition (SCADA) networks)
12.3.2. Identify Tactical Data
                                        -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Link (TADL) networks
12.3.3. Network Exploitation
                                        -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Capabilities
12.4. Cyber Capabilities
12.4.1. Affects on adversary
                                        -                                                                  -         B         -         -
decision makers
12.4.2. Role of cyber operations
in achieving military and national      -                                                                  -         B         -         -
goals and objectives
12.4.3. Information Superiority         -                                                                  -         B         -         -
12.4.4. Air Force Network
                                        -                                                                  -         B         -         -
Operations Center (AFNOC) Role
12.4.5. Air Operations Center
                                        -                                                                  -         B         -         -
(AOC) Role




                                                                   53                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                  STS 3D1X3


                                                             3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                           INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                    2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                 &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                     TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                        Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                              DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS
12.4.6. Checklists, Standard
Operating Procedures (SOP),
                                       -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Tactics, Techniques and
Procedures (TTP)
13. BASIC COMPUTER
FUNDAMENTALS
TR: AF e-Learning, Cyber
Support Training, 3DXXX Basic
Computer Fundamentals
13.1. Communications/Network
Protocols
13.1.1. Connection Oriented
                                       -                                                                  -         B         -         -
Communication
13.1.2. Connectionless Oriented
                                       -                                                                  -         B         -         -
Communication
13.1.3. International Standards
Organization (ISO) Open
                                       -                                                                  -         B         -         -
Systems Interconnect (OSI)
Model
13.1.4. TCP/IP                         -                                                                  -         B         -         -
13.1.5. Department of Defense
                                       -                                                                  -         A         -         -
(DoD) Standards Protocol
13.1.6. IPv4/IPV6                      -                                                                  -         B         -         -
13.1.7. Ports (IP)                     -                                                                  -         A         -         -
13.2. Network
Theory/Components
13.2.1. Components
13.2.1.1. Component Principles         -                                                                  -         B         -         -
13.2.1.2. Central Processing Unit
                                       -                                                                  -         A         -         -
(CPU)
13.2.1.3. Computer memory              -                                                                  -         A         -         -
13.2.1.4. Input/output (I/O)
                                       -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Devices
13.2.1.5. Storage Devices              -                                                                  -         A         -         -
13.2.1.6. Peripherals (Printers,
                                       -                                                                  -         A         -         -
FAX, Scanners, etc)
13.2.2. Network Types
13.2.2.1. Wired ( LAN, WAN,
                                       -                                                                  -         B         -         -
MAN)
13.2.2.2. Wireless                     -                                                                  -         B         -         -
13.2.2.3. Virtual Private Network
                                       -                                                                  -         B         -         -
(VPN)
13.2.2.4. Topologies (Star, Ring,
                                       -                                                                  -         B         -         -
Bus, hybrid, etc)
13.2.2.5. Theory and operation
of switching devices (e.g. ATM,        -                                                                  -         B         -         -
ISDN, GIG-E)
13.3. Network Devices
13.3.1. Modems                         -                                                                  -         A         -         -
13.3.2. Switches                       -                                                                  -         A         -         -
13.3.3. Multiplexers                   -                                                                  -         A         -         -
13.3.4. Bridges/routers                -                                                                  -         A         -         -




                                                                  54                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                  STS 3D1X3


                                                             3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                           INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                    2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                 &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                     TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                        Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                              DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS

13.3.5. Encryption Devices             -                                                                  -         A         -         -
13.4. Communications Mediums           -                                                                  -         A         -         -
13.5. LAN Architecture                 -                                                                  -         A         -         -
13.6. Software
13.6.1. Operating Systems (e.g.
                                       -                                                                  -         A         -         -
UNIX, Windows, LINUX)
13.6.2. Applications (e.g. Word,
                                       -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Excel, PowerPoint)
13.6.3. Infectious and malicious
                                       -                                                                  -         B         -         -
Software
14. COUNTER-CHEMICAL,
BIOLOGICAL, RADIOLOGICAL
and NUCLEAR
TR: AFPAM 10-100 and 10-2501
14.1. Describe threats
14.1.1. Chemical                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
14.1.2. Biological                     -                                                                  -         -         -         -
14.1.3. Nuclear                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
14.1.4. Radiological                   -                                                                  -         -         -         -
14.2. Warning systems, signals
and reporting procedures
14.2.1. Joint and Coalition            -                                                                  -         -         -         -
14.2.2. Air Force                      -                                                                  -         -         -         -
14.2.3. Respond to alarm
conditions
14.2.3.1. Identify and prioritize
                                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
mission/service restoration
14.2.3.2. Post-attack personnel
                                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
accountability
14.2.3.3. Post-attack
                                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
reconnaissance
14.2.3.4. Identify and mark
CBRNE to include unexploded            -                                                                  -         -         -         -
ordinance
14.2.3.5. Report suspicious
                                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
activities
14.3. Mission Oriented Protective
Postures
14.3.1. Describe                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
14.3.2. Implement                      -                                                                  -         -         -         -
14.4. Individual protective
equipment & personal protective
equipment (IPE/PPE)
14.4.1 Requirements and
                                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Limitations
14.4.2. Joint Service Lightweight
Integrated Suit Technology
(JLIST)
14.4.2.1. Inspect and maintain         -                                                                  -         -         -         -
14.4.2.2. Wear                         -                                                                  -         -         -         -




                                                                  55                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                   STS 3D1X3


                                                              3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                            INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                     2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                  &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                 WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                      TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                         Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                               DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS
14.4.2.3. Perform critical mission
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
tasks
14.4.2.4. Execute work-rest
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
cycles and hydration standards
14.4.2.5. Perform self aid and
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
buddy care
14.4.2.6. Perform contaminated
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
personnel movement
14.4.2.7. Perform
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
decontamination procedures
15. AIR FORCE COMPUTER
BASED TRAINING (Note 1)
TR:
https://www.my.af.mil/faf/FAF/faf
Home.jsp (Under AF e-Learning)
15.1. 3D1XX Common
Fundamentals Training Tracks
15.1.1. Introduction to
Telecommunications                      5                                                                  -         -         -         -
(72111_ENG)
15.1.2. Introduction to Signals
and Signal Transmission (84650          5                                                                  -         -         -         -
ENG)
15.1.3. Introduction to
Communications Methods and              5                                                                  -         -         -         -
Equipment (110725 ENG)
15.1.4. CompTIA Network+
2009: Network Fundamentals              5                                                                  -         -         -         -
(cs_ctnt_a01_it_enus )
15.1.5. Techniques for Improved
Time Management                         5                                                                  -         -         -         -
(pd_01_a02_bs_enus.)
15.1.6. CompTIA Network+
2009: Wide Area Networks                5                                                                  -         -         -         -
(cs_ctnt_a06_it_enus)
15.1.7. Project Management
Overview                                7                                                                  -         -         -         -
(proj_05_a02_bs_enus)
15.1.8. Project Management
Process Groups                          7                                                                  -         -         -         -
(proj_05_a03_bs_enus)
15.1.9. Integrated Initiation and
Planning                                7                                                                  -         -         -         -
(proj_06_a01_bs_enus)
15.1.10. Integrated Project
Execution, Monitoring, and
                                        7                                                                  -         -         -         -
Control
(proj_06_a02_bs_enus)
15.1.11. Integrated Project
Change Control and Close                7                                                                  -         -         -         -
(proj_06_a03_bs_enus)
15.1.12. Risk Management
Planning                                7                                                                  -         -         -         -
(proj_13_a01_bs_enus)
15.2. 3D1X3 RF Transmission
Systems Track
15.2.1. Wireless Communication
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Basics 21927_ENG
16. TEST EQUIPMENT
TR: Applicable test equipment
technical orders; TO 33K-1-100-1




                                                                   56                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                 STS 3D1X3


                                                            3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                          INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                   2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES               WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                    TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                       Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                             DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS
16.1. Identify principles,
capabilities, limitations and
perform equipment maintenance
using the following test
equipment:
16.1.1. Oscilloscope                  5                                                                  -         -         -         -
16.1.2. Multimeter                    5                                                                  -         A         -         -
16.1.3. Optical Time Domain
                                      -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Reflectometer
16.1.4. Time Domain
                                      -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Reflectometer
16.1.5. Bit Error Rate Test Set       -                                                                 2b         A         -         -
16.1.6. Frequency counter             5                                                                 2b         A         -         -
16.1.7. Network/Protocol
                                      -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Analyzer
16.1.8. Spectrum Analyzer             5                                                                 2b         A         -         -
16.1.9. Power Meter                   5                                                                 2b         A         -         -
16.1.10. RF Signal Generator          5                                                                 2b         A         -         -
16.1.11. Insulation Test Set          -                                                                  -         -         -         -
16.1.12. Megaohmeter                  -                                                                  -         -         -         -
16.1.13. Built-in test equipment      -                                                                  -         -         -         -
16.1.14. Breakout box                 -                                                                  -         -         -         -
16.1.15. Communications
                                      -                                                                 2b         A         -         -
System Analyzer
16.1.16. Sweep Generator              -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
16.1.17. Function Generator           -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
16.1.18. RMS Voltmeter                -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
16.1.19. Distortion Analyzer          -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
16.1.20. Wattmeter                    5                                                                 2b         A         -         -
16.1.21. Dummy Load                   5                                                                 2b         A         -         -
16.1.22. Audio Oscillator             5                                                                 2b         A         -         -
16.1.23. Infrared Tester              -                                                                  -         -         -         -
16.1.24. Earth Ground Tester          -                                                                 2b         A         -         -
16.1.25. Frequency Generator          5                                                                 2b         A         -         -
16.1.26. Wavemeter                    -                                                                  -         -         -         -
16.1.27. Noise Figure Meter           -                                                                  -         -         -         -
17. SPECIALIZED TOOLS
TR: Applicable technical
publications
17.1. Amphenol tool                   -                                                                  -         -         -         -
17.2. Tone generator                  -                                                                  -         -         -         -
17.3. Inductive amplifier             -                                                                  -         -         -         -
17.4. LAN Tester                      -                                                                  -         -         -         -




                                                                 57                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                   STS 3D1X3


                                                              3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                            INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                     2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                  &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                 WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                      TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                         Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                               DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS

17.5. Light Source                      -                                                                  -         -         -         -
17.6. Transit                           -                                                                  -         -         -         -
17.7. Fusion Splicer                    -                                                                  -         -         -         -
17.8. Fiber Optic Source and
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Meter
18. STANDARD PRACTICES
TR: AFI 32-1065, American
Public Works Association Policy
and American National St; TOs
00-25-234-WA-1, 31-10-7-WA-1,
31-10-11-WA-1, 31-10-13, 31-
10-24-WA-1, 31-141-1-WA-1
series, 31W3 10-20, MIL-STD
2000A
18.1. State facts related to the
following practices:
18.1.1. Installation                    5                                                                  -         A         -         -
18.1.2. Configuration                   5                                                                  -         A         -         -
18.1.3. Interconnection                 5                                                                  -         A         -         -
18.1.4. Inspection                      7                                                                  -         A         -         -
18.2. Marking and identifying
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
underground utilities
18.3. EMSEC suppression
                                        -                                                                  -         B         -         -
techniques
18.4. Cable labeling and
                                        -                                                                  -         A         -         -
installation documentation
18.5. Wire color-coding
                                        -                                                                  -         B         -         -
standards
18.6. Fiber optics installation
                                        -                                                                  -         A         -         -
concepts
18.7. Characteristics of:
18.7.1. Copper cables                   -                                                                  -         A         -         -
18.7.2. Coaxial cables                  -                                                                  -         A         -         -
18.7.3. Fiber optic cable               -                                                                  -         A         -         -
18.7.4. Interfacing considerations
(e.g. TRI-TAC, pinouts, signal          -                                                                  -         -         -         -
format)
18.8. Concepts of:
18.8.1. Grounding                       5                                                                  A         B         -         -
18.8.2. Bonding                         -                                                                  A         B         -         -
18.8.3. Shielding                       -                                                                  A         B         -         -
18.8.4. Lightning protection            -                                                                  A         B         -         -
18.9. Electrostatic Discharge
TR: AFQTP3DXXX-202A
Electrostatic Discharge
Handbook
18.9.1. Principles                      5                                                                  A         B         -         -
18.9.2. Concepts                        5                                                                  -         B         -         -




                                                                   58                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                 STS 3D1X3


                                                            3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                          INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                   2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES               WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                    TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                       Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                             DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS
18.9.3. Handling, Packaging and
                                      5                                                                  -         -         -         -
Storing
18.10. Equipment grounding and
Lightning Protection
18.10.1. Install                      -                                                                  -         -         -         -
18.10.2. Remove                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
18.10.3. Perform inspection and
                                      5                                                                  -         -         -         -
maintenance
18.11. Equipment Familiarization
18.11.1. Locate Elements
18.11.1.1. Alphanumerics              -                                                                  -         -         -         -
18.11.1.2. Visual Inspection          -                                                                  -         -         -         -
18.12. Basic Troubleshooting
                                      -                                                                  B         -         -         -
Techniques
19. COMMUNICATIONS
PRINCIPLES
TR: TO 31-1-141 Series
19.1. Amplitude Modulation (AM)       -                                                                  -         B         -         -
19.2. Frequency Modulation
                                      -                                                                  -         B         -         -
(FM)
19.3. Phase Modulation (PM)           -                                                                  -         B         -         -
19.4. Pulse Code Modulation
                                      -                                                                  -         B         -         -
(PCM)
19.5. Bandwidth                       -                                                                  -         B         -         -
19.6. Light wave
                                      -                                                                  -         B         -         -
communications
19.7. Asynchronous and
synchronous communication             -                                                                  -         B         -         -
modes
19.8. Error detection and
                                      -                                                                  -         B         -         -
correction
20. ELECTRICAL POWER
SYSTEMS
TR: Commercial Manuals
20.1. Switched electrical power
                                      -                                                                  A         A         -         -
systems
20.2. Uninterruptible Power
                                      -                                                                  A         A         -         -
Supplies (UPS)
20.3. Batteries                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
20.4. Rectifiers                      -                                                                  -         -         -         -
20.5. Inverters                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
20.6. Generators                      -                                                                  -         -         -         -
21. CRYPTO PRINCIPLES
TR: Applicable TOs and
Manuals
21.1. Common cryptology
                                      -                                                                  A         -         -         -
methods
21.2. Common crypto logical
                                      -                                                                  A         B         -         -
equipment
21.3. Common Fill Devices             -                                                                  A         B         -         -
21.4. Operate selected crypto
                                      -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
logical equipment



                                                                 59                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                    STS 3D1X3


                                                               3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                             INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                      2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                   &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                  WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                       TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                          Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                                DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS
22. INSTALLATION
NOTIFICATION AND WARNING
SYSTEMS (GIANT VOICE)
TR: AFI 10-2501 and
Commercial Manuals
22.1. Principles, capabilities and
                                         -                                                                  B         B         -         -
limitations
22.2. Controls and indicators            -                                                                  A         -         -         -
22.3. Functions of modules               -                                                                  B         -         -         -
22.4. Perform operational checks         -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
22.5. Configure                          -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
22.6. Align                              -                                                                  -         -         -         -
22.7. Troubleshoot and repair            -                                                                  -         -         -         -
22.8. Remove and replace sub-
                                         -                                                                  -         -         -         -
assemblies
22.9. Setup and teardown                 -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
23. GLOBAL POSITIONING
SYSTEM RECEIVER
TR: TO 31R4-2PSN11/13 Series
and applicable commercial
manuals
23.1. Principles, capabilities and
                                         -                                                                  A         B         -         -
limitations
23.2. Controls and indicators            -                                                                  A         -         -         -
23.3. Perform operational checks         -                                                                  -         -         -         -
23.4. Configure                          -                                                                  -         -         -         -
23.5. Operate a GPS receiver             -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
24. MULTI CHANNEL
SATELLITE SYSTEMS
TR: Commercial Publications
(Harris Publication #10515-0109-
4100; TM SOFIIS-00-G10-00297-
00)
24.1. Introduction to UHF, SHF,
                                         -                                                                  A         B         -         -
EHF terminals
24.2. Principles, capabilities, and
limitations of UHF TACSAT
DAMA
TR: AFQTP3D1X3-208A
24.2.1. UHF TACSAT
                                         -                                                                  B         -         -         -
transceiver
24.2.2. Control and indicator
                                         -                                                                  B
functions
24.2.3. Operate the UHF
                                         -                                                                 2b
TACSAT transceiver
24.3. Defense Satellite
Communications System (DSCS)
purpose, capabilities and
                                         -                                                                  A         -         -         -
limitations
TR: DISA Circular 800-70-1,
Chap 3




                                                                    60                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                    STS 3D1X3


                                                               3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                             INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                      2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                   &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                  WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                       TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                          Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                                DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS
24.4. Defense Meteorological
Satellite Program (DMSP)
purpose, capabilities and
limitations                              -                                                                  -         A         -         -
TR:
http://dmsp.ngdc.noaa.gov/dmsp.
html
24.5. Defense Support Program
(DSP) purpose, capabilities and
limitations
TR:
http://www.af.mil/factsheets/facts
                                         -                                                                  -         A         -         -
heet.asp?fsID=96;
http://www.milnet.com/milnet/dsp.
htm;
http://msl.jpl.nasa.gov/programs/d
sp.html
24.6. MILSTAR purpose,
capabilities and limitations
TR:
http://www.af.mil/factsheets/facts
                                         -                                                                  A         -         -         -
heet.asp?fsID=118 and
http://www.losangeles.af.mil/librar
y/factsheets/factsheet.asp?fsid=5
328
24.7. UHF Follow-on purpose,
                                         -                                                                  A         -         -         -
capabilities and limitations
24.8. Commercial C, Ku, K, X
and Ka band purpose,                     -                                                                  A         -         -         -
capabilities and limitations
24.9. Commercial L band
purpose, capabilities and
limitations
TR:
                                         -                                                                  -         A         -         -
https://private.afca.af.mil/mss/
http://www.iridium.com;
http://www.inmarsat.com/default.
aspx
25. MULTICHANNEL
SATELLITE
CHARACTERISTICS
TR: DISA Circulars 800-70-1
25.1. Satellite Access Processes
25.1.1. Satellite Database               -                                                                  A         A         -         -
25.1.2. Satellite Access Request         -                                                                  A         A         -         -
25.1.3. Gateway Access
                                         -                                                                  A         A         -         -
Request
25.1.4. Circuits (NIPR, SIPR,
                                         -                                                                  A         A         -         -
DSN, DRSN, etc.)
25.2. Satellite System Segments
principles, capabilities and
limitations
25.2.1. Space Segment                    -                                                                  A         -         -         -
25.2.2. Command and Control
                                         -                                                                  A         -         -         -
Segment
25.2.3. Terminal Segment                 -                                                                  A         -         -         -
25.3. Acquisition and tracking
                                         -                                                                  -         B         -         -
principles




                                                                    61                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                    STS 3D1X3


                                                               3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                             INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                      2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                   &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                  WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                       TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                          Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                                DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS
25.4. Calculate Satellite look
                                         -                                                                 2b         A         -         -
angles
25.5. Electromagnetic
                                         -                                                                  -         B         -         -
interference (EMI) protection
25.6. Electromagnetic pulse
                                         -                                                                  -         B         -         -
(EMP) protection
25.7. Airborne satellite antenna
applications
25.7.1. Effects of flight on
                                         -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Antenna Propagation
25.7.2. Antenna configuration on
                                         -                                                                  -         A         -         -
airframes
25.8. Tracking Systems
principles, capabilities and
limitations
TR: Applicable TOs and manuals
25.8.1. Tracking feed system             -                                                                  -         B         -         -
25.8.2. Scanner                          -                                                                  -         B         -         -
25.8.3. Tracking down converter          -                                                                  -         B         -         -
25.8.4. Antenna position control
                                         -                                                                  -         B         -         -
and indicators
25.8.5. Antenna drive systems            -                                                                  -         B         -         -
25.9. Control, monitoring and
                                         -                                                                  -         B         -         -
alarm equipment
25.10. Transmit Systems
principles, capabilities and
limitations
TR: Applicable TOs and manuals
25.10.1. Transmitter                     -                                                                  A         B         -         -
25.10.2. Up converters                   -                                                                  A         B         -         -
25.10.3. Power amplifiers (PA)           -                                                                  A         B         -         -
25.11. Receive Systems
principles, capabilities and
limitations
TR: Applicable TOs and manuals
25.11.1. Receiver                        -                                                                  A         B         -         -
25.11.2. Low noise amplifiers
                                         -                                                                  A         B         -         -
(LNA)
25.11.3. Down converters                 -                                                                  A         B         -         -
25.12. Information Processing
25.12.1. Principles, capabilities
                                         -                                                                  A         B         -         -
and limitations of modems
25.12.2. Principles, capabilities
                                         -                                                                  B         B         -         -
and limitations of multiplexers
25.13. Timing and Frequency
Standards
25.13.1. Principles, capabilities
and limitations of timing and            -                                                                  -         B         -         -
frequency distribution systems
25.13.2. Principles, capabilities
                                         -                                                                  -         B         -         -
and limitations of timing receivers
25.13.3. Timing and
                                         -                                                                  A         -         -         -
synchronization
25.14. Network Bandwidth
Management Equipment



                                                                    62                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                    STS 3D1X3


                                                               3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                             INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                      2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                   &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                  WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                       TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                          Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                                DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS
25.14.1. Principles, capabilities
                                         -                                                                  A         B         -         -
and limitations
25.14.2. Multiplexing equipment
25.14.2.1. Principles, capabilities
                                         -                                                                  A         -         -         -
and limitations
25.14.2.2. Configure multiplexer         -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
25.14.2.3. Perform operational
                                         -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
check
25.14.3. Time Division
Multiplexer (TDM) equipment
25.14.3.1. Principles, capabilities
                                         -                                                                  A         -         -         -
and limitations
25.14.3.2. Perform operational
                                         -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
check
25.14.3.3. Configure                     -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
25.14.3.4. Troubleshoot to a
                                         -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
faulty LRU
26. MICROWAVE
TRANSMISSION SYSTEMS
AND EQUIPMENT
TR: TO 31-1-141-11-WA-1, TO
31-1-141-12-WA-1
26.1. Line-of-sight radio systems
principles, capabilities and             -                                                                  A         B         -         -
limitations
26.2. Troposcatter radio systems
26.2.1. TROPO theory                     -                                                                  -         -         -         -
26.2.2. Principles, capabilities
                                         -                                                                  A         B         -         -
and limitations
26.2.3. Calculate TROPO Total
                                         -                                                                  -         -         -         -
propagation Loss (TPL)
26.2.4. Calculate TROPO
                                         -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Receive signal level (RSL)
26.2.5. Calculate TROPO
                                         -                                                                  -         -         -         -
median receiver input signal level
26.2.6. Calculate TROPO
minimum receiver input signal            -                                                                  -         -         -         -
level
26.2.7. Calculate TROPO fade
                                         -                                                                  -         -         -         -
margin and reliability
26.2.8. Calculate TROPO total
                                         -                                                                  -         -         -         -
path loss
27. PERFORMANCE
ASSESSMENT
TR: Applicable circuit/system
standards; DISA Circulars 300-
175-9, 310-70-1 and 310-70-57;
MIL-STD-188-100
27.1. Identify facts and terms
associated with performance              -                                                                  -         A         -         -
assessments
27.2. Identify circuit and link
                                         -                                                                  -         -         -         -
performance standards
27.3. Perform system testing             -                                                                  -         -         -         -
27.4. Compile systems test data          -                                                                  -         -         -         -
27.5. Evaluate systems test data         -                                                                  -         -         -         -




                                                                    63                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                 STS 3D1X3


                                                            3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                          INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                   2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES               WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                    TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                       Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                             DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS

27.6. Report link status              -                                                                  -         -         -         -
27.7. Monitor circuit and link
                                      -                                                                  -         -         -         -
quality
28. LINK OPERATIONS
TR: Applicable DISA Circulars;
Army Space Command (ASC)
1;CJCSI 6250.01C, manuals;
System Control and Operational
Concepts (SCOC); and TOs
28.1. Identify the principles of
establishing a communications         -                                                                  -         B         -         -
link
28.2. Identify Counter-Counter
                                      -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Measures facts and terms
28.3. Develop After Action
                                      -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Reports
28.4. Maintain station logs           -                                                                  -         -         -         -
28.5. Accomplish the following
DISA reports:
TR: DISA Circulars 270-A85-1,
310-55-1 and 800-70-1
28.5.1. SATCOM Equipment
                                      -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Reports (SERS)
28.5.2. HAZCON reports                -                                                                  -         -         -         -
29. ANTENNA PRINCIPLES
TR: http://www.ntia.doc.gov; TO
31-1-141-12-WA-1
29.1. Common Antennas
29.1.1. Dipole                        -                                                                  A         A         -         -
29.1.2. Whip                          -                                                                  A         A         -         -
29.1.3. Longwire                      -                                                                  A         A         -         -
29.1.4. Horn                          -                                                                  A         A         -         -
29.1.5. Helical                       -                                                                  A         A         -         -
29.1.6. Parabolic                     -                                                                  A         A         -         -
29.1.7. Reflector                     -                                                                  -         -         -         -
29.1.8. Array                         -                                                                  A         A         -         -
29.2. Antenna Efficiency              -                                                                  A         B         -         -
29.3. Antenna Waves                   -                                                                  A         A         -         -
29.4. Antenna site selection and
                                      -                                                                  A         B         -         -
configuration
29.5. Mutual Interference             -                                                                  A         B         -         -
29.6. Antenna Gain                    -                                                                  A         B         -         -
29.7. Impedance Matching              -                                                                  A         B         -         -
29.8. Resonant & non resonant
                                      -                                                                  A         B         -         -
antennas
29.9. Law of Reciprocity              -                                                                  A         A         -         -
29.10. Polarization                   -                                                                  A         B         -         -
29.11. Relationship of antenna
                                      -                                                                  A         B         -         -
height and take off angle



                                                                 64                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                 STS 3D1X3


                                                            3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                          INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                   2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES               WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                    TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                       Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                             DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS
29.12. Calculation of Electrical
                                      -                                                                  A         A         -         -
Length
29.13. Calculation of physical
                                      -                                                                  A         A         -         -
length
29.14. Beamwidth                      -                                                                  A         A         -         -
29.15. Deployable Equipment
29.15.1. Deployable antennas          -                                                                  A         -         -         -
29.15.2. Deployable antenna
                                      -                                                                  A         -         -         -
masts
29.15.3. Erect selected
deployable antenna masts and          -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
antennas
30. ELECTROMAGNETIC
WAVE PROPAGATION
THEORY
TR: TO 31-1-141 Series
30.1. Radio Wave Propagation
30.1.1. Freespace                     -                                                                  A         B         -         -
30.1.2. Refraction                    -                                                                  A         B         -         -
30.1.3. Reflection                    -                                                                  A         B         -         -
30.1.4. Diffraction                   -                                                                  A         B         -         -
30.2. Path loss                       -                                                                  A         B         -         -
30.3. Atmospheric attenuation         -                                                                  A         B         -         -
30.4. Multipathing                    -                                                                  A         B         -         -
30.5. Free space loss                 -                                                                  A         B         -         -
30.6. Anomalous propagation           -                                                                  A         B         -         -
31. JAM RESISTANT
COMMUNICATIONS
TR: AFTTP(I) 3-2.4.9; CJCSI
6231.01C "Link 16 Spectrum De-
confliction within the US&P",
“HAVE QUICK Multi-service
Tactics, Techniques and
Procedures for HAVE QUICK
Radios", JSUG "JTIDS/MIDS
Spectrum Users Guide",
Talk II - SINCGARS "Multiservice
Communications Procedures for
the SINCGARS"
31.1. Frequency Hopping Theory        -                                                                  A         B         -         -
31.2. Spread Spectrum Theory          -                                                                  -         A         -         -
31.3. Jam Resistant Systems
                                      -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Employment
31.4. Frequency Agile Systems
31.4.1. Have Quick Systems            -                                                                  A         B         -         -
31.4.2. Single Channel Ground
and Airborne Radio System             -                                                                  A         B         -         -
(SINCGARS)
31.4.3. Joint Tactical Radio
                                      -                                                                  A         A         -         -
System




                                                                 65                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                   STS 3D1X3


                                                              3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                            INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                     2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                  &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                 WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                      TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                         Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                               DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS
32. SOLAR IONOSPHERIC
PHYSICS
TR: ACP 190 (C)
32.1. Physical & non physical
emissions from the sun
32.1.1. Ionization                      -                                                                  -         A         -         -
32.1.2. Recombination                   -                                                                  -         A         -         -
32.1.3. Earth’s atmosphere              -                                                                  -         A         -         -
32.1.4. Sunspots                        -                                                                  -         A         -         -
32.1.5. Sunspot number                  -                                                                  -         A         -         -
32.1.6. Solar flares                    -                                                                  -         A         -         -
32.1.7. Solar variations                -                                                                  -         A         -         -
32.2. Skywave Fundamentals
32.2.1. Skip distance                   -                                                                  -         A         -         -
32.2.2. Skip Zone                       -                                                                  -         A         -         -
32.2.3. Critical angle                  -                                                                  -         A         -         -
32.2.4. Critical frequency              -                                                                  -         A         -         -
32.2.5. Maximum Usable
                                        -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Frequency (MUF)
32.2.6. Frequency Optimum
                                        -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Transmission (FOT)
32.2.7. Lowest Usable
                                        -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Frequency (LUF)
32.2.8. Ionospheric sounders            -                                                                  -         A         -         -
32.2.9. Automatic Link
                                        -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Establishment (ALE)
33. LAND MOBILE RADIO
(LMR) TRANSMISSION
SYSTEMS
TR: AFJQS 3D1XX-210W
33.1. Simplex                           -                                                                  B         B         -         -
33.2. Duplex/Repeater                   -                                                                  B         B         -         -
33.3. Trunking                          -                                                                  B         B         -         -
34. RF SPECTRUM
INTERFERENCE RESOLUTION
TR: AFI 10-707; CJCSM 3320-
02C; Equipment user guide
34.1. Joint Spectrum
Interference Resolution (JSIR)          -                                                                  -         A         -         -
Program
34.2. Air Force Spectrum
Interference Resolution (AFSIR)         -                                                                  A         B         -         -
Program
35. MULTIBAND SATELLITE
SYSTEMS
TR: Commercial Publications
35.1. Principles, Capabilities and
Limitations of multiband satellite      -                                                                  B         B         -         -
terminals
35.2. Antenna systems                   -                                                                  B         A         -         -




                                                                   66                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                 STS 3D1X3


                                                            3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                          INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                   2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES               WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                    TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                       Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                             DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS

35.3. Power distribution system       -                                                                  A         -         -         -
35.4. Order wire systems
35.4.1. RFMOW System
                                      -                                                                  A         B         -         -
Overview
35.4.2. RFMOW User Interfaces         -                                                                  A         B         -         -
35.4.3. RFMOW Operations              -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
35.4.4. RFMOW Alignment
                                      -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
Procedures
35.5. Control, Monitor and Alarm
                                      -                                                                  B         -         -         -
system
35.6. Perform power up/down
                                      -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
procedures
35.7. Configure the baseband
                                      -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
equipment
35.8. Perform baseband
                                      -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
equipment operational check
35.9. Configure transmit and
                                      -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
receive equipment
35.10. Perform transmit and
receive equipment operational         -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
check
35.11. Configure the antenna
                                      -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
system
35.12. Configure Control,
                                      -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
Monitor and Alarm system
35.13. Interface external
                                      -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
multiplexing equipment
35.14. Troposcatter Satellite
Support Radio (TSSR)
35.14.1. Characteristics              -                                                                  A         -         -         -
35.14.2. Controls and Indicators      -                                                                  B         -         -         -
35.14.3. Configure TSSR               -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
35.15. TDC RF module
35.15.1. Characteristics              -                                                                  A         -         -         -
35.15.2. Controls and Indicators      -                                                                  B         -         -         -
35.15.3. Configure TDC RF
                                      -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
Module
36. EXPEDITIONARY
CONCEPTS
TR: AEF On-Line
https://aef.afpc.randolph.af.mil
36.1. Deployment Process              -                                                                  A         -         -         -
36.2. Perform the following
functions to establish deployed
communication services:
36.2.1. Establish an HF
                                      -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
command and control net
36.2.2. Establish UHF line of
                                      -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
sight communications
36.2.3. Establish UHF TACSAT
                                      -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
link
36.2.4. Establish a mass alert
                                      -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
system




                                                                 67                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                   STS 3D1X3


                                                              3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                            INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                     2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                  &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                 WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                      TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                         Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                               DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS
36.2.5. Establish
communications services using           -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
SHF SATCOM terminals
36.2.6. Establish
communications services using           -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
microwave LOS radios
36.2.7. Establish voice and data
communications services using
                                        -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
network bandwidth management
and multiplexing equipment
37. TACTICAL VHF/UHF
TRANSCEIVER
TR: TO 31R2-2PRC113 Series;
TO 31R2-2URC62 Series
37.1. Capabilities, configurations
                                        -                                                                  A         -         -         -
and limitations
37.2. Controls and Indicators           -                                                                  A         -         -         -
37.3. Function of modules               -                                                                  B         -         -         -
37.4. Operate the transceiver           -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
37.5. Perform selected
Preventive Maintenance                  -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
Inspections
37.6. Perform selected
                                        -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
alignments
37.7. Troubleshoot to the LRU           -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
38. HIGH FREQUENCY (HF)
TRANSCEIVER EQUIPMENT
TR: Commercial Publications
(Harris Publication #10515-0103-
4100 and Harris Publication #
10515-0103-4300)
38.1. Capabilities and limitations      -                                                                  A         -         -         -
38.2. Controls and Indicators           -                                                                  A         -         -         -
38.3. Function of modules               -                                                                  B         -         -         -
38.4. Operate the HF transceiver        -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
38.5. Perform Preventative
                                        -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
Maintenance Inspection
38.6. Troubleshoot to the Line
                                        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Replaceable Unit
39. BATTLEFIELD NETWORK
LINKS
TR: AFTTP(I) 3-2.27,
Commercial Publication
(Raytheon Reference
# 09-S-0296)
39.1. Tactical Digital Information
                                        -                                                                  A         A         -         -
Link (TADIL) A
39.2. TADIL B                           -                                                                  A         A         -         -
39.3. Link 16/TADIL J                   -                                                                  A         A         -         -
39.4. Link 11                           -                                                                  A         A         -         -
39.5. Situation Awareness Data
                                        -                                                                  A         A         -         -
Link (SADL)




                                                                   68                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                  STS 3D1X3


                                                             3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                           INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                    2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                 &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                     TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                        Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                              DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS
39.6. Enhanced Position
Location Reporting System
(EPLRS)
TR:                                    -                                                                  A         A         -         -
http://jcs.dtic.mil/j6/cceb/acps
https://www.doctrine.usmc.mil/sig
npubs/r3403a.pdf
39.7. Advanced waveforms               -                                                                  -         A         -         -
39.8. Joint Tactical Information
                                       -                                                                  A         B         -         -
Distribution System (JTIDS)
40. RF DEVICES TO IP
NETWORKING
TR: Commercial Publications
40.1. Methods of interfacing RF
                                       -                                                                  A         -         -         -
devices with IP networks
40.2. Interface selected RF
                                       -                                                                 2b         -         -         -
equipment with an IP network
41. ELECTRONIC COMBAT
TR: AFI 10-706 and AFT 51-45
41.1. Electronic combat
phenomenon as it applies               -                                                                  -         A         -         -
to/impacts RF systems
41.2. Concepts of electronic
                                       -                                                                  -         A         -         -
attack (EA)
41.3. Concepts of electronic
                                       -                                                                  -         A         -         -
warfare support (ES)
41.4. Concepts of electronic
                                       -                                                                  -         A         -         -
protection (EP)
42. AIR FORCE JOB
QUALIFICATION STANDARDS
APPLICABLE TO AFSC 3D1X3
TR: AFI 33-150, 36-2233, MPTO
00-33A-1001, CFETP 3D1X3
42.1. AFJQS3D1X3-200K TDC
                                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Transmission
42.2. AFJQS3D1X3-201TA
Modular Control Equipment              -                                                                  -         -         -         -
(Radios)
42.3. AFJQS3D1X3-202E
Ground Multi-band Terminal             -                                                                  -         -         -         -
(GMT)
42.4. AFJQS3D1X3-203TA
AN/TRC-170 (V2) AND (V3)               -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Mobile Tropo Radio Set
42.5. AFJQS3D1X3-203TC
AN/GRC-239 Tropo Satellite             -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Support Radio
42.6. AFJQS3D1X3-203V
                                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
AN/PSC-5 Radio Set
42.7. AFJQS3D1X3-204C
AN/FSQ-143(V) Weapons                  -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Storage and Security System
42.8. AFJQS3D1X3-205C
AN/TSC-154 Secure Mobile Anti-
                                       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Jam Reliable Tactical Terminal
(SMART-T)
42.9. AFJQS3D1X3-205SB
AN/GRC-171 B(V)4, Ultra High           -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Frequency Transciever




                                                                  69                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                               STS 3D1X3


                                                          3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                        INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                 2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND              &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES             WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                  TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                     Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                           DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS
42.10. AFJQS3D1X3-206G
AN/PRC-117 Tactical Frequency       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Hopping Radio
42.11. AFJQS3D1X3-206N
AN/URC-119(V) HF
                                    -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Communications System-
Maintenance
42.12. AFJQS3D1X3-206TA OK-
                                    -                                                                  -         -         -         -
423/G Control Monitor Group
42.13. AFJQS3D1X3-206V
ICBM UHF Communications             -                                                                  -         -         -         -
System
42.14. AFJQS3D1X3-206Y
AN/GSC-42 (V) AFSATCOM              -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Terminal
42.15. AFJQS3D1X3-207EB
AN/GRC-206 (V) 5                    -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Communications Central
42.16. AFJQS3D1X3-207EC
                                    -                                                                  -         -         -         -
AN/PRC-104 Radio Set
42.17. AFJQS3D1X3-207ED
Single Channel Ground and
                                    -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Airborne Radio System
(SINCGARS)
42.18. AFJQS3D1X3-207G
AN/GRC-221 Aircraft Alerting
                                    -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Communication EMP
(Electromagnetic Pulse) System
42.19. AFJQS3D1X3-207NB
AN/TSC-94A (V) 1/2 and
AN/TSC-100A (V) 1/2 Ground          -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Mobile Forces Satellite
Communications Terminals
42.20. AFJQS3D1X3-207SB
AN/USC-28(V) Satellite              -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Communications Set
42.21. AFJQS3D1X3-207SF
Standard Tactical Entry Point       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
(STEP)
42.22. AFJQS3D1X3-208D
AN/USC-60A Flyaway Tri-Band         -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Satellite Terminal (FTSAT )
42.23. AFJQS3D1X3-208E
AN/FRC-175 Peace Keeper (PK)        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
AFSATCOM System
42.24. AFJQS3D1X3-208F
AN/FRC-175 Minuteman                -                                                                  -         -         -         -
AFSATCOMM System
42.25. AFJQS3D1X3-209F
AN/UMQ-13, MARK IVB                 -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Meterological Data Station
42.26. AFJQS3D1X3-209G
Convoy Communications               -                                                                  -         -         -         -
(CONCOMM)
42.27. AFJQS3D1X3-209H
PRC-148 Multiband Inter/Intra       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Team Radio
42.28. AFJQS3D1X3-215A
AN/PSC-11 Single Channel Anti-      -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Jam Manportable Terminal




                                                               70                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                 STS 3D1X3


                                                            3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                          INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                   2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES               WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                    TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                       Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                             DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS
42.29. AFJQS3D1X3-215B
AN/FSC-125 Fixed Site Single
Channel Anti-jam Man portable         -                                                                  -         -         -         -
(SCAMP) (FSS) Communication
Set
42.30. AFJQS3D1X3-215C
                                      -                                                                  -         -         -         -
AN/PRC-150 Manpack Radio
42.31. AFJQS3D1X3-215J
AN/GSC-52 Medium Satellite            -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Communications Terminal
42.32. AFJQS3D1X3-215N
AN/FRC-181(V)1,2,3 Milstar            -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Terminal
42.33. AFJQS3D1X3-215S
AN/URC-119(V) HF
                                      -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Communications System-
Operations
42.34. AFQTP3D1X3-207SA
Digital Communications                -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Subsystem
42.35. AFQTP3D1X3-208A Ultra
High Frequency Demand
                                      -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Assigned Multiple Access
Familiarization
42.36. AFQTP3D1X3-213B
Commercial Satellite                  -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Communications Services
42.37. AFQTP3D1X3-216C
Laser and Optics Systems              -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Handbook
43. AIR FORCE JOB
QUALIFICATION STANDARDS
APPLICABLE TO 3D1XX
AFSCs
TR: AFI 33-150, 36-2233, MPTO
00-33A-1001, CFETP 3D1X3
43.1. AFJQS3D1XX-200F
Engineering Installation (EI)         -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Team Chief
43.2. AFJQS3D1XX-201C
                                      5                                                                  -         -         -         -
Corrosion Prevention and Control
43.3. AFJQS3D1XX-201P Work
Center Test Equipment                 -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Management
43.4. AFJQS3D1XX-201X
Engineering Installation (EI)         -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Quality Assurance
43.5. AFJQS3D1XX-204V
AN/FCC-100(V)7 & 9 Multiplexer        -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Set
43.6. AFJQS3D1XX-205Q
AN/GRT-21/22 VHF/UHF                  -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Transmitter
43.7. AFJQS3D1XX-205R
AN/GRR-23/24, VHF/UHF                 -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Receiver
43.8. AFJQS3D1XX-205SA
AN/GRC-171(V1, AV1) UHF
                                      -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Transceiver and AN/GRC-211
VHF Transceiver




                                                                 71                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                               STS 3D1X3


                                                          3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                        INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                 2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND              &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES             WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                  TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                     Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                           DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS
43.9. AFJQS3D1XX-206C Digital
                                    -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Voice Recorder System (DVRS)
43.10. AFJQS3D1XX-206F RT-
1319/URC, AN/PRC-113,
                                    -                                                                  -         -         -         -
AN/TRC-176 and AN/VRC-83
Radio Set Maintenance
43.11. AFJQS3D1XX-206TB
                                    -                                                                  -         -         -         -
CU-547/GR Antenna Coupler
43.12. AFJQS3D1XX-206W
Minuteman MEECN Program             -                                                                  -         -         -         -
(MMP)
43.13. AFJQS3D1XX-207R
AN/TSE-135 (V2) Joint Base          -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Station
43.14. AFJQS3D1XX-207X
                                    -                                                                  -         -         -         -
AN/TRC-187A Time Signal Set
43.15. AFJQS3D1XX-208L Joint
                                    -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Range Extension (JTEP)
43.16. AFJQS3D1XX-208U
AN/TRC-215 Communication            -                                                                  -         -         -         -
System
43.17. AFJQS3D1XX-210AB
                                    -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Scope Shield II Maintenance
43.18. AFJQS3D1XX-210W
Personal Wireless                   -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Communication System
43.19. AFJQS3D1XX-211D Air
                                    -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Force Tactical Receive System
43.20. AFJQS3D1XX-218A
                                    -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Predator
43.21. AFJQS3D1XX-230U
                                    -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Network Protocol Analyzer
43.22. AFQTP3D1XX-200S
                                    -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Basic/Advance Soldering
43.23. AFQTP3D1XX-206M
Introduction to The Ionosphere      7                                                                  -         -         -         -
Handbook
44. AIR FORCE JOB
QUALIFICATION STANDARDS
APPLICABLE TO 3DXXX
AFSCs
TR: AFI 33-150, 36-2233, MPTO
00-33A-1001, CFETP 3D1X3
44.1. AFJQS3DXXX-200EC
AN/GSQ-272 Distributed
                                    -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Common Ground Systems Data
Links
44.2. AFJQS3DXXX-200N DoD
8570 IA Workforce Improvement       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Program
44.3. AFJQS3DXXX-200TBA
Training Business Area (TBA)        5                                                                  -         -         -         -
Handbook
44.4. AFJQS3DXXX-201G
                                    -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Quality Assurance
44.5. AFJQS3DXXX-201TC
                                    -                                                                  -         -         -         -
JTIDS Module
44.6. AFJQS3DXXX-212E
Combined AN/PYQ-10 (C)
Simple Key Loader and AN/CYZ-       -                                                                  -         -         -         -
10/10A (V3) Data Transfer
Device



                                                               72                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                               STS 3D1X3


                                                          3. Certification for OJT                      4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                        INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                 2. CORE                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND              &                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL  9 SKILL
TECHNICAL REFERENCES             WARTIME    A       B             C                  D      E        LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL
                                  TASKS    START   STOP      TRAINEE          TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                                     Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                           DATE    DATE      INITIALS         INITIALS    INITIALS
44.7. AFJQS3DXXX-212U
                                    -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Unified Command Suite
44.8. AFJQS3DXXX-213I Military
                                    -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Construction Program
44.9. AFJQS3DXXX-230T
                                    -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Remedy
44.10. AFQTP3DXXX-200D
Integrated Maintenance Data         -                                                                  -         -         -         -
System Handbook
44.11. AFQTP3DXXX-201M
Cyberspace Infrastructure           -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Planning System (CIPS)
44.12. AFQTP3DXXX-213R
Support Agreements and
                                    -                                                                  -         -         -         -
Administrative Contract
Management
44.13. AFQTP3DXXX-232A
Communications and Information
                                    7                                                                  -         -         -         -
Work Center Supervisor's
Handbook




                                                               73                                             Attachment 2
Section B - Course Objective List
4. Measurement. Each objective is indicated as follows: W indicates task or subject knowledge which is
measured using a written test, PC indicates required task performance which is measured with a
performance progress check and PC/W indicates separate measurement of both knowledge and
performance elements using a written test and a progress check.
5. Standard. The standard is 70% on written examinations. Standards for performance measurement
are indicated in the objective and delineated on the individual progress checklist. Instructor assistance is
provided as needed during the progress check and students may be required to repeat all or part of the
behavior until satisfactory performance is attained.
6. Proficiency Level. Most task performance is taught to the “2b” proficiency level which means the
student can do most parts of the task, but does need assistance on the hardest parts of the task (partially
proficient). The student can also determine step by step procedures for doing the task.
Section C - Support Materials
7. The following list of support materials is not all-inclusive; however, it covers the most frequently
referenced areas. The most current products can be found at the 81st TRSS/TSQ web page and are
available for download from the web site at
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=20946. Procedures for requesting product
development are found in AFI 33-154.
Section D - Training Course Index
8. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for continuation/
supplemental training. For information on all formal courses, refer to the Air Force Education and
Training Course Announcements (ETCA) database at https://etca.randolph.af.mil/default1.asp
9. Air Force In-Residence Courses.

      Course Number                                  Course Title                               Location
  E3AZR3D153 01AB         Expeditionary Combat Support Radio Communications                     Keesler
                                                                                             Ft Gordon, 338
  E7AST3D153 01CA         Ground Multiband Terminal O/I Maintenance (MTT)
                                                                                                TRS/OL-B
                                                                                             Ft Gordon, 338
  EBAZA3D153 01BA         SATCOM Strategic Terminals AN/GSC-52 (V) (Army # 102-F104)
                                                                                                TRS/OL-B
                          Digital Communications Satellite Subsystem (Army # 102-F40 (2)     Ft Gordon, 338
  EBAZA3D153 01DA
                          Version 003)                                                          TRS/OL-B
                                                                                             Ft Gordon, 338
  E9AZA3D153 01AA         MILSTAR SMART-T Operator/Maintainer (Army # 260-F9 (OS))
                                                                                                TRS/OL-B
                          AEHF Mission Planning Element (MPE) Comm Planning – Tactical       Ft Gordon, 338
  E9AZA3D153 01BA
                          (Army # 4C-F72/260-F24 (CT)                                           TRS/OL-B
                          MILSTAR Communications Planning System (CPS) (Army # 4C-           Ft Gordon, 338
  EBAZA3D153 01EA
                          F64 / 260-F20 (CT))                                                   TRS/OL-B
                                                                                             Ft Gordon, 338
  ECAZP3D153 01DA         MILSTAR Operations and Maintenance (101-F33)
                                                                                                TRS/OL-B
  J8AZR3D157 0F5A         Fiber Optic Cable Installation, Splicing and Maintenance             Sheppard
  J7AST3D157 0F5A         Fiber Optic Cable Installation, Splicing and Maintenance (MTT)    Various Locations
  E3AZR3DXXX 00DA         High reliability soldering and connections                            Keesler
  E3AZR3DXXX 00AA         Cyberspace Support Quality Assurance Procedures Course                Keesler
  E7AST3DXXX 00AA         Cyberspace Support Quality Assurance Procedures Course (MTT)      Various Locations
  E3ABR3D133 00AB         8570                                                                  Keesler
  EBAZAXXXXX 01AA         Joint C4 Planners Course (JC4PC) (Army # 4C-F55/260-F15)         Ft Gordon, 338 TRS




                                                           74
10. Air University Courses.

For a current listing of Air University courses go to http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/.

11. Exportable Courses.

For a current list of the available CBT courses refer to https://www.my.af.mil/faf/FAF/fafHome.jsp, (Under
AF e-Learning).


Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements

12. There are currently no MAJCOM unique requirements. This area is reserved.




                                                       75
