DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                       CFETP 2R1X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                                           Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-5000                                                      1 September 2013




                               AFSC 2R1X1

      MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT
                PRODUCTION
    (Plans, Scheduling and Documentation)




          CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
            AND TRAINING PLAN
      ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
                  www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.


         RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
        CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
     MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT PRODUCTION SPECIALTY
                       AFSC 2R1X1

                             Table of Contents


PART I                                                Page

Preface                                                1

Abbreviations/Terms Explained                          2

Section A, General Information                         4
    Purpose of the CFETP
    Use of the CFETP
    Coordination and Approval

Section B, Career Field Progression and Information   5
    Specialty Descriptions
    Skill/Career Progression
         Apprentice Level (3)
         Journeyman Level (5)
         Craftsman Level (7)
         Superintendent Level (9)
         Training Decisions
    Community College of the Air Force
    Career Field Path

Section C, Skill Level Training Requirements          12
    Purpose
    Specialty Qualification Requirements
         Apprentice Level (3)
         Journeyman Level (5)
         Craftsman Level (7)
         Superintendent Level (9)

Section D, Resource Constraints                       14

PART II

  Section A, Course Objectives List                   15

  Section B, Support Material                         15




                                      iii
        Section C, Training Course Index               16

        Section D, MAJCOM Unique Requirements          17

        Section E, Specialty Training Standard (STS)   18

     STS Attachments

     1. Proficiency Code Key                           21

     2. Qualitative Requirements                       23




Supersedes: CFETP 2R1X1, 5 December 2008

OPR: 363 TRS/TRR
Certified by: Mr. Donnie Manos, GS-12 (363 TRS/TRR)
Approved by: CMSgt William Givens (HQ USAF/A4LF)
Number of Printed Pages: 39


                                           iv
                CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
             MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT PRODUCTION SPECIALTY
                               AFSC 2R1X1

PART I

PREFACE

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) for AFSC 2R1X1, Maintenance
Management Production Specialty is a comprehensive education and training document that
identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support resources, and minimum
core task requirements for this specialty. The CFETP will provide personnel a clear career path
to success and instill rigor in all aspects of career field training.

NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty position
qualification training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts; supervisors will use both parts of the CFETP to plan,
manage, and control training.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C
associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, training, and other).
Section D indicates resource constraints. Some examples are funds, manpower, equipment, and
facilities.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A contains the course objective list and training
standards supervisors use to determine if Airmen have satisfied Air Education and Training
Command (AETC) training requirements. Section B identifies available support materials. An
example is a Qualification Training Package (QTP) developed to support proficiency training.
Section C identifies a training course index supervisors use to determine resources available to
support training; included here are both mandatory and optional courses. Section D identifies
Major Command (MAJCOM) unique training requirements supervisors use to determine
additional training requirements unique to the MAJCOM. Section E identifies the Specialty
Training Standard (STS) and includes duties, tasks, and technical references to support training;
AETC conducted training; wartime course requirements; core tasks; and correspondence course
requirements.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive
effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan will enable us to
train today’s work force for tomorrow’s jobs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part
II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.




                                                  1
ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training (AT): Formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in one
or more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance
their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career Airmen at the advanced level of
the AFS.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS): A comprehensive task list that describes a
particular job type or duty position. They are used by supervisors to document task qualifications.
The tasks on an AFJQS are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP): A CFETP is a comprehensive,
multipurpose document covering the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field.
It outlines a logical growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career
field training identifiable, eliminate duplication, and ensure this training is budget defensible.

Certification: A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required
standards.

Certification Official: A person the supervisor assigns to determine an individual’s ability to
perform a task to required standards.

Continuation Training: Additional training exceeding requirements with emphasis on present
or future duty assignments.

Core Task: A task Air Force Career Field Managers (AFCFMs) identify as a minimum
qualification requirement within an Air Force Specialty regardless of duty position.

Course Objective List (COL):          A publication identifying the tasks and knowledge
requirements, and respective standards provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level in this
career field. Supervisors use the COL to assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance
with AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Programs.

Course Training Standard (CTS): Training Standard that identifies the training members will
receive in a specific course not covered in the CFETP.

Critical Task: Additional tasks, identified by MAJCOM Functional Managers, commanders,
and supervisors as being required for skill-level upgrade training. When designated, certify these
core tasks using normal core task certification procedures.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST): A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training: Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video,
or other necessary means to supplement training.

Field Technical Training (Type 4): Special or regular on-site training conducted by a Training
Detachment (TD) or by a Mobile Training Team (MTT).

                                                 2
Initial Skills Training (IST): A formal resident course which results in the award of a 3-skill
level AFSC.

Instructional System Development (ISD): A deliberate and orderly process for developing,
validating, and reviewing instructional programs that ensures personnel are taught the knowledge
and skills essential for successful job performance.

Occupational Analysis Report (OAR): A detailed report showing the results of an
occupational survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT): Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training at the duty location used to
certify personnel for both skill level upgrade and duty position qualification.

Qualification Training (QT): Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify
an Airman in a specific duty position. This training occurs both during and after the upgrade
training process. It is designed to provide the performance skill / knowledge training required to
do the job.

Qualification Training Package (QTP): An instructional package designed for use at the unit
to qualify, or aid qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of equipment. It may
be printed, computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.

Resource Constraints: Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and
equipment that preclude desired training from being accomplished.

Specialty Training Standard (STS): An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force
Specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge an Airman may be expected to perform or to know on
the job. It serves as a contract between the Air Education and Training Command and the
functional user to show which of the overall training requirements for an Air Force Specialty
Code are taught in formal schools, career development courses, and exportable courses.

Supplemental Training. Formal, standardized training within an AFS that is in addition to
required initial skills training and skill level upgrade training. It may support new/newly
assigned equipment, methods, and/or technology.

Task Certifier. See Certification Official

Training Business Area (TBA). TBA is a Net-Centric, GCSS-AF IF Web-Based application
providing Air Force Warfighters with global, real-time visibility into the technical qualifications,
certifications and training status of logistics, communications and information professionals Air
Force wide. TBA supports base, wing and work center level training management activities by
automating training management business processes. The primary users of TBA will be any
personnel directly involved in base level training management and certification activities. TBA
is being developed and maintained by 754th Electronic Systems Group, Installation and
Logistics, Maintenance Flight (754 ELSG/ILM) at Maxwell-Gunter AFB.



                                                 3
Upgrade Training (UGT): A mixture of mandatory courses, task qualification, QTPs, and
CDCs required for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-skill levels.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW): A forum, co-chaired by the AFCFM and
Training Pipeline Manager, of MAJCOM Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) functional
managers, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training personnel that determines career
ladder training requirements.




                                            4
Section A - General Information

1. Purpose. This CFETP provides information necessary for AFCFM, MAJCOM Functional
Managers (MFMs), commanders, training managers, supervisors and trainers to plan, develop,
manage, and conduct an effective career field training program. This plan outlines the training
that individuals in AFSC 2R1X1 should receive to develop and progress throughout their career.
This plan identifies initial skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency training.
Initial skills training is the AFS specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air
Force or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. Normally, this training
is conducted by AETC at one of the technical training centers. Upgrade training identifies the
mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, and correspondence course completion
requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-skill levels. Qualification training is actual hands-on task
performance training designed to qualify an Airman in a specific duty position. This training
program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the
performance skills/knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training is formal specialty
training used for selected Airmen. Proficiency training is additional training, either in-residence
or exportable advanced training courses, or on-the-job (OJT), provided to personnel to increase
their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP has several
purposes, some are:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field training
program. Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an
individual's career.

1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.

1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and the
training delivery method.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints, which impact full implementation of the desired
career field training process.

2. Use of the CFETP. The CFETP will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure
comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop/revise formal resident, non-resident, field and
exportable training based on requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of
the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining
resources needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial, upgrade,
and proficiency requirements. Identified requirements can be satisfied by OJT, resident training,
contract training, or exportable courses. MAJCOM-developed training to support this AFS is
identified for inclusion into this plan and must not duplicate other available training resources.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan.
The lists of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

                                                 5
3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority. MAJCOM
representatives and AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field
training requirements. The AETC training manager for this specialty will initiate an annual
review of this document by AETC and MFMs to ensure currency and accuracy. Using the list of
courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.

Section B - Career Progression and Information

4. Specialty Description.

4.1. Specialty Summary. Refer to the AFECD on the Air Force Personnel Services website
through the Air Force Portal.

Plans, schedules and organizes use and maintenance of aerospace vehicle, engines,
munitions/armaments, space systems, and aerospace ground equipment (AGE). Documents and
maintains aerospace vehicle, engines, space systems, munitions/armaments, and AGE records.
Develops and coordinates generation flow plans for units required to meet emergency war order
and wartime tasking. Analyzes maintenance information and requirements, and develops visual
presentations.

4.2. Duties and Responsibilities. Refer to AFECD

4.2.1 Plans and schedules aerospace vehicle maintenance and utilization requirements.
Develops plans and establishes production schedules to meet mission requirements. Schedules
aerospace vehicles, space systems, AGE, munitions/armaments, and engines. Determines
maintenance capabilities and aid in developing operational schedules. Prepares daily, weekly,
monthly, quarterly, and annual utilization schedules for known maintenance and operational
mission and training requirements. Coordinates with base activities to ensure support is
available to meet schedules. Manages aerospace vehicles, engines, armament/munitions, space
systems, AGE, and selected equipment inventory data. Provides written guidance for accounting
of flying hour data. Monitors scheduling effectiveness. In conjunction with Maintenance Data
Systems Analysis (MDSA), ensures senior leaders are briefed on Health Of Fleet (HOF) issues
and impact on long term fleet health.

4.2.2 Schedules and monitors workload requirements. Ensures appropriate commanders are
advised of maintenance capabilities, limiting production factors, and adherence to maintenance
schedules. Uses automated system to schedule and monitor maintenance activities’ workload.
Administers work control by authorizing jobs, work priorities, and completion times.

4.2.3 Operates automated information systems and maintains equipment records to support
applicable weapon systems. Coordinates with MDSA to establish automated support
requirements.

4.2.4 Maintains and audits weapon systems records. Reviews, evaluates, and files documented
information for planning and scheduling maintenance actions. Maintains historical and flight
status records of weapons and support systems. Manages the aircraft configuration, Time
Compliance Technical Orders (TCTO), Special Inspections (SI), and time change items (TCI)

                                              6
and their related automated subsystems in the appropriate IMDS and GO81 maintenance
information systems (MIS). Ensures accurate documentation of aircraft configuration, TCTOs,
TCIs, and SIs.

5. Skill level/Career Progression.

5.1. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to the superintendent skill
level play an important role in the Air Force's ability to accomplish its mission. It is essential for
everyone involved in training to do their part to plan, manage, and conduct an effective training
program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will ensure each individual receives
necessary training at appropriate points in their career.

5.2. Apprentice (3) Level. Following Basic Military Training, initial skills training will be
provided in resident courses at the 82d Training Wing, Sheppard AFB TX. The courses will lay
the foundation for additional training at the graduate’s first duty assignment. Trainees will
utilize the CDC and task qualification training to progress in their career field. Upon completion
of CDC 2R151, Air Force core task qualifications, and commander’s recommendation the trainee
will be awarded their 5 skill level.

5.3. Journeyman (5) Level. Once upgraded to the 5-level, the journeyman will enter into
continuation training that will broaden their experience base by increasing their knowledge and
skill in troubleshooting and solving more complex problems. After having 48 months in the Air
Force or upon selection to Staff Sergeant, 5-levels will attend Airman Leadership School (ALS)
to enhance their Professional Military Education (PME). After attending the formal trainer’s
course, 5-levels can be considered for appointment as unit trainers. Trainers must be qualified
and certified in the appropriate task, before he/she can conduct training in those tasks. CDC
study is continued to prepare for Weighted Airman Promotion testing. Airmen should also
consider continuing their formal education by pursuing a Community College of the Air Force
(CCAF) degree.

5.4. Craftsman (7) Level. A craftsman can expect to fill various supervisory and management
positions. Once upgraded, 7-levels should take courses to obtain added knowledge on
management of resources and personnel. They should also become thoroughly familiar with all
facets of Maintenance Operations Flight (MOF) activities. Continued academic education
through CCAF and higher degree programs is encouraged. In addition, when promoted to
Technical Sergeant, individuals will attend the Noncommissioned Officer Academy, and are
eligible to enroll in the Senior Non-Commissioned Officers (SNCO) Course 14 . (See table
A8.2.) Note: Course 14 is mandatory for Master Sergeants to be eligible for Senior Rater EPR
endorsement.




                                                  7
5.5. Superintendent (9) Level. A 9-level can be expected to fill the position of a work center
Superintendent, Maintenance Operations Flight/Squadron Superintendent or MAJCOM
functional manager. Additional training in the areas of budget, manpower, resources, and
personnel management should be pursued through continuing education. Individuals promoted
to SMSgt will attend the Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy. They should be
knowledgeable and possess the ability to apply the AF Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures as
outlined in AFTTP 3-21.1. Additional higher education and completion of courses outside their
career AFSC are also recommended.

6. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the 2R1X1 Maintenance
Management Production career field. The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and
how to meet training requirements. The strategy must ensure we develop affordable training,
eliminating duplication and preventing a fragmented approach to training. The following
training decisions were made at the Career Field U&TW at Sheppard AFB from 14 January 2013
to 18 January 2013.

6.1. Initial Skills. The 3-level resident course provides training in Maintenance Management
Production. The U&TW working group members revised the 3-level course. The review
included an increased emphasis on safety of flight programs and added additional focus areas for
TCTO and time change management core areas. AVDO training was moved to the 7-level
course.

6.2. 5-Level Upgrade Requirements. To upgrade to the 5-level, personnel must meet
educational, training, and grade requirements as listed in table A8.1. Enlisted Career Path. The
U&TW made a number of upgrade training changes. They added subject knowledge objectives
for training management. 5-level core tasks were increased significantly.

6.3. 7-Level Upgrade Requirements. 7-skill level upgrade training in this specialty consists of
completing all 3- and 5-skill level training requirements. Upgrade training begins the first day of
the promotion cycle upon selection to staff sergeant and requires completion of all training as
indicated by task and knowledge training requirements identified in STS 2R1X1, which is
included in Part II, Section A, of this plan. The trainee is also required to complete the 7-skill
level CDC’s and Maintenance Management Production Craftsman course. Areas covered are:
Logistics and Resource Management, Supply Management, Maintenance Management, and
Training Management. Additionally, the trainee must meet all requirements prescribed in the
applicable MAJCOM training directives. During the U&TW, the group made minor changes to
the 7-level upgrade training objectives. The most notable change was the addition of AVDO,
first look and engine management.

6.4. Continuation Training. Any additional knowledge and skill requirements not taught
through initial or upgrade training are assigned to unit training or training detachments. The
purpose of the continuation training program is to provide additional training in excess of
minimum upgrade training requirements with emphasis on present and future duty positions.
MAJCOMs develop a proficiency training program that ensures individuals in the 2R1X1
Maintenance Management Production career field receive necessary training at the appropriate
point in their career. The program identifies both mandatory and optional training requirements.


                                                8
7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). CCAF offers and awards job-related
associate in applied science degrees and other academic credentials that enhance mission
readiness, contribute to recruiting, assist in retention and support the career transitions of Air
Force enlisted members. The college works with Air Force training centers, regional accrediting
agencies, and hundreds of cooperating civilian colleges and universities. The technical nature of
most Air Force courses, placed at the same level with college studies, can award Airmen full
college credits for most of what they learn through formal coursework and on-the-job training.
Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon completion of basic military training. CCAF provides the
opportunity to obtain an Associate in Applied Science Degree. In addition to its associate degree
program, CCAF offers the following:

7.1. Occupational Instructor Certification. Upon completion of instructor qualification
training, consisting of the Basic Instructor Course (BIC) and supervised practice teaching, CCAF
instructors who possess an associate degree or higher may be nominated by their school
commander/commandant for certification as an occupational instructor.

7.2. Association for Operations Management. This AFSC qualifies for enrollment in the
Advanced Planning Inventory Control Society (APICS) program. Information on this program
may be found at: http://www.apics.org/Certification.

7.3. Degree Requirements. All Airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program.
Prior to completing an associate degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the following
requirements must be met:
                                                                                                                       Semester Hours
Technical Education..................................................................................................................24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies....................................................................…..6
Physical Education......................................................................................................................4
General Education......................................................................................................................15
Program Electives......................................................................................................................15
         Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and Military
         Studies; or General Education
Total....................................................................…...................................................................64

7.3.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): Completion of the 2R1X1 training courses
satisfies some semester hours of the technical education requirements. A minimum of 12
semester hours of Technical Core subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining semester
hours applied from Technical Core/Technical Elective courses.

           Course                                                                                               Semester Hours

     J3AZR2R1XX 0E1A ...........................................................................................3
NOTE: These are the approximate hours listed for courses. These hours will change because of revisions
being made to courses. CCAF must be contacted to get the correct number of hours for all courses.

7.3.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Professional
military education and/or civilian management courses.



                                                                        9
7.3.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of
Basic Military Training.

7.3.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement with
the definitions of applicable General Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF
General Catalog.

7.3.5. Program Electives (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects/courses, including
natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Six semester hours of CCAF degree
applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied. See the
CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associate of Applied Science for this specialty.

7.4. AETC Instructor Requirements: Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that
is encouraged for all. Individuals desiring to become an AETC instructor should be actively
pursuing an associate degree. A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through
the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.




                                              10
8. Career Field Path.

8.1. Enlisted Career Path. Table A8.1 identifies career milestones for the 2R1X1 Air Force
Specialty.

                          2R1X1 Maintenance Management Production
                Apprentice Journeyman        Craftsman          Superintendent                                              CEM
                AB, Amn,
    Rank          A1C          SrA        SSgt       TSgt      MSgt      SMSgt                                             CMSgt
   Upgrade      3-level           5-level            7-level                                               9-level
                - Awarded upon    - Complete Core    - Min rank of SSgt
   Training     graduation from   Tasks              - 12 months UGT (Retrainee - 6
                Initial Skills                       mos)
                Course             - 12 months UGT   - Complete CDC
                                  (Retrainee - 9     - Complete Core Tasks
                                  mos)               - Complete Craftsman Course


 Professional   - FTAC            - PME              - PME              - PME             - PME            - PME
                - Complete CDC    - ALS              - NCOPE            - NCOPE           - SNCO           -
 Development                      - Train the        - CCAF             - SEJPME          Induction        Professional
   (Note 1)                       Trainer            - Instructor       - CMSAF           Course           Manager
                                  - CMSAF            Certification      Reading list       - MOF Supt      Certification
                                  Reading List       - CMSAF            - Enlisted-to-    Course           - CMSAF
                                  - Hill AFB         Reading list       AFIT              - SNCOPE         Reading list
                                  Engine             - Enlisted-to-     - Course 14       - CMSAF
                                  Management         AFIT                                 Reading List
                                  Course                                                  - Enlisted-to-
                                  - Hill AFB AMU                                          AFIT
                                  Scheduling                                              - SNCOA
                                  Course

    Career      - Dedicated       - Dedicated AMU    - Lead AMU         - Lead AMU        - Supt, Wing     - MOF Supt      - MOF Supt
                AMU Scheduler     Scheduler          Scheduler          Scheduler         PS&D             - MAJCOM        - MFM
    Ladder      - PS&D            - TCTO Monitor     - NCOIC,           - NCOIC, Wing     - NCOIC,         - AVDO
   (Note 2)     Documentation     - PS&D             PS&D               Scheduling        Engine
                - Engine          Documentation      Documentation      - NCOIC,          Management
                Management        - Engine           - AVDO             Documentation     Section
                Documentation     Management         - Wing Time        - AVDO            - Base Engine
                                  Documentation      Change Monitor     - Wing TCTO       Manager
                                                     - Wing TCTO        Manager           - ACC
                                                     Monitor            - Engine          Schoolhouse
                                                     - Engine           Management        Instructor
                                                     Management         Documentation     - CDC Writer
                                                     Documentation      - Tech Training
                                                     - Tech Training    Instructor
                                                     Instructor



Notes:
1. This should be used as a guide for Professional Development to expand knowledge and increase
functional skills.
2. This should be used as a guide for Career Progression; this is not a complete list, but a guide to
provide supervisors and members an idea to what positions they should be striving for to gain
experience as they progress through the grade and skill level.




                                                        11
8.2. Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist

Table A8.2. Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist
Requirements for Upgrade to:                                                                  Y N
Journeyman
- Has the apprentice completed mandatory CDCs if available? NOTE: Upgrade trainees will
  not be required to retake their respective shred 5-level CDC again to fulfill requirements.
- Has the apprentice completed all 5-level core tasks identified in the CFETP?
- Has the apprentice completed 12 months UGT (9 months for retrainees) for award of the 5-
  skill level?
- Has the apprentice met mandatory requirements listed in specialty description, ECD and
  CFETP?
- Has the apprentice been recommended by their supervisor?
 Craftsman
- Has the journeyman achieved the rank of SSgt?
- Has the journeyman completed mandatory CDCs?
- Has the journeyman completed all core tasks identified in the CFETP?
- Has the journeyman completed a minimum 12 months (6 months for retrainee) UGT for
award of the 7-skill level?

TO: Squadron/CC
FROM: Squadron Training Manager
SUBJECT: Upgrade Trainee

Trainee is prepared to be upgraded and has completed all training requirements.


_____________________________________               ___________________________________
Training Manager                                          Supervisor




                                               12
Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements

9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in the 2R1X1 career field are defined in terms of
tasks and knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements
for each skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry,
award and retention of each skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements
are identified in the STS in Part II, Sections C and E of this CFETP.

10. Specialty Qualification:

10.1. Apprentice (3) Level Training:

10.1.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is located in the official specialty description
in the AFECD.

10.1.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: operations and logistics management of
aerospace vehicles, engines, space systems, and associated equipment; automated and manual
procedures applying to planning, scheduling, and documenting maintenance management
information systems and small computer use; concepts and application of maintenance
directives; aerospace vehicle configuration, operational, SI and TCI management; delayed
discrepancy; TCTO; and engine subsystems.

10.1.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school with courses in
computers and basic algebra is desirable.

10.1.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2R131, completion of the basic Maintenance
Management Production course is mandatory.

10.1.1.4. Experience. None.

10.1.1.5. Other. Specialty requires routine access to Secret material or similar environment.
For award and retention of AFSC 2R131/51/71, completion of a current National Agency Check,
Local Agency Checks and Credit (NACLC) according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security
Program Management.

10.1.2. Training Sources and Resources. The 3-level initial skills course will provide the
required qualifications and applicable certification. Initial skills training encompasses technical
training publications, aerospace vehicle equipment and engine scheduling, aerospace vehicle
inventory changes, time change, special inspection and TCTO programs, maintenance
management, and engine management.

10.1.3. Implementation. Upon graduation from Basic Military Training (BMT), completion of
course J3ABR2R131 0S3B, Maintenance Management Production Apprentice, satisfies the
knowledge and training resource requirements for award of the 3-skill level for Maintenance
Management Production trainees.

10.2. Journeyman (5) Level Training:


                                                13
10.2.1 Specialty Qualification. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2R131.

10.2.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to the 3-level qualifications, a 5-skill level must possess the
knowledge and skills necessary to maintain inspections, time changes, TCTO’s, configuration
management, and aerospace utilization.

10.2.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for
the apprentice level. However, completion of a CCAF degree is desirable.

10.2.1.3. Training. Completion of mandatory CDCs and all 5-level core tasks are mandatory
for upgrade to 2R151.

10.2.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2R131. Also, experience in
production management activities.

10.2.1.5. Other. None

10.2.2. Training Sources and Resources. A minimum of 12 months OJT (9 months for
retrainees), completion of the 2R151 CDC and 5-level core tasks represent the resources needed
for award of the 5-skill level.

10.2.3. Implementation. Training to the 5-level is performed by the units, utilizing the STS,
exportable courses, and CDCs. Upgrade to the 5-level requires completion of the 2R151 CDC,
completion of all5-level core tasks, and 12 months OJT (9 months for retrainees).

10.3. Craftsman (7) Level Training:

10.3.1 Specialty Qualification. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2R151.

10.3.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to the 5-level qualifications, an individual must possess
advanced skills and knowledge of theory, concepts, principles and applications of maintenance
management production.

10.3.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for
the apprentice level. However, completion of a CCAF degree is desirable.

10.3.1.3. Training.      Completion of mandatory CDCs, the Maintenance Management
Production Craftsman course, all 7-level core tasks are mandatory for upgrade to 2R171.

10.3.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2R151. Also, experience
performing or supervising maintenance scheduling and documentation functions and activities.

10.3.1.5. Other. None.
10.3.2. Training Sources and Resources. A minimum of 12 months OJT (6 months for
retrainees), completion of the 2R171 CDC, Maintenance Management Production Craftsman
course, and 7-level core tasks represent the resources needed for award of the 7-skill level, and
should be knowledgeable of AFTTP 3-21.1.


                                               14
10.3.3. Implementation. Training to the 7-level is performed by the units, utilizing the STS,
exportable courses, and CDCs. Upgrade to the 7-level requires completion of the 2R171 CDC,
completion of all 7 level core tasks, Maintenance Management Production Craftsman course, and
12 months OJT (6 months for retrainees).

10.4. Superintendent (9) Level Training:

10.4.1 Specialty Qualification. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2R171/2R071. Also,
experience managing maintenance scheduling or analysis activities.

10.4.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to 7-level qualifications an individual must possess advanced
skills and knowledge of maintenance concepts, directives, organizational structure and principles
of maintenance management production. Maintenance operations flight chief responsibilities
includes; knowledge of: Plans, Scheduling, and Documentation, Maintenance Data Systems
Analysis duties, Maintenance Operations Center policies and procedures, maintenance training
programs, engine management, Maintenance Supply Liaison (MSL), Air Force supply
procedures, resource management, and should be knowledgeable of AFTTP 3-21.1.

10.4.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for
the apprentice level. However, completion of a CCAF degree is desirable.

10.4.1.3. Training. None.

10.4.1.4. Experience. For award of AFSC 2R090, qualification in and possession of AFSC
2R171 or 2R071 is mandatory.

10.4.2. Training Sources/Resources.           Duty position qualifications represent the required
resources for upgrade to the 9-skill level.

10.4.3. Implementation. The 9-skill level will be awarded upon promotion to SMSgt.

Section D - Resource Constraints

11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints that preclude optimal/desired
training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower.
Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what
effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section are actions
required, office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. As a minimum, resource
constraints will be reviewed and updated annually.

12. No resource constraints identified.

PART II

Section A - Course Objective List

1. Measurement. Each proficiency coded STS task or knowledge item taught at the technical
school is measured through the use of an objective. An objective is a written instruction for the

                                                 15
student so he or she knows what is expected of them to successfully complete training on each
task. Each objective consists of a condition, behavior, and standard. The condition is the setting
in which the training takes place (i.e. TOs, type of equipment, etc.). The behavior is the
observable portion of the objective (i.e. perform an operational check). The standard is the level
of performance that is measured to ensure the STS proficiency code level is attained. Each
objective uses letter codes(s) to identify how it is measured. All objectives use the PC code that
indicates a progress check is used to measure subject or task knowledge. “W” indicates a
comprehensive written test and is used to measure the subject or task knowledge at the end of a
block of instruction. “PC/W” indicates a subject or task knowledge progress check and a
separate measurement of both knowledge and performance elements using a written test.

2. Standard. The standard for written examinations is 70%. Standards for performance
objectives are indicated in the objective and are also indicated on the individual progress check
checklist. The checklist is used by the instructor to document each student’s progress on each
task. Instructor assistance is provided as needed during the progress check, and students may be
required to repeat all or part of the behavior until satisfactory performance is attained. Students
must satisfactorily complete all PCs prior to taking the written test.

3. Proficiency Level. Review column 4A of the STS to determine the proficiency level of a
particular task or knowledge item. Review the course objective list to determine which STS item
the objective supports. Review the proficiency code key in Part II, Section E of this CFETP for
an explanation of the proficiency codes. Most task performance is taught to the “2b” proficiency
level which means the students can do most parts of the task, but does need assistance on the
hardest parts of the task (partially proficient). The student can also determine step by step
procedures for doing the task.

4. Course Objectives. A detailed listing of initial skills or craftsman course objectives may be
obtained by submitting a written request to 363 TRS/TRR, 520 Missle Road, Sheppard AFB TX
76311-2261 or contacting the OPR by telephone at DSN 736-8777.

Section B - Support Materials

5. Support materials for the 2R1X1 career field are available at the following web sites:

5.1. Interactive Courseware information is available at: 367 TRS, 6058 Aspen Bldg. 1295, Hill
AFB, Utah 84056-5805. https://367trss.hill.af.mil/catalog/course%20search.aspx.

5.2. Headquarter Air Force Reserve Command Analysis information is available at:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=00-LG-MM-A1

5.3. The AF Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (AFTTP) publications are available at
https://wwwmil.nellis.af.mil/units/561jts/dn/volumes.aspx

Section C - Training Course Index:

6. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the specialty and
shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field training programs. For
further information on the following courses, contact the OPR at:

                                                16
       363 TRS/TRR
       520 Missile Road
       Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2261
       DSN 736-8777.

7. Air Force In-Resident Courses.

 COURSE NO.              COURSE TITLE                             LOCATION           USER
 J3ABR2R131 0S3A         Maintenance Management Production        Sheppard AFB, TX   USAF
                         Apprentice
 J3ACR2R171 0S7A         Maintenance Management Production        Sheppard AFB, TX   USAF
                         Craftsman
 J3AZR2R1XX 0E1A         Engine Management                        Sheppard AFB, TX   USAF

8. Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning (AFIADL) Courses.

For further information on the following courses, contact the OPR at:
        363 TRS/TRR
        520 Missile Road
        Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2352
        DSN 736-8777



 COURSE NO.           COURSE TITLE                                        User
 CDC 2R151            Maintenance Management Production Journeyman        USAF

 CDC 2R171            Maintenance Management Production Craftsman         USAF




                                               17
9. Exportable Courses.

For further information on the following exportable courses, contact the OPRs at:

367 TRSS/Catalog
6058 Aspen Ave
Bldg 1295
Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805
DSN 777-5868

 COURSE NO.              COURSE TITLE                                       OPR     User
 A2ADU00OCB4041          G081 Analysis                                      367 TRS USAF
 A6MDU00TCB0082          G081 Maintenance Data Collection                   367 TRS USAF
 C6ANU00TVT7506          Combat Sortie Generation                           367 TRS USAF
 C2MDU00TCB7567          Aerospace Vehicle Distribution Officer (AVDO)      367 TRS USAF
                         Reference
 J6ANU00066 046          IMDS for Flight Line                               362 TRS USAF
 J6ANU00066 047          IMDS for Backshop                                  362 TRS USAF
 J6ANU00066 048          IMDS for Supervisors                               362 TRS USAF

10. Other Supplemental Courses.

The following courses are available.

 COURSE NO.           COURSE TITLE                               OPR                User
 Y140019              Engine Management (EM)                     ACC/ Hill AFB      USAF
 Y140018               Plans, Scheduling, and Documentation      ACC/ Hill AFB      USAF
                      (PS&D)

11. Training Detachment (TD) Courses.

There are no TD courses for the 2R1X1 career field.

12. REMIS Courses

The REMIS CBT courses are provided by 754 ELSG/ILX and available at the following URL:
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/browse.do?categoryId=p6925EC16AF830FB5E044080020E329A9&channelPageId
=s6925EC1357EF0FB5E044080020E329A9




                                                18
Section D - MAJCOM Unique Requirements

13. For MAJCOM unique requirements, refer to the MAJCOM mandatory course lists.

Section E - Specialty Training Standard

14. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC for
classes beginning with course J3ACR2R131 0S7B, 04 Oct 2013 and J3ABR2R131 0S3B, 10 Jan
2014. Course J3AZR2R1XX 0E1B has a separate Course Training Standard (CTS) and is not
governed by this STS.

15. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:

15.1. Lists in column 1 the most common tasks, knowledge, and Technical References (TR)
necessary for Airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level.

15.2. Identifies in column 2 (Core Tasks) by asterisk (*), specialty-wide training requirements.
Core tasks identified with an */R are not required for the AFRC and the ANG. As a minimum,
all AFCFM-directed core tasks applicable to this specialty must be completed and signed off for
skill level upgrade. There is no longer an Air Force requirement for third-party certification of
core tasks in this AFSC. However, MAJCOMs, commanders, and work center supervisors still
retain the option to designate critical tasks (core or non-core) as requiring third-party
certification. To designate a task as requiring third-party certification, circle the appropriate
asterisk in the core task column on the specialty training standard (STS) portion of the CFETP in
the master task list (MTL) and individual training records. If the task is not already designated
as a core task, place just the circle at the appropriate location in the core task column. Core tasks,
which are not applicable to base assigned aircraft or equipment, are not required for upgrade
(units are not required to send personnel TDY for core task training).

15.3. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and
knowledge training requirements. Use automated training management systems to document
technician qualifications, if available. Task certification must show a certification/completed
date.

15.4. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the
proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the
task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course.

15.5. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to
indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career
development courses.

15.6. Job Qualification Standard. Becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job
training when placed in AF Form 623, On-The-Job Training Record, and used according to
AFI 36-2201. For OJT, the tasks in column 1 are trained and qualified to the go/no go level.
"Go" means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets local requirements
for accuracy, timeliness, and correct procedures. When used as a JQS, the following
requirements apply:

                                                 19
15.6.1. Documentation. Document and certify completion of training in accordance with AFI
36-2201. TBA must be used when available.

15.6.1.1. Converting from Old Document to CFETP. All AFJQSs and previous CFETPs are
replaced by this CFETP; therefore, conversion of all training records to this CFETP STS is
mandatory. Use this CFETP STS (or automated STS) to identify and certify all past and current
qualifications. Document and certify all previous and current training IAW AFI 36-2201.

15.7. STS. This STS is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman
Promotion System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the USAF
Occupational Measurement Squadron, by Senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in
their career fields. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test
development team members as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are
based upon study references listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are in AFI
36-2502, Airman Promotion/Demotion Programs. WAPS is not applicable to the Air National
Guard or Air Force Reserve.

16. Recommendations. Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates to
the AETC training manager at 363 TRS/TRR, 520 Missile Road, Sheppard AFB TX, 76311-
2261, DSN 736-8777, or e-mail to: donnie.manos@us.af.mil. Reference specific STS
paragraphs. For a quick response to problems, call our customer service information line, DSN
736-8777.




BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE



OFFICIAL
                                         JUDITH A. FEDDER
                                         Lieutenant General, USAF
                                         DCS/Installations, Logistics, and Mission Support




2 Attachments
1. Proficiency Code Key
2. STS 2R1X1


                                             20
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK




                21
                                                   STS Proficiency Code Key
                                                 CFETP 2R1X1, XX Month 2013
This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                       Initials (Written)              SSAN Last Four


                               Printed Name of Certifying Official and Written Initials
N/I                                                                     N/I


N/I                                                                     N/I


N/I                                                                     N/I


N/I                                                                     N/I


N/I                                                                     N/I


N/I                                                                     N/I


N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I


QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                             Proficiency Code Key
                                     Scale    Definition: The individual
                                     Value
                                       1      Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (Extremely
                                              Limited)
          Task                         2      Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)

      Performance                      3      Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)

         Levels                        4      Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task.
                                              (Highly Proficient)
                                       a      Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)

        *Task                          b      Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)

      Knowledge                        c      Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                                              (Operating Principles)
         Levels                        d      Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)

                                       A      Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)

      **Subject                        B      Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (Principles)

      Knowledge                        C      Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)

       Levels                          D      Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

X This mark is used alone in the course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.

 NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during wartime.




                                                                              21                                             Attachment 1
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK




                  23                 Attachment 1
                            QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                   MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT PRODUCTION SPECIALTY
                                                                                                                                                              STS 2R1X1
                                                    2.               3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References             Core          A           B         C          D           E          A       B            C
                                                         Tasks                                                               3 Skill      5       7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                             Level      Skill
                                                                                                                                        Level
                                                                      Tng         Tng      Traine     Trainer    Certifier    (1)        (2)     (1)        (2)
                                                                      Start     Complete      e       Initials   Initials    Course     CDC     Course     CDC
                                                     5           7                         Initials

NOTE 1: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references, pending STS revision.

NOTE 2: All items marked with a code in column 4a(1) are trained in resident wartime courses.

NOTE 3: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) are core tasks required for upgrade to the 5 or 7-skill level. Seven levels must complete
         both 5 and 7-level core tasks. Items marked with an (*/R) are not required by AFRC and ANG for upgrade.


A2.1.              Maintenance
                   Management
                   Production Career Field
                                                                                                                              A          -        -          -
                   Progression
                   TR: AFMAN 36-2101,
                   AFVA 36-212, AFECD
A2.2.              Training
                   TR: AFI 36-2201,
                   36-2101, 36-2232,
                   AFECD, CFETP
                   2R1X1
A2.2.1.            Structure within Career
                                                                                                                              A          -        -          -
                   Field
A2.2.2.            Duty overview of a
                                                                                                                              A          -        -          -
                   2R131/51/71
A2.2.3.            Progression in 2R1
                   Career                                                                                                     A          -        -         B
                   Field
A2.3.              Supervision
                   TR: AFI 21-101, AFI
                   36-2406, AFI 36-2618,
                   AFPAM 36-2627
A2.3.1.            Orient new personnel
                                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A2.3.2.            Review mission
                   statements                                                                                                  -         -        -          -

A2.3.3.            Personnel rotation plan
                                                                                                                               -         -        -         B
A2.3.4.            Administer/manage
                                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
                   CDC progression
A2.3.5.            Administer/manage
                                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
                   OJT progression
A2.3.6.            Schedule work
                                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
                   assignments
A2.3.7.            Prioritize work
                                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
                   requirements
A2.3.8.            Establish performance
                                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
                   standards
A2.3.9.            Supervise work
                                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
                   activities of personnel
A2.3.10.           Evaluate individual duty
                                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
                   performance



                                                                           23                                                          Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                                       STS 2R1X1
                                                2.               3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                       Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References         Core          A         B         C          D           E          A       B            C
                                                     Tasks                                                             3 Skill     5       7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                       Level     Skill
                                                                                                                                 Level
                                                                  Tng       Tng      Traine     Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)     (1)        (2)
                                                                  Start   Complete      e       Initials   Initials    Course    CDC     Course     CDC
                                                 5           7                       Initials
A2.3.11.          Conduct feedback
                                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A2.3.12.          Complete rating forms
                                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A2.3.13.          Prepare/submit skill
                                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
                  level upgrade for trainee
A2.3.14.          Trainer Role:

A2.3.14.1.        Identify training
                                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
                  requirements
A2.3.14.2.        Develop training plans
                                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A2.3.14.3.        Develop evaluation
                                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
                  tools
A2.3.14.4.        Advise trainees on
                                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
                  training programs
A2.3.14.5.        Advise trainee on
                                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
                  progress
A2.3.14.6.        Maintain training
                                                         *                                                                        A                  B
                  records/progression
A2.3.14.7.        Monitor effectiveness of
                  upgrade/qualification                                                                                  -        -        -          -
                  training
A2.3.14.8.        Evaluate
                                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
                  skills/qualifications
A2.3.14.9.        Initiate task certification
                                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
                  action
A2.4.             Manpower and
                  Personnel
                  TR: AFI 38-201, 38-
                  204, AFMS 21B1,
                  AFMS 21E1, AFTTP 3-
                  21.1
A2.4.1.           Manpower standards
                                                                                                                         -        -        -         B
A2.4.2.           Unit Manning
                                                                                                                         -        -        -         B
                  Document (UMD)
A2.4.3.           Unit Personnel
                  Management Roster                                                                                      -        -        -         B
                  (UPMR)
A2.4.4.           UTC Roles and
                  Responsibilities                                                                                       -        B        -          -
                  TR: AFTTP 3-21.1
A2.5.             Wing Structure

A2.5.1.           Wing Leadership
                                                                                                                        A         -        -          -
A2.5.2.           Groups in a standard
                                                                                                                        A         -        -          -
                  Wing




                                                                  25                                                               Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                                      STS 2R1X1
                                               2.               3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                      Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        Core          A         B         C          D           E          A       B            C
                                                    Tasks                                                             3 Skill     5       7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                      Level     Skill
                                                                                                                                Level
                                                                 Tng       Tng      Traine     Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)     (1)        (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete      e       Initials   Initials    Course    CDC     Course     CDC
                                                5           7                       Initials
A2.6.             Functions within the
                  MXG and how each
                  interface with PS&D.
                  TR: AFI21-101, 103,
                  116, AFPD 21-1,
                  AFCSM 21-series,
                  MAJCOM and Lead
                  Command directives,
                  T.O. 00-20 series,
                  Commercial Texts
A2.6.1.           Responsibilities of
                                                                                                                       A         B        -          -
                  group leadership
A2.6.2.           Quality Assurance (QA)

A2.6.2.1.         Responsibilities of the
                  Technical Order
                                                                                                                       A         B        -          -
                  Distribution Office
                  (TODO)
A2.6.2.2.         Concept of the Product
                  Improvement
                                                                                                                        -        B        -          -
                  Management Section
                  (PIMS)
A2.6.2.3.         One-Time Inspection
                                                                                                                       A         B        -          -
                  (OTI) program
A2.6.2.4.         Criteria for the
                                                                                                                        -        B        -          -
                  FCF/OCF program
A2.6.2.5.         Weight and Balance
                  (W&B) program TR:
                                                                                                                        -        B        -          -
                  T.O. 1-1B-50 and
                  applicable acft -6 T.O.
A2.6.2.6.         Impoundment program
                                                                                                                        -        B        -          -
A2.6.2.7.         Maintenance Assistance
                  process TR: T.O. 00-25-                                                                              A         B        -          -
                  107

A2.6.3.           Aircraft Maintenance                                                                                 A         B        -          -
                  Squadron (AMXS)

A2.6.4.           Aircraft Maintenance
                  Unit (AMU)
A2.6.4.1.         AMU Officer in Charge
                                                                                                                       A         B        -          -
A2.6.4.2.         Production
                                                                                                                       A         B        -          -
                  Superintendent
A2.6.4.3.         Expediters
                                                                                                                       A         B        -          -
A2.6.4.4.         Crew chiefs
                                                                                                                       A         B        -          -
A2.6.4.5.         Specialists (avionics,
                                                                                                                       A         B        -          -
                  engines, etc.)



                                                                 26                                                               Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                                      STS 2R1X1
                                               2.               3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                      Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        Core          A         B         C          D           E          A       B            C
                                                    Tasks                                                             3 Skill     5       7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                      Level     Skill
                                                                                                                                Level
                                                                 Tng       Tng      Traine     Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)     (1)        (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete      e       Initials   Initials    Course    CDC     Course     CDC
                                                5           7                       Initials
A2.6.4.6.         Weapons section
                                                                                                                       A         B        -          -
A2.6.4.7.         Supply/Support Section
                                                                                                                       A         B        -          -
A2.6.5.           Functions of the
                  Maintenance Squadron
                  (MXS) (Represents
                  EMS, CMS, and
                  MUNS)
A2.6.5.1.         Accessories Flight
                                                                                                                       A         B        -          -
A2.6.5.2.         Aerospace Ground
                  Equipment (AGE)                                                                                      A         B        -          -
                  Flight
A2.6.5.3.         Armament Flight
                                                                                                                       A         B        -          -
A2.6.5.4.         Avionics Flight
                                                                                                                       A         B        -          -
A2.6.5.5.         Fabrication Flight
                                                                                                                       A         B        -          -
A26.5.6.          Maintenance Flight
                                                                                                                       A         B        -          -
A2.6.5.7.         Munitions Flight
                                                                                                                       A         B        -          -
A2.6.5.8.         Propulsion Flight
                                                                                                                       A         B        -          -
A2.7.             Functions of
                  Maintenance Operations
                  TR: AFI 11-101, 16-
                  402, 21-101, 103, 201,
                  204, TO 00-5 series, 00-
                  20 series, 00-25 series,
                  AFMAN 23-110 series,
                  AFTTP 3-21.1, Air
                  Force Data Dictionary
                  (AFDD)
A2.7.1.           Maintenance Operations
                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
                  Flight (MOF)
A2.7.2.           Superintendent/Flight
                                                                                                                        -        -       B          B
                  Chief
A2.7.3.           Plans, Scheduling and
                                                                                                                       A         B        -          -
                  Documentation
A2.7.4.           Maintenance
                                                                                                                       A         A       B          B
                  Management Analysis
A2.7.5.           Maintenance Operations
                                                                                                                       A         A       B          B
                  Center (MOC)
A2.7.6.           Engine Management
                                                                                                                       A         B        -          -
A2.7.7.           Maintenance Supply
                                                                                                                       A         B        -          -




                                                                 27                                                               Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                                      STS 2R1X1
                                               2.               3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                      Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        Core          A         B         C          D           E          A       B            C
                                                    Tasks                                                             3 Skill     5       7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                      Level     Skill
                                                                                                                                Level
                                                                 Tng       Tng      Traine     Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)     (1)        (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete      e       Initials   Initials    Course    CDC     Course     CDC
                                                5           7                       Initials
A2.8.             Publications TR: TO
                  00-5-1 series, AFI 21-
                  101, AFI 33-360,
                  AFMAN 33-363
A2.8.1.           Technical Order System
                                                *                                                                      A         B        -          -
A2.8.2.           Air Force Publication
                  system (AFI, AFMAN,           *                                                                      A         B        -          -
                  etc)
A2.8.3.           Use common Technical
                  Orders, AF Pubs and
                  Manufacturer Manuals:
A2.8.3.1.         00- Technical Order
                                                *                                                                      2b        B        -          -
                  series
A2.8.3.2.         Aircraft -6 or equivalent
                                                *                                                                      2b        B        -          -
A2.8.3.3.         Aircraft -06
                                                *                                                                      2b        B
A2.8.3.4.         11A/11P- Technical
                                                                                                                       2b        B        -          -
                  Order series
A2.8.3.5.         13/14 Technical Order
                                                                                                                       2b        B        -          -
                  series
A2.8.3.6.         AFI 21-101
                                                *                                                                      2b        B        -          -
A2.8.3.7.         AFI 21-103
                                                        *                                                               -        -       2b          -
A2.9.             Use Air Force Portal

A2.9.1.           Maintenance
                  Information System            *                                                                      2b        A        -          -
                  Manuals
A2.9.2.           www.e-
                                                                                                                        -        A        -          -
                  publishing.af.mil
A2.9.3.           Enhanced Technical
                  Information
                                                                                                                        -        A        -          -
                  Management System
                  (ETIMS)
A2.10.            Use office applications
                  software
A2.10.1.          Microsoft Excel
                                                                                                                       2b        -        -          -
A2.10.2.          Microsoft Word
                                                                                                                       2b        -        -          -
A2.10.3.          Microsoft PowerPoint
                                                                                                                       2b        -        -          -
A2.10.4.          Microsoft Access
                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A2.11.            Commonly employed
                  Maintenance
                  Information
                  Systems/Tools



                                                                 28                                                               Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                                      STS 2R1X1
                                               2.               3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                      Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        Core          A         B         C          D           E          A       B            C
                                                    Tasks                                                             3 Skill     5       7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                      Level     Skill
                                                                                                                                Level
                                                                 Tng       Tng      Traine     Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)     (1)        (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete      e       Initials   Initials    Course    CDC     Course     CDC
                                                5           7                       Initials
A2.11.1.          Use Integrated
                  Maintenance Data                                                                                     2b        B        -          -
                  System (IMDS)
A2.11.2.          Use G081
                                                                                                                       1b        B        -          -
A2.11.3.          Integrated Maintenance
                  Information System                                                                                   A         B        -          -
                  (IMIS)
A2.11.4.          F-35 Autonomic
                  Logistics Information                                                                                A         A        -          -
                  System (ALIS)
A2.11.5.          Use Reliability and
                  Maintainability
                                                                                                                        -        A       2b         B
                  Information System
                  (REMIS)
A2.11.6.          Use Maintenance
                  Scheduling Application                                                                               2b        B        -          -
                  Tool (MSAT)
A2.11.7.          Global-Reach (MAF
                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
                  units)
A2.11.8.          GDSS II ( MAF units)
                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A2.12.            Documentation
                   TR: AFI 21-101, 103,
                  116, 201, 204, AFMAN
                  37-123, 23110,
                  Command 21-165
                  AFCSM 21-series, TO
                  00-5-1, 00-5-15, 00-20
                  series, 00-25 series,
                  applicable -6 and -06,
                  11P, 13 and 14 series
                  TOs

A2.12.1.          Purpose of Maintenance
                                                                                                                       A         B        -          -
                  Data Documentation
A2.12.2.          Aircraft Document
                  Review (ADR) Validate         *                                                                      2b        B        -          -
                  and Correct:
A2.12.3.          IMDS subsystem
                                                                                                                        -        B        -          -
                  management
A2.12.4.          G081 subsystem
                                                                                                                        -        B        -          -
                  management
A2.13.            Aircraft Configuration
                  Management
A2.13.1.          Identify and load
                  approved configurations       *                                                                       b        B       2b          -
                  items in MIS




                                                                 29                                                               Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                                      STS 2R1X1
                                               2.               3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                      Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        Core          A         B         C          D           E          A       B            C
                                                    Tasks                                                             3 Skill     5       7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                      Level     Skill
                                                                                                                                Level
                                                                 Tng       Tng      Traine     Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)     (1)        (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete      e       Initials   Initials    Course    CDC     Course     CDC
                                                5           7                       Initials
A2.13.2.          Validate part number,
                  quantity per assembly
                  and next higher
                                                *                                                                       b        B       2b          -
                  assembly by Work Unit
                  Code/Line Control
                  Number
A2.13.3.          Conduct GCSAS error
                                                *                                                                       a        B        b          -
                  daily resolution
A2.14.            Manage Major
                  Maintenance Work
                  Processing
A2.14.1.          Coordinate on 00-25-
                  107 request process
                                                        *                                                               -        A        -         B
                  (such as:
                  AR/ETAR/REDI)
A2.14.2.          Coordinate Depot field
                  team (DFT), Contract
                  field team (CFT),
                                                        *                                                               -        A        -         B
                  Recovery and
                  Modification Services
                  (RAMS)
A2.14.3.          Conduct initial meeting
                                                        *                                                               -        -        -          -
                  with DFT/CFT
A2.15.            TCTO management

A2.15.1.          Types of TCTOs
                                                *                                                                      A         B                   -
A2.15.2.          Manage aircraft TCTOs
                                                *                                                                       b        B       2b          -
A2.15.3.          Manage commodity
                                                *                                                                       b        B       2b          -
                  TCTOs
A2.15.4.          Manage One-Time
                                                *                                                                       b        B       2b          -
                  Inspection (OTI)
A2.15.5.          Create TCTO folder
                                                                                                                        a        -        -          -
A2.15.6.          Maintain TCTO folder
                                                *                                                                       b        B        -          -
A2.15.7.          Calculate TCTO
                  ground, rescission, and       *                                                                       b        B       3c          -
                  expiration dates
A2.15.8.          Load TCTO against
                  specified equipment in        *                                                                      2b        B        c          -
                  MIS
A2.15.9.          Prepare and Conduct
                  TCTO Preplanning              *                                                                       b        B        c          -
                  meeting
A2.15.10.         Forecast TCTO
                                                *                                                                       b        B       2b          -
                  completion
A2.15.11.         Schedule TCTO using
                                                *                                                                      2b        B        -          -
                  MIS




                                                                 30                                                               Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                                      STS 2R1X1
                                               2.               3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                      Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        Core          A         B         C          D           E          A       B            C
                                                    Tasks                                                             3 Skill     5       7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                      Level     Skill
                                                                                                                                Level
                                                                 Tng       Tng      Traine     Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)     (1)        (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete      e       Initials   Initials    Course    CDC     Course     CDC
                                                5           7                       Initials
A2.15.12.         Review TCTO status
                                                        *                                                               a        B       3c          -
                  and summary reports
A2.15.13.         Update status codes in
                                                *                                                                       b        B       3c          -
                  MIS
A2.15.14.         Report status to
                                                                                                                        -        A        -         B
                  MXG/CC and SQ/CCs
A2.15.15.         Initiate/submit
                  compliance waiver or                  *                                                               -        A        b         B
                  extension
A2.15.16.         Validate final TCTO
                                                        *                                                               -        A        a         B
                  disposition
A2.15.17.         Identify/verify TCTO
                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
                  information in REMIS
A2.15.18.         Master Change Log
                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
                  (MCL)
A2.16.            Order and management
                  of TCTO (K/P/T)
A2.16.1.          Create/Update AF IMT
                  2001 (Notification of
                                                *                                                                      2b        B        -          -
                  TCTO Kit
                  requirements)
A2.16.2.          Use MIS to order K/P/T
                                                                                                                        -        B        -          -
                  (if available)
A2.16.3.          Control and release of
                                                *                                                                       a        B        b          -
                  TCTO kits
A2.16.4.          Attend Monthly TCTO
                  reconciliation meeting                                                                                a        B        b
                  with Supply
A2.16.5.          Conduct Monthly
                  TCTO review meeting
                                                *                                                                       a        B        b          -
                  with Owning
                  workcenters
A2.17.            Maintenance and
                  Inspection Concepts
                                                                                                                       A         B        -          -
                  TR: TO 00-20 series,
                  AFI 21-101
A2.18.            Manage Major
                  Inspection Program
A2.18.1.          Identify major
                  inspection requirement        *                                                                      2b        B        -          -
                  using T.O.s
A2.18.2.          Initiate/maintain AF
                  IMT 2410,
                                                *                                                                      2b        A        -          -
                  Inspection/TCTO
                  Planning Checklist
A2.18.3.          Conduct Pre-dock
                                                *                                                                       b        B        -          -
                  meeting
A218.4.           Conduct Post-dock
                                                *                                                                       b        B        -          -
                  meeting
A2.19.            Manage Time Change
                  program



                                                                 31                                                               Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                                      STS 2R1X1
                                               2.               3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                      Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        Core          A         B         C          D           E          A       B            C
                                                    Tasks                                                             3 Skill     5       7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                      Level     Skill
                                                                                                                                Level
                                                                 Tng       Tng      Traine     Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)     (1)        (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete      e       Initials   Initials    Course    CDC     Course     CDC
                                                5           7                       Initials
A2.19.1.          Identify time change
                  requirements using TOs        *                                                                      2b        B        -          -
                  and Instructions
A2.19.2.          Establish JST for time
                                                *                                                                      2b        B        -          -
                  change item
A2.19.3.          Load Part/serial number
                                                *                                                                      2b        B        -          -
                  item in MIS
A2.19.4.          Verify/Load expiration
                  Date of Manufacture           *                                                                      2b        B       3c          -
                  (DOM)
A2.19.5.          Verify/Load expiration
                  Date of Installation          *                                                                      2b        B       3c          -
                  (DOI)
A2.19.6.          Determine Lot number
                                                *                                                                      2b        B       3c          -
                  due date
A2.19.7.          Verify/Load expiration
                                                *                                                                      2b        B       3c          -
                  Hours
A2.19.8.          Verify/Load expiration
                  of Cycles/Rounds                                                                                     2b        B        -          -
                  /Starts
A2.19.9.          Load Part/serial number
                                                *                                                                      2b        B        -          -
                  item to JST in MIS
A2.19.10.         Develop/verify time
                  change matrix for each                *                                                               b        B       3c          -
                  aircraft
A2.19.11.         Schedule time change
                                                *                                                                      2b        B        -          -
                  item in MIS
A2.19.12.         Validate time change
                  item replacement action       *                                                                      2b        B        -          -
                  in MIS
A2.19.13.         Complete quarterly
                  comprehensive review
                  of time change items for              *                                                               a        B       3c          -
                  each aircraft loaded to
                  MIS
A2.19.14.         Perform Job Master
                                                        *                                                               -        B       3c          -
                  Listing (JML) review
A2.19.15.         Munitions Accountable
                  Systems Officer                                                                                       -        A        -         B
                  (MASO) duties
A2.19.16.         Use AF Form 68,
                  Munitions
                                                                                                                        -        A        -         B
                  Authorization Record to
                  assign roles
A2.20.              Forecast time change
                             items

A2.20.1.          Cartridge Actuated
                  Devices / Propellant
                                                        *                                                               a        B       2b          -
                  Actuated Devices
                  (CAD/PAD)



                                                                 32                                                               Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                                      STS 2R1X1
                                               2.               3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                      Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        Core          A         B         C          D           E          A       B            C
                                                    Tasks                                                             3 Skill     5       7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                      Level     Skill
                                                                                                                                Level
                                                                 Tng       Tng      Traine     Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)     (1)        (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete      e       Initials   Initials    Course    CDC     Course     CDC
                                                5           7                       Initials
A2.20.2.          Non CAD/PAD items
                                                        *                                                                a       B       2b          -
A2.20.3.          Order time change
                                                *                                                                      2b        B        -          -
                  items
A2.20.4.          Generate Out-of-
                  cycle/emergency                       *                                                               a        A       2b         B
                  requests
A2.20.5.          Reconcile/validate time
                                                *                                                                       -        B        -          -
                  change requisitions
A2.20.6.          TCI reconciliation
                                                *                                                                       -        B        -          -
                  meetings
A2.20.7.          Maintain
                  waiver/extension                      *                                                               -        A       2b         B
                  message
A2.21.            Manage Special
                  inspections program
A2.21.1.          Create Job Standard for
                                                *                                                                      2b        B        -          -
                  SIs
A2.21.2.          Load SIs to part/serial
                                                *                                                                      2b        B        -          -
                  number
A2.21.3.          Load SIs to aircraft
                                                *                                                                      2b        A        -          -
A2.21.4.          Create Special
                  Inspection workorder in       *                                                                      2b        A        -          -
                  MIS
A2.21.5.          Update/verify
                  compliance via                *                                                                      2b        A        -          -
                  suspense validation
A2.21.6.          Develop/verify special
                  inspection matrix for                 *                                                               b        A        -         B
                  each aircraft
A2.21.7.          Complete quarterly
                  comprehensive review
                  of special inspections                *                                                              2b        A        -         B
                  for each aircraft loaded
                  to MIS
A2.21.8.          Perform review of the
                  Job Master Listing and
                                                        *                                                              2b        A        -         B
                  all Job Standard
                  Numbers loaded to MIS
A2.22.            Aircraft Generation
                  Planning
A2.22.1.          Develop, coordinate,
                  and prepare generation                                                                                -        -        -          -
                  flow plans per ATO
A2.23.            Aircraft/Equipment
                  records
A2.23.1.          Establish/Maintain
                  historical records using      *                                                                      2b        B        -          -
                  MIS/AFTO Form 95




                                                                 33                                                               Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                                      STS 2R1X1
                                               2.               3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                      Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        Core          A         B         C          D           E          A       B            C
                                                    Tasks                                                             3 Skill     5       7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                      Level     Skill
                                                                                                                                Level
                                                                 Tng       Tng      Traine     Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)     (1)        (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete      e       Initials   Initials    Course    CDC     Course     CDC
                                                5           7                       Initials
A2.23.2.          Perform jacket file
                                                *                                                                       b        B        -          -
                  review
A2.23.3.          Reconcile
                  aircraft/equipment
                                                        *                                                               -        B        -          -
                  records in MIS during
                  transfer
A2.23.4.          Inspect decentralized
                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
                  historical document
A2.24.            Planning and
                  Scheduling
                  TR: AFI 11-101, 16-
                  402, 21-101, 103, 201,
                  204, 114, 116, AFCSM
                  21-555V2, 565V2,
                  576V2, TO 00-20
                  series, 00-25 series,
                  AFTTP 3-21.1, Air
                  Force Data Dictionary
                  (AFDD)
A2.24.1.          Functions of
                  maintenance scheduling                                                                                b        B        -          -
                  meetings
A2.24.2.           First Look/Annual
                  Requirements
A2.24.2.1.        Evaluate maintenance
                  capability (manpower,
                  facilities, and
                                                                                                                        -        A       3c         B
                  equipment) to support
                  annual/monthly flying
                                                        *
                  hour requirements
A2.24.2.2.        Present maintenance/
                  aerospace vehicle
                  capabilities to support                                                                               -        A       3c         B
                  operational
                  requirements
A2.24.2.3.        Re-evaluate
                  Maintenance
                  capabilities to support                                                                               -        A       3c         B
                                                        *
                  the approved
                  operational contract
A2.24.3.          Identify and forecast
                  requirements
A2.24.3.1.        Quarterly Maintenance
                  and Operations
                  Planning
A2.24.3.1.1.      Aerospace Vehicles
                                                *                                                                      2b        B       3c          -
A2.24.3.1.2.      Engines
                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A2.24.3.1.3.      Armament/Munitions
                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
                  Equipment




                                                                 34                                                               Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                                      STS 2R1X1
                                               2.               3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                      Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        Core          A         B         C          D           E          A       B            C
                                                    Tasks                                                             3 Skill     5       7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                      Level     Skill
                                                                                                                                Level
                                                                 Tng       Tng      Traine     Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)     (1)        (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete      e       Initials   Initials    Course    CDC     Course     CDC
                                                5           7                       Initials
A2.24.3.1.4.      Aerospace Ground
                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
                  Equipment
A2.24.3.1.5.      Space Systems                                                                                         -        -        -          -

A2.24.3.2.        Develop monthly
                  utilization and
                  maintenance plan
A2.24.3.2.1.      Aerospace Vehicles
                                                *                                                                      2b        B       3c          -
A2.24.3.2.2.      Engines
                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A2.24.3.2.3.      Armament/Munitions
                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
                  Equipment
A2.24.3.2.4.      Aerospace Ground
                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
                  Equipment
A2.24.3.2.5.      Space Systems
                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A2.24.3.3.        Prepare weekly
                  utilization and
                  maintenance plan
A2.24.3.3.1.      Aerospace Vehicles
                                                *                                                                      2b        B        -          -
A2.24.3.3.2.      Engines
                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A2.24.3.3.3.      Armament/Munitions
                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
                  Equipment
A2.24.3.3.4.      Aerospace Ground
                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
                  Equipment
A2.24.3.3.5.      Space Systems
                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A2.24.3.4.        Plan daily utilization
                  and maintenance
                  requirements for              *                                                                      2b        B        -          -
                  aerospace vehicles and
                  related equipment
A2.24.4.          Load / Maintain
                  operational event data        *                                                                      2b        B        -          -
                  using MIS
A2.24.5.          Delayed discrepancy
                                                                                                                       A         B        -          -
                  management
A2.24.6.          Compute maintenance
                                                *                                                                      2b        B        -          -
                  scheduling effectiveness
A2.24.7.          Process AF IMT 2407,
                  Weekly/Daily Flying
                                                *                                                                      2b        B        -          -
                  Schedule Coordination

A2.25.            Aerospace vehicle
                  distribution officer
                  (AVDO) function




                                                                 35                                                               Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                                      STS 2R1X1
                                               2.               3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                      Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        Core          A         B         C          D           E          A       B            C
                                                    Tasks                                                             3 Skill     5       7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                      Level     Skill
                                                                                                                                Level
                                                                 Tng       Tng      Traine     Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)     (1)        (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete      e       Initials   Initials    Course    CDC     Course     CDC
                                                5           7                       Initials
A2.25.1.          Maintain Programmed
                  Depot Maintenance
                                                        *                                                               -        A        -         B
                  (PDM) schedule

A2.25.2.          Generate, coordinate
                  and submit AFTO IMT                   *                                                               -        A        -         B
                  103
A2.25.3.          Coordinate Dash-21
                  equipment                                                                                             -        -        -          -
                  accountability
A2.25.4.          Perform
                  Gain/Loss/Termination/
                  possession purpose
                                                        *                                                               -        B        c          -
                  identifier (PPI) change
                  in MIS

A2.25.5.          Process Gain / Loss /
                  Termination/PPI                       *                                                               -        B        c          -
                  message
A2.25.6.          Reconcile flying hours
                                                        *                                                               -        A        -         B
                  (monthly)
A2.26.            Engine Management
                  TR: AFI 21-101, 104,
                  AFCSM 21-556V2,
                  558V2, TO 00-20
                  series, 00-25 series, 00-
                  85 series, 2-1-18, 2J
                  series, applicable Type,
                  Model, Series, and
                  Modifications Series,
                  and applicable aircraft -
                  6
A2.26.1.          Maintenance
                  Information Systems

A2.26.1.1.        Comprehensive Engine
                  Management System                                                                                    A         B        -          -
                  (CEMS)
A2.26.1.2.        Global Integrated
                  Maintenance
                  Management System                                                                                    A         B        -          -
                  (GIMMS)

A2.26.2.          Time Change and
                  Special Inspection
                  management

A2.26.2.1.        Maintain Job Master
                  Listing (JML)                                                                                         -        -        -          -




                                                                 36                                                               Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                                      STS 2R1X1
                                               2.               3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                      Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        Core          A         B         C          D           E          A       B            C
                                                    Tasks                                                             3 Skill     5       7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                      Level     Skill
                                                                                                                                Level
                                                                 Tng       Tng      Traine     Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)     (1)        (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete      e       Initials   Initials    Course    CDC     Course     CDC
                                                5           7                       Initials
A2.26.2.2.        Develop/maintain TCI
                  and SI matrix                                                                                         -        A        -          -

A2.26.2.3.        Forecast engine or
                  module removal for
                  time change and                                                                                       -        B        -          -
                  inspection

A226.2.4.         Manage extension
                  waiver for select
                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
                  components

A2.26.2.5.        TCI reconciliation with
                  Flight Service Center                                                                                 -        -        -          -

A2.26.3.          Multiple Tracked
                  Equipment Transactions
A2.26.3.1.        Request/process engine
                  or module initialization
                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
                  deck (I-deck) in MIS

A2.26.3.2.        Identify engine or
                  module maintenance
                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
                  requirements

A2.26.3.3.        Verify/maintain
                  required item
                                                                                                                        -        B        -          -
                  installation (RII) table

A2.26.3.4.        Familiarization with
                  collection of
                  accumulated hour and
                                                                                                                        -        B        -          -
                  event data (manual or
                  electronic)

A2.26.3.5.        Process accumulated
                  hour and event data in
                                                                                                                        -        B        -          -
                  MIS

A2.26.3.6.        Perform quarterly
                  physical inventory                                                                                    -        B        -          -

A2.26.3.7.        Process
                  Status/Inventory
                                                                                                                        -        B        -          -
                  changes

A2.26.3.8.        Monitor Daily
                  Transaction Listing                                                                                   -        B        -          -




                                                                 37                                                               Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                                      STS 2R1X1
                                               2.               3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                      Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        Core          A         B         C          D           E          A       B            C
                                                    Tasks                                                             3 Skill     5       7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                      Level     Skill
                                                                                                                                Level
                                                                 Tng       Tng      Traine     Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)     (1)        (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete      e       Initials   Initials    Course    CDC     Course     CDC
                                                5           7                       Initials
A2.26.3.9.        Initialize part/serial
                  number components in
                                                                                                                        -        B        -          -
                  MIS

A2.26.3.10.       Identify and load
                  applicable K-
                                                                                                                        -        B        -          -
                  Factor/Formula

A2.26.3.11.       Initiate engine work
                  package                                                                                               -        -        -          -

A2.26.3.12.       Conduct engine pre-
                  dock meeting                                                                                          -        -        -          -

A2.26.3.13.       Conduct engine post-
                  dock meeting                                                                                          -        -        -          -

A2.26.3.14.       Verify engine work
                  package maintenance
                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
                  completion

A2.26.3.15.       Coordinate/prepare
                  engine for shipment                                                                                   -        B        -          -

A2.26.3.16.       Maintain physical
                  engine and module
                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
                  records

A2.26.3.17.       Verify engine to aircraft
                  times during aircraft
                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
                  document review

A2.26.3.18.       Provide engine data for
                  aircraft Dock inspection
                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
                  contract




                                                                 38                                                               Attachment 2
