DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                            CFETP 4T0X2
Headquarters US Air Force                                               Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                               1 March 2007


                                 AFSC 4T0X2
                              HISTOPATHOLOGY




                            CAREER FIELD
                     EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN


ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                                           AFSC 4T0X2
                                        HISTOPATHOLOGY
                                     CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
                                       AND TRAINING PLAN
HISTOPATHOLOGY SPECIALTY

Table of Contents

PART I
Preface                                                       4

Abbreviations, Acronyms, and Terms Explained                  5

Section A, General Information                                9
   Purpose of the CFETP
   Use of the CFETP
   Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B, Career Progression and Information                 10
   Specialty Descriptions
   Skill/Career Progression
   Duty Titles
   Training Decisions
   Enlisted Medical Badges
   Community College of the Air Force
   Career Field Path

Section C, Skill Level Training Requirements                  18
   Purpose
   Specialty Qualification Requirements
       Apprentice Level (3)
       Journeyman Level (5)
       Craftsman Level (7)
       Superintendent Level (9)

Section D, Resource Constraints                               20

Section E, Transitional Training Guide                        21




PART II
Section A, Specialty Training Standard                        22


Section B, Course Objective List                              35

Section C, Support Materials                                  35

Section D, Training Course Index                              35




                                                -2-
Section E, MAJCOM Unique Requirements                                                             36

Section F, Documentation of Training                                                              36



OPR: 382 TRS/TRR
Certified by: 81 MDG/CEM (CMSgt Moore)
Supersedes: CFETP4T0X2PT1-2, 5 January 1996 and CFETP4T0X2PT1-2C1, 3 January 1997
Pages: 44

Summary of Changes: This CFETP was revised and updated on the outcome of the 4T0X1/2/3 16-20 August
2004 Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). Changes were based on the January 2003 Occupational Survey
Report (OSR) and from Air Force MAJCOM functional representatives.




                                                  -3-
                          HISTOPATHOLOGY SPECIALTY
                                  AFSC 4T0X2
                   CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

PART I

Preface

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive document that
identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support resources, and minimum
core task requirements for the histopathology specialty. The CFETP will provide histopathology
personnel a clear career path to success and will instill rigor in all aspects of career field training.
NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions may use Part II to support duty position
qualification training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts; both parts are used by supervisors to plan, manage, and
control training within the career field.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C
associates each skill level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, training, and
other). Section D indicates resource constraints. Examples are funds, manpower, equipment,
and facilities. Section E identifies transition training guide requirements for the ranks of SSgt
through MSgt.

2.2. Part II provides training guidance for all skill levels. Section A identifies the Specialty
Training Standard (STS) and includes duties, tasks, technical references to support training, Air
Education and Training Command (AETC) conducted training, wartime tasks, core tasks, and
correspondence course requirements. Section B contains course objective information
supervisors will use to determine if an airman has satisfied training requirements. Section C
identifies available support materials. An example is a Qualification Training Package (QTP).
There are no QTPs required at this time for the histopathology specialty. Section D identifies a
training course index supervisors can use to determine resources available to support training.
Included here are both mandatory and optional courses. Section E identifies MAJCOM unique
training requirements supervisors can use to determine additional training required for the
associated qualification needs. Training for ARC personnel are identified in this section.
Section F provides guidance on managing and documenting enlisted training (medical specific)
and six-part competency folders.

3. Using CFETP guidance ensures individuals in this specialty receive effective and efficient
training at the appropriate career point. This plan enables us to train today's work force for
tomorrow's jobs. At the unit level, supervisors and trainers use Part II to identify, plan, and
conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.




                                                 -4-
Abbreviations/Terms Explained

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). The Air Force focal point for the designated
career field within a functional community. Serves as the primary advocate for the career field,
addressing issues and coordinating functional concerns across various staffs. Responsible for the
career field policy and guidance. For more information on AFCFM responsibilities, see AFI 44-
104, Military and Civilian Consultant Programs and Medical Enlisted Career Field Manager
Program. NOTE: For purposes of this CFETP, from this point forward the interchangeable
terms “AFCFM” or “CFM” refer to the 4T0XX AFCFM.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard/Command Job Qualification Standard
(AFJQS/CJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a particular job type or duty position.
Used by supervisors to document task qualifications. Tasks on an AFJQS/CJQS are common to
all persons serving in the described duty position.

Air Reserve Component (ARC). Term is used as an overarching term when referring to both
the Air Force Reserve Component (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) together.

Career Development Course (CDC). Nonresident, student instruction materials (self-study
correspondence course) designed to provide airmen with the fundamental knowledge of their
AFS

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). CFETP is a comprehensive core
training document that identifies: life-cycle education and training requirements; training
support resources, and minimum core task requirements for a specialty. The CFETP aims to
give personnel a clear path and instill a sense of industry in career field training. It is the formal
training contract between the AFCFM and AETC for formal accession and life-cycle skills
training.

Continuation Training. Additional training exceeding requirements with emphasis on present
or future duty assignments. Synonymous with proficiency training.

Core Task. Tasks that the AFCFM identifies as minimum qualification requirements within an
AFSC, regardless of duty position. Core tasks may be specified for a particular skill level or in
general across the AFSC. Guidance for completing core tasks is found in Part I, 5.2.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication, derived from the initial/advanced skills course
training standard, identifying tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective standards
provided, to achieve a 3-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to assist in
conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program;
Training Development, Delivery, and Education, Volume 1.

Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD). The AFECD replaced AFMAN 36-
2108, Enlisted Classification, effective Mar 06. Latest updates to duties/responsibilities and
specialty qualification can be found on the AFPC website, http://ask.afpc.randolph.af.mil/ ,




                                                 -5-
under the Career Planning tab, drop down through Assignment & Jobs, Military Classification,
and Enlisted Information to Enl AFSCs/SDI/RI.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Expeditionary Medical Support (EMEDS). Operational medical support concept of an Air
Force Theater Hospital (AFTH); the health support piece of the Expeditionary Aerospace Force.
EMEDS is modular, flexible, lean, state-of-the-art with capabilities that allows theater
commanders to tailor medical support to best suit their needs. See AFI 41-106, Medical
Readiness Planning and Training, for additional information.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer, paper text, interactive video, or other
necessary means to supplement training.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly, but flexible, process for
planning, developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures personnel
are taught in a cost efficient way the knowledge, skills, and attitudes essential for successful job
performance.

Initial Skills Training. A formal resident course that results in an AFSC 3-skill level award.

Interactive Courseware (ICW). ICW is computer-controlled courseware that relies on trainee
input to determine the pace, sequence, and content of training delivery using more than one type
of medium to convey the content of instruction. ICW can link a combination of media to
include, but not limited to, programmed instruction, videotapes, slides, film, television, text,
graphics, digital audio, animation, and up to full-motion video to enhance the learning process.

MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM). MFMs are appointed field representatives who
provide accurate, up-to-date information to enhance decisions made by the AFCFM. MFMs are
command focal points providing guidance, information, and support within the command on
enlisted issues. Additionally MFMs advise MAJCOM Surgeons General (SG) on utilization of
resources and personnel within their respective command.

Master Task Listing (MTL). Document maintained within a workcenter coded to identify all
tasks performed for each duty position.

Master Training Plan (MTP). A comprehensive training plan for a workcenter. It must
include the MTL, QTPs, AFJQS, task breakdowns, commercial publications, and any other
document that supports training (as applicable).

Occupational Survey Report (OSR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational
survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.




                                                -6-
On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, “over-the-shoulder” training conducted to certify
personnel in both upgrade (skill-level award) and job qualification (duty position certification)
training.

Proficiency Training. Additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training
courses, or OJT, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the
minimum required for upgrade.

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify
an individual in a specific duty position. This portion of the dual channel OJT program occurs
both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance
skills required to do the job.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional package designed for use at the unit
to qualify, or aid qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of equipment. It may
be printed, computer based, or in other audiovisual media.

Readiness Skills Verification Program (RSVP). A framework of recurring training tasks and
skills sets, established by the AFCFM, to ensure adequate experience and training for those
required skills, knowledge and proficiency in a deployed setting (RSVP requirements can be
located at the Knowledge Exchange Website: https://kx.afms.mil).

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and
equipment, that preclude desired training from being delivered.

Skills Training. A formal course which results in the award of a skill level.

Subject Matter Expert (SME). An individual appointed by the AFCFM who provides accurate
and up-to-date information to enhance decisions made by the AFCFM. SMEs are focal points
for providing guidance, information, and support on AFSC specific issues. Additionally, SMEs
advise MFMs, Command Surgeons, OTSG and other agencies on resource and personnel
utilization within the AFSC.

Specialty Training. A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (on-the-
job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in the award of a skill level.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes skills and
knowledge levels that airmen in a particular AFS need on the job. It further serves as a contract
between AETC and the user to show the overall training requirements for an AFSC that the
formal schools teach.

Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, established and defined by
authority, custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring
quantities or qualities, establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results. A fixed
quantity or quality.




                                               -7-
Task Certifier. A trained and qualified person that determines an individual’s ability to perform
a task to a required standard. See AFI 36-2201, vol. 3, Air Force Training Program On the Job
Training Administration, for further details.

Total Force. All collective Air Force components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian elements)
of the United States Air Force.

Trainer. A trained and qualified person who teaches airmen to perform specific tasks through
OJT methods. See AFI 36-2201, vol. 3, Air Force Training Program On the Job Training
Administration, for further details.

Upgrade Training (UGT). Mandatory training which leads to attainment of a higher level of
proficiency.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum lead by the AFCFM and the AETC
Training Pipeline Manager (TPM) that incorporates the expertise of MAJCOM Air Force
Specialty Code (AFSC) functional managers, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC
training personnel to determine career ladder training requirements.

Wartime Course. Comprised of those tasks that must be taught when courses are accelerated in
a wartime environment. Wartime tasks are the tasks to be taught in the 3-level course when the
wartime courses have been activated. In response to a wartime scenario, these tasks will be
taught in the 3-level course in a streamlined training environment. These tasks are only for those
career fields that still need them applied to their schoolhouse tasks.

Wartime Tasks. Tasks/Knowledge items trained during the accelerated resident wartime
course. Histopathology will suspend the Clinical Practicum portion of their 3-skill level training
program and provide training only on wartime tasks on the STS when an accelerated wartime
course is in use. Graduates of the wartime course will only have training on those identified
items to the specified proficiency code level. Wartime tasks are identified in column 2 of the
STS with a “w”.




                                               -8-
Section A - General Information

1. Purpose. This CFETP provides information necessary for the AFCFM, MFMs, commanders,
training managers, supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective
career field training program. This plan outlines the training that individuals in the 4T0X2
specialty should receive in order to develop and progress throughout their career. This plan
identifies initial skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency training. Initial skills
training is the AFS specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon
retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. For this AFSC, this is conducted by
the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology (AFIP) at Walter Reed Army Medical Center.

1.1. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, and
correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 5-, 7- and 9-skill levels.
Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an airman
in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade
training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills/knowledge required to do the
job. Proficiency training is additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced
training courses, or OJT, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the
minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP has several purposes, some are:

1.1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field
training program. Also, it helps supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an
individual's career.

1.1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty
and recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.

1.1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and the
training delivery method.

1.1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired career
field training process.

2. Uses. The plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure comprehensive
and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop/revise formal resident, non-resident, field and
exportable training based on requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of
the CFETP. They also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining
resources needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial,
upgrade, and proficiency requirements. Identified requirements are satisfied by OJT, resident
training, contract training, or exportable courses. MAJCOM-developed training to support this
AFSC must be identified for inclusion into this CFETP.




                                                 -9-
2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan.
The lists of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority for the CFETP. Also,
the AFCFM will initiate an annual review of this document by AETC and SMEs to ensure
currency and accuracy. MAJCOM representatives and AETC training personnel identify and
coordinate career field training requirements. Using the list of courses in Part II, they will
eliminate duplicate training. They will submit, through proper channels, initial and subsequent
changes to the CFETP.

Section B - Career Progression and Information

4. Specialty Descriptions.

4.1. Medical Laboratory Superintendent/Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM).

4.1.1. Specialty Summary. Manages all medical laboratory activities in support of patient care,
medical research, and military public health. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 311.

4.1.2. Duties and Responsibilities.

4.1.2.1. Plans and organizes laboratory activities. Composes and reviews local medical
laboratory operating instructions. Advises superiors regarding status and adequacy of
equipment, supplies, budgets, personnel training, and operating efficiency. Coordinates with
other activities, agencies, and organizations.

4.1.2.2. Directs medical laboratory activities. Resolves problems concerning medical
laboratory activities. Ensures supply and equipment availability. Applies continuous and
effective internal quality control of all medical laboratory elements.

4.1.2.3. Inspects and evaluates medical laboratory activities. Furnishes deficiency reports
and outstanding accomplishments to superiors. Interprets inspection findings and recommends
corrective action. Supervises laboratory work area maintenance according to good laboratory
techniques, taking precautions to maintain safe conditions for both medical treatment facility and
laboratory personnel. Evaluates laboratory quality control program effectiveness.

4.1.2.4. Performs medical laboratory functions. Assists medical officers and allied scientists
in research assignments pertaining to the field of pathology. Directs toxicology procedures
incident to aerospace pathology and forensic medicine programs. Assists in developing
procedures for detecting bacteriological agents incident to biological warfare.

4.2. Histopathology Apprentice/Journeyman/Craftsman.

4.2.1. Specialty Summary. Performs sub-professional duties at autopsies, prepares autopsy and
surgical specimens, and supervises histopathology activities. Related DoD Occupational
Subgroup: 311.



                                              - 10 -
4.2.2. Duties and Responsibilities.

4.2.2.1. Prepares surgical, cytological, and autopsy specimens. Receives and prepares
specimens for fixation, dehydration, and impregnation processes by either manually or
automatically sending specimens through a series of formalins, alcohols, clearing agents, and
paraffin. Embeds tissues and prepares paraffin blocks for cutting on rotary microtome. Attaches
cut tissues on specialty prepared microslides and clears paraffin from tissues. Obtains tissue
slides by surgical, cytological, or autopsy number. Submits finished tissue slides to the
pathologist along with pertinent clinical data received from originating agency and gross
examination by the pathologist. Performs special stains and procedures

4.2.2.2. Performs duties at autopsies. Serves a technical assistant at autopsies. Assists
pathologist in opening abdominal, pleural, and cranial cavities; examining various organs; and
procuring and handling specimens from these organs. Prepares remains for transfer to mortuary,
to include cleaning and closing all incisions. Labels and stores autopsy specimens until
pathologist makes final examination prior to fixing, embedding, and staining.

4.2.2.3. Maintains histopathology records and instruments. Maintains complete records of
all surgical, cytological, and autopsy specimens, to include filing and storing paraffin blocks and
stained tissue slides by accession number. Prepares and ships blocks, slides, and diagnosis
reports to various military and civilian medical facilities. Maintains all surgical and autopsy
instruments.

4.2.2.4. Performs quality assurance. Evaluates current and new procedures for
implementation and effectiveness. Monitors specimen handling, cutting, and staining quality;
and equipment and controlled substances inventory. Assists in maintaining accreditation
standards.

5. Skill/Career Progression. Training and timely progression from apprentice to
superintendent are important roles in the Air Force's ability to accomplish its mission. It is
essential that everyone involved in training do his or her part to plan, manage, and conduct an
effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will ensure each
individual receives viable training at appropriate points in their career. The following narratives
and the AFSC 4T0X2 career field flowchart in Section 10 defines the training career path.

5.1. Apprentice 3-Skill Level. Initial skills training in this specialty consists of tasks and
knowledge provided in the 3-skill level resident Histopathology Apprentice Course
(J5ABD4T032 001) located at the Armed Services Institute of Pathology (AFIP). This nine-
month course includes six months of extensive didactic training followed by three months of
clinical practicum training. The decision to train on specific task and knowledge items is based
on a review of occupational survey report (OSR) data, and a review of training requirements by
4T0X2 SMEs. Task and knowledge requirements are identified in the specialty training standard
(STS) in Part II, Section A of this CFETP.




                                               - 11 -
5.2. Journeyman 5-Skill Level. Upgrade training to the 5-skill level in this specialty consists
of successfully completing: (1) all STS core tasks for the assigned duty position, (2) all core
tasks specified by an (*) in column 2 of the STS (see note below). Upon arrival to their first
permanent duty position, individuals begin 5-skill level upgrade training using the current
4T0X2 CFETP and a SME approved Training Plan. Individuals are highly encouraged to take
the American Society of Clinical Pathologists (ASCP) Histotechnician (HT) certification
examination. Once upgraded to the 5-skill level, a journeyman will maintain proficiency by
completing all continuation training required or specified by command or local policies. SrA
will attend ALS after reaching 48 months TAFMS or after being selected for promotion to SSgt.

NOTE: All core tasks will be certified by task performance, task knowledge or subject
knowledge. Core tasks and other STS items performed in the duty position must be circled.
Core tasks not performed in the current duty position are not required to be circled.

5.3. Craftsman 7-Skill Level. Upgrade training to the 7-skill level in this specialty consists of
completing: (1) all core tasks, and (2) all STS tasks for the assigned duty position. A
histopathology craftsman can be expected to fill various supervisory and management positions
within the laboratory such as NCOIC of the laboratory or department. In addition, they may
develop work schedules for subordinate personnel and ensure necessary manning levels are
maintained at all time during hours of laboratory operations. Seven-levels should take courses or
obtain added knowledge on management of resources and personnel. Continued academic
education through CCAF and higher degree programs is encouraged

5.4. Superintendent 9-Skill Level. To be awarded AFSC 4T090, an individual must be a
SMSgt and meet any other requirement specified in AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel
(Officer and Airmen). A 9-skill level can be expected to fill positions such as Superintendent of
Laboratory Services, or various staff positions within a medical group, such as Squadron
Superintendent. Additional training in the areas of budget, manpower, resources, and personnel
management should be pursued through continuing education. Additional higher education and
completion of courses related to their career AFSC are also recommended.

6. Duty Titles. Appropriate duty titles for personnel working in this specialty depend on rank,
skill level, and/or actual duty position as specified on the Unit Manning Document (UMD).
Generally, 4T032 personnel will have the title, Histopathology Apprentice; 4T052 personnel will
have the title, Histopathology Journeyman; and 4T072 personnel will have the title,
Histopathology Craftsman. In those instances where an NCO is responsible for managing a
distinct element of the laboratory—or the laboratory as a whole—with more than one staff
personnel assigned, the title, NCOIC, XXXX Element/Flight, is appropriate. Additional use of
the NCOIC title should be strictly limited. The NCOIC title is reserved exclusively for NCOs.
The Assistant NCOIC title will not be used. The title Superintendent is used only by SMSgt
4T090s, or MSgt 4T07Xs filling a 4T090 position on the UMD. MSgts and below filling MSgt
and below positions will NOT use the title Superintendent. CMSgt 4T000s may use the title,
Manager, XXXX Flight/Squadron. A SMSgt 4T090 assigned to a CMSgt billet may also use the
Manager title. 4T0XX are restricted to one duty title; in instances where personnel hold two
significant duties, the duty title should reflect the position more than 50% of the member’s time
is spent performing.



                                             - 12 -
7. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the 4T0X2 career field. The
spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet training requirements. The
strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce duplication of training and eliminate a
disjointed approach to training. The following training decisions were made during the AFSC
4T0X1/2/3 Utilization and Training Workshop, held 16-20 August 2004 at Sheppard AFB, TX.
A follow-up coordination was done by the AFCFM with SMEs and AETC training personnel.

7.1. Initial Skills Training. The Histopathology Apprentice course must meet the National
Accrediting Agency for Clinical Laboratory Sciences (NAACLS) guidelines. The initial skills
course provides airmen the needed education, motivation and training skills necessary to become
3-skill level apprentices.

7.2. 5-Skill Level Upgrade Requirements. Completion of a SME approved 5-skill level
upgrade training plan, which will be issued to each base histotechnicians are assigned, in
addition to each medical facilities specific duty requirements.

NOTE: Core tasks can be satisfied by the trainee either by demonstrating subject knowledge to
the specified skill level or performing the actual procedure. Subject knowledge levels are used
alone when the tasks are not performed in the current duty position, and appropriate
documentation is annotated on the AF Form 623A, On-The-Job Training Record
Continuation Sheet.

7.3. 7-Skill Level Upgrade Requirements. As identified in the STS. A SME approved Basic
Training Plan will be used as a basic guide for upgrade training. Individual bases may add
information pertinent to their particular location to the training plan.

8. Enlisted Medical Badge. Although AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air
Force Personnel, states the enlisted medical badge is an optional uniform item, it is strongly
recommended all 4T0X2 personnel authorized to wear the badge signifying their skill level do so
proudly – identifying them as Air Force Medical Service professionals.

8.1. Basic Enlisted Medical Badge. Authorized for wear after award of the 3-skill level. It is
highly encouraged that students graduating from the Histopathology Apprentice Course are
awarded this initial badge as part of their graduation ceremony.

8.2. Senior Enlisted Medical Badge. Worn after award of the 7-skill level.

8.3. Master Enlisted Medical Badge. Authorized for wear by MSgts and higher with five
years experience in the specialty from award of the 7-skill level.

9. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). Enrollment in CCAF automatically occurs
upon completion of Basic Military Training. CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an
Associate in Applied Science Degree in Histologic Technology. Completion of initial skills




                                             - 13 -
training in the Histotechnology Apprentice course satisfies the technical education and the
program elective requirements for a CCAF degree.

9.1. Degree Requirements. Prior to being awarded a CCAF associate degree, an enlisted
member must complete their 5-skill level and complete all degree requirements before
separating, retiring, or becoming a commissioned officer. Complete degree requirements can be
found in the CCAF General Catalog located at: http://www.maxwell.af.mil/au/ccaf . View
newest catalog index under the publications heading, choose Degree Programs by Title and look
for Histologic Technology (7GAE) degree program elements that match the candidates
curriculum start date.

9.1.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of
Technical Core subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied from
Technical Core/Technical Elective subjects/courses.

9.1.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Professional
military education and/or civilian management courses. However, the preferred method of
completing leadership, management and military studies is through attending an airman
leadership school, the NCO academy, and/or the Air Force Senior NCO Academy.

9.1.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): The requirement is satisfied by the completion
of Basic Military Training.

9.1.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement with
the definitions of applicable General Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF
General catalog.

9.1.5. Program Electives (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Management and Military Studies; or General Education subject/courses, including natural
science courses meeting GER application criteria. Six semester hours of CCAF degree
applicable technical credits otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied. See the
CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associate of Applied Science for this specialty.

9.2. Off-duty Education. Additional off-duty education is a personal choice and is highly
encouraged. Pursuing a degree is not mandatory for career progression.

9.3. Occupational Instructor Certification. Individuals desiring to become an AETC
Instructor should actively pursue an associate degree. Currently, Air Force Histopathology
Apprentice Course instructors are not eligible for the Occupational Instructor Certificate due to
the Histopathology Apprentice Course being a DoD course.

9.4. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill
certification is awarded for the primary occupational specialty. CCAF uses a competency based
assessment process for trade skill certification at one of four proficiency levels: Apprentice,




                                              - 14 -
Journeyman, Craftsman/Supervisor, or Master Craftsman/Manager. All are transcribed on the
CCAF transcript.

NOTE: Students who have completed Histopathology Apprentice course and desire
certification should contact the American Society of Clinical Pathologists (ASCP), 1-800-621-
4142, http://www.ascp.org.* Certain states require certification for their locale – please check
your local area to see if additional certification, outside of ASCP, is required.

The Air Force will reimburse members for one certification examination session. In addition, if
recertification is required by the certifying agency, the Air Force provides reimbursement in
those instances as well. Refer to AFI 41-104, Professional Boards and National Certification
Examinations, for more detailed information and requirements regarding certification programs.

*No Air Force or Federal endorsement of any organization is inferred, implied or intended.




                                              - 15 -
10. Career Field Path. Charts depicting this specialty's career path are presented on this and
the next page. The Histopathology (4T0X2) Enlisted Career Path outlines when training is
required for each skill level and function within this specialty. The Enlisted Education and
Training Path presents education and training requirements, average sew-on time for stripes,
and a chart representing earliest date of rank and high year of tenure (HYT) dates for ranks of
SrA and above.

10.1. Histopathology (4T0X2) Enlisted Career Path.




               HISTOPATHOLOGY
                     4T0X2
              ENLISTED CAREER PATH
                                                         CFM                 CMSGT
                                                  LABORATORY
                                                  MANAGER



                                                                     O           S           SMSGT
                                                                         F           N
                                                     C           C
                                    SUPERINTENDENT                           F           C
                                                         E           C
                                                                                             O
                                                                         A           D
                                                             R                                   A
                                                     I
                                                                                         U
                                                                                                          MSGT
                                                                 T           F
                                                         N
                                                                                             T
                                                                     I
                                                             S
                                     NCOIC                                                       Y
                                                                         F           D
                                     LARGE                       T
                                      LAB                                                E
                                                                             I                        E
                                                                     R                                        N
                                                                                 C           G
                                                                         U                                D       C
                                                                                     A           R
                                                                                                              U
                                                                                                                                  TSGT
                                                                             C                                        O
                            CRAFTSMAN
                              NCOIC                                                      T           E
                                                                                 T                                C       A
                               LAB
                                                                                              I          E
                                                                                     O                                A
                                                                                                  O                       T
                                                                                         R
                                                                                                      N                       I       __       SSGT
               BASE LEVEL LABORATORY OPERATIONS                                              OJT
                                                                                                                                  O
                                                                                                                                           A
               HISTOPATHOLOGY APPRENTICE/JOURNEYMAN                            UPGRADE                                                N
                                                                             QUALIFICATION
                                                                                                                                               L
                                                                               TRAINING
                                                                                                                                                   S   _ AMN


                       RETRAINEES       FORMAL TECHNICAL SCHOOL




                                                         - 16 -
  10.2. Enlisted Promotion, Education and Training Path.
                         Enlisted Promotion, Education and Training Path
                                                         GRADE REQUIREMENTS
Education and Training Requirements                    Average     Earliest High Year Of Tenure
                                                            Rank           Sew-on *           Sew-on                   (HYT) **
Basic Military Training                                     AB
Upgrade To Apprentice: Technical Schools                    Amn          6 months
(3-Skill Level)
- Histopathology Apprentice Course (J5ABD4T032
001)
                                                            A1C         16 months
Senior Airman Below-the-Zone Promotion                      A1C           Awarded            6 months
- Promotion Board for all eligible airmen                                only to 15%        before Fully
- To be eligible, must have 28 months TIG or 36                           of eligible        Qualified
  months TIS w/20 months TIG & proper skill level                           A1C’s
Upgrade To Journeyman                                       SrA            3 years         28 months                  12 years
(5-Skill Level)
- Minimum 18 months in UGT or 6 months for
retrainees
Airman Leadership School (ALS)                                                              Trainer
- Must be a SrA with >48 months time in service or be     - Complete Air Force Training Course
  a SSgt selectee                                         - Must have supervisors recommendation; possess the same AFSC at a
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt sew-on     higher skill level than the trainee, task qualified and be certified to train
  (active duty only)                                        others by completing Air Force Training Course


Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)                        SSgt         6.5 years           3 years                  20 years
- Minimum rank of SSgt
- 12 months UGT – or 6 months for retrainees
- Must be a 7-skill level to sew on TSgt
                                                                                            Certifier
                                                          - At least a SSgt w/ 5 skill-level or civilian equivalent capable of task eval
                                                          - Completed Air Force Training Course
                                                          - Be a person other than the trainer
Noncommissioned Officer Academy                             TSgt        13.5 years           5 years                  24 years
(NCOA)
- Must be a TSgt or TSgt selectee
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt sew-on
                                                           MSgt         16.5 years           8 years                  26 years
  (active duty only)
- Upon selection to MSgt, it is highly recommended
that the selectee complete the SNCOA Correspondence
Course (Course 12)
USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)                           SMSgt         19.5 years          11 years                  28 years
- Must be a CMSgt selectee, SMSgt or SMSgt selectee,
  or a MSgt selected to attend (active duty only)
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for CMSgt
  sew-on (active duty only)
Upgrade To Superintendent
(9-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SMSgt
- In-residence SNCOA grad req’d for promotion to
  CMSgt (active Duty only)
Upgrade To Chief Enlisted Manager                         CMSgt         21.6 years          14 years                  30 years
(4T000)
  * Based on average TIS, per grade, for promotion cycles 1996-2001, 4T0X1 selectees only
  ** May extend for up to 2 extra years if allowable under periodic personnel programs (contact local MPF for more information)




                                                              - 17 -
Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements

11. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of tasks
and knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for
each skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry,
award and retention of each skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements
are identified in the STS at Part II, Sections A and B, of this CFETP.

12. Apprentice Level Training (3-skill level):

12.1. Specialty Qualifications:

12.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory regarding methods of fixing, staining,
embedding, and cutting all types of tissues; properties of various biological stains and reagents;
autopsy procedures; equipment maintenance; and medical terminology, ethics, and basic
administration.

12.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school or college courses in
algebra and chemistry are mandatory. Completion of courses in biology, zoology, and other
basic sciences is desirable.

12.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 4T032, completion of the histopathology apprentice
course is mandatory.

12.1.4. Experience. For AFSC 4T032, no prior experience is mandatory for the award of the 3-
skill level. Trainees are required to satisfy the specific subject and task knowledge training
requirements according to Column 4A of the STS.

12.1.5. Other. For entry into this specialty, normal color vision, as defined in AFI 48-123,
Medical Examination and Standards, is mandatory.

12.2. Training Sources/Resources. For AFSC 4T032, successful completion of
Histopathology Apprentice Course (JAABD4T032 00AA) satisfies the knowledge and training
requirements specified in the specialty qualification section.

12.3. Implementation. Entry into AFSC 4T032, initial skills training, is accomplished by
pipeline students from basic training or by approved retraining from any AFSC.

13. Journeyman Level Training (5-skill level):

13.1. Specialty Qualifications. All 4T032 qualifications apply for the 4T052 requirements.

13.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to the knowledge required for a 3-level, the following subjects
are mandatory: increased knowledge of safety and health hazards; professional conduct; routine
equipment maintenance; general management principles; general laboratory cleanliness; and
increased knowledge of principles and procedures in all areas of histopathology.



                                               - 18 -
13.1.2. Education. N/A

13.1.3. Training. Completion of a SME approved Upgrade Training (UGT) Plan.

13.1.4. Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of the 4T052 AFSC:
qualification in and possession of AFSC 4T032 and completion of upgrade training
requirements.

13.1.5. Other. Same as AFSC 4T032.

13.2. Training Sources/Resources. Successful completion of SME approved 5-skill level UGT
Plan satisfies the knowledge requirements specified in the specialty qualification for the award
of the 5-skill level.

13.3. Implementation. Entry into 5-skill level upgrade training is initiated immediately after
arrival at first permanent duty station. The 5-skill level is awarded when an individual: (1)
possesses the 3-skill level, (2) completes a minimum of 15 months in 5-skill level UGT; 6
months for retrainees, (3) completes the appropriate approved SME UGT Plan to include
completing all core tasks specified in column 2 of the STS and all STS tasks for the assigned
duty position, and (4) is recommended by their supervisor according to AFI 36-2101, Classifying
Military Personnel (Officers and Enlisted).

14. Craftsman Level Training (7-skill level):

14.1. Specialty Qualifications. All 4T052 qualifications apply to 4T072 requirements.

14.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to the knowledge required for the 5-skill level, the following
subjects are mandatory: increased knowledge of health and safety hazards, and implementation
of programs designed to minimize such hazards; laboratory management functions – to include
budgeting, scheduling, procurement of supplies and equipment, and related administrative
principles; and increased knowledge of principles and procedures in the areas of specimen
collection, processing and shipment.

14.1.2. Education. N/A

14.1.3. Training. Completion of SME approved 7-skill level UGT Plan.

14.1.4. Experience. The following experience is mandatory for the award of the 4T072 AFSC:
qualification and possession of AFSC 4T052.

14.1.5. Other. Same as AFSC 4T032.

14.2. Training Sources/Resources. Completion of SME approved 7-skill level UGT Plan
satisfies the knowledge and performance training requirements specified in the specialty
qualifications for the award of the 7-skill level.



                                             - 19 -
14.3. Implementation. The 7-skill level is awarded when an individual: (1) possesses the 5-
skill level and is in the rank of SSgt or above, (2) completes a minimum of 12 months UGT; 6
months for retrainees, (3) completes all STS tasks for the assigned duty position, (4) completes
SME approved 7-skill level UGT Plan, and (5) is recommended by their supervisor.

15. Superintendent Level (9-skill level):

15.1. Specialty Qualifications. All 4T071 qualifications apply to 4T090 requirements.

15.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge of overall administrative, logistical, managerial and technical
laboratory activities is mandatory.

15.1.2. Education. Completion of an Associates Degree in Histologic Technology highly
encouraged. Completion of additional degrees in medical laboratory or management-related
fields of study is encouraged.

15.1.3. Training. There are no formal training requirements.

15.1.4. Experience. For award of AFSC 4T090, qualification in and possession of either AFSC
4T071, 4T072, or 4T073 is mandatory.

15.1.5. Other. Same as AFSC 4T032.

15.2. Training Sources/Resources. N/A.

15.3. Implementation. The 9-skill level is awarded when an individual: (1) possesses a 7-skill
level, (2) is a SMSgt, and (3) has completed any other requirements specified in AFI 36-2101.

Section D - Resource Constraints

16. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints which preclude optimal/desired
training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower.
Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what
effect each constraint has on training are included. Also, included in this section are actions
required, office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource constraints will
be, at a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

17. Apprentice 3-Skill Level Training: No 3-skill level resource constraints exist.

18. Journeyman 5-Skill Level Training: No 5-skill level resource constraints exist.

19. Craftsman 7-Skill Level Training: No 7-skill level resource constraints exist.

Section E - Transitional Training Guide – There are currently no transitional training
requirements. This area is reserved.



                                              - 20 -
Part II

Section A - Specialty Training Standard

1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC for
Histopathology Class 070108 graduating 070921

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, Vol 5, Air Force Training Program; Career Field
Education and Training, this STS:

2.1. Lists in column 1 (Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical References) the most common tasks,
knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for airman to perform duties in the 3-, 5-,
and 7-skill level. Number task statements sequentially (i.e., 1.1, 1.2, 2.1). Column 2
(Core/Wartime Tasks) identifies Core Tasks by asterisk (*) for specialty-wide training
requirements, and tasks identified in column 2 with a “w” are trained in the resident wartime
course.

2.2. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and
knowledge training requirements. Some boxes in this column may be divided by a diagonal
slash as warranted to reflect wartime training requirements as required. Use automated training
management systems to document technician qualifications, if available.

2.3. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the
proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the task/
knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course. See CADRE/
AFSC/CDC listing maintained by the unit training manager for current CDC listings. If the
supervisor wants the trainee skilled at a higher level than is indicated, additional qualification
training must occur at the local level, and be documented appropriately on the trainee’s AF Form
623A.

2.4. Qualitative Requirements. The page prior to the STS contains the proficiency code key
used to indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career
development courses.

2.5. Becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job training when placed in the 6-
part folder, Part 2, Section B, with AF Form 623, Individual Training Record, and used IAW
AFI 36-2201. AF Form 623B should be used in lieu of AF Form 623. When used as a JQS, the
following requirements apply:

2.5.1. Documentation. Document and certify completion of training in accordance with AFI
36-2201 V3.

2.5.1.1. Converting from an old document to new CFETP. Conversion to this CFETP is
mandatory. Use this CFETP STS to identify and certify all past and current qualifications.
Document previous and current in accordance with AFI 36-2201 V3.




                                              - 21 -
2.5.1.2. Documenting Career Knowledge. When a CDC is not available: the supervisor
identifies STS training references that the trainee requires for career knowledge and ensures, as a
minimum, that trainees cover the mandatory items in the Enlisted Classification Directory,
http://ask.afpc.randolph.af.mil/ , under Military Classification, Enlisted AFSCs. For two-time
CDC course exam failures: supervisors identify all STS items corresponding to the areas
covered by the CDC. The trainee completes a study of STS references, undergoes evaluation by
the task certifier, and receives certification on the STS. NOTE: Career Knowledge must be
documented prior to submitting a CDC waiver. CDC is not available for this AFSC at this time.

2.5.1.3. Decertification and Recertification. When an Airman is found to be unqualified on a
task previously certified for his or her position, the supervisor erases the previous certification or
deletes previous certification when using an automated system. Appropriate remarks are entered
on the AF Form 623A, On-The-Job Training Record Continuation Sheet, as to the reason for
decertification. The individual is recertified (if required) either by erasing the old entries and
writing in the new or by using correction fluid (if the entries were made in ink) over the
previously certified entry.

2.5.2. Training Standard. Tasks are trained and qualified to the go/no go level. “Go” means
the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets local demands for accuracy,
timeliness, and correct use of procedures. “No go” means the individual cannot perform to the
required level to meet local demands.

2.6. The STS is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman
Promotion System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the USAF
Occupational Measurement Squadron by senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in
their career fields. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test
development team members as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are
based upon study references listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are in
chapter 1, paragraph 1.19, and chapter 5 of AFI 36-2605, Air Force Military Personnel Testing
System. SKT is not available for this AFSC at this time.

3. Recommendations. Identify inadequacies and recommended changes to this training
standard through channels to 882 TRG/TTS, 939 Missile Rd, Ste 3, Sheppard AFB TX 76311-
2245. Use the Customer Services Information Line (CSIL), DSN 736-2385, or e-mail
882trg.csil@sheppard.af.mil to report your findings.

BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE


OFFICIAL                                                 JAMES G. ROUDEBUSH
                                                         Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
                                                         Surgeon General




                                                - 22 -
This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                         Initials (Written)            SSAN


                                             Printed Name Of Trainer, Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                      N/I


N/I                                                                        N/I


N/I                                                                        N/I


N/I                                                                        N/I


N/I                                                                        N/I


N/I                                                                        N/I


N/I                                                                        N/I


N/I                                                                        N/I



                                               QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                              Proficiency Code Key
                                    Scale       Definition: The individual
                                    Value
                                       1        Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task.
                                                (EXTREMELY LIMITED)
          Task                         2        Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (PARTIALLY PROFICIENT)

      Performance                      3        Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (COMPETENT)

         Levels                        4        Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task.
                                                (HIGHLY PROFICIENT)
                                       a        Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (NOMENCLATURE)

        *Task                          b        Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (PROCEDURES)

      Knowledge                        c        Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                                                (OPERATING PRINCIPLES)
         Levels                       d         Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (ADVANCED THEORY)

                                      A         Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (FACTS)

       **Subject                      B         Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject.
                                                (PRINCIPLES)
      Knowledge                       C         Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (ANALYSIS)

       Levels                         D         Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (EVALUATION)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC (training must be
conducted through OJT).

X This mark is used alone in course columns to show that training was required but not given due to limitations in resources.




                                                                         - 23 -
     NOTE 1.         Users are responsible for updating and annotating the list of Technical
                     References (TR) to indicate current references pending STS revisions.
     NOTE 2.         Training References as listed in the source summary are commercial
                     publications essential for OJT and mission accomplishment. Unit
                     Training and Education sections will consolidate requirements for their
                     units and order publications through the MTF library activity.
     NOTE 3.         Items annotated with an asterisk (*) in Column 2 of the STS are tasks
                     identified as core requirements by the AFCFM and 4T0X2 SMEs and
                     must be certified during skill level UGT.
     NOTE 4.         During the implementation of the wartime course chart only items
                     annotated with a “w” in Column 2 of the STS will be taught.
                     Histopathology training will be reduced to 100 training days/didactics will
                     be suspended; only performance tasks will be taught. Wartime
                     proficiencies for Histopathology training are indicated in column 2.
     NOTE 5          Commercial Reference Texts can be used for STS elements 9 & 11 – 15.

1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2.      3. Certification For OJT                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                               Core                                                              To Indicate Training/
                                               Tasks                                                             Information Provided
                                               (*)
                                                          A            B         C          D           E           A         B         C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                  Level     Level     Level

                                                        Training    Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Course     OJT       OJT
                                                       Start Date   Complete
                                                                      Date     Initials   Initials   Initials


1. CAREER LADDER
PROGRESSION
TR: AFIs 36-2101, 36-2306, 41-104, 44-
102, AFPDs 41-1, 44-1, CCAF Catalog
1.1. The Airman career ladder and                                                                                  A          -         -
educational opportunities
1.2. 4T0X2 career ladder progression                                                                               A          -         -
1.3. 4T0X2 duties                                                                                                  A          -         -
1.4. AFMS/Laboratory Service                                                                                       A          -         -
organization and mission




                                                        - 24 -
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2.      3. Certification For OJT                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                               Core                                                              To Indicate Training/
                                               Tasks                                                             Information Provided
                                               (*)
                                                          A            B         C          D           E           A         B         C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                  Level     Level     Level

                                                        Training    Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Course     OJT       OJT
                                                       Start Date   Complete
                                                                      Date     Initials   Initials   Initials


2.MEDICAL READINESS
TR: AFI 41-106
(Initial Medical Readiness Training
directed by AFI 41-106 is provided in the
Basic Medical Readiness course
conducted at 882d Training Group,
SAFB, TX. Completed training is
documented on front side of the student
training record for each course graduate.
All 4T0X2 personnel that do not receive
Initial Medical Readiness Training at
SAFB must be trained at unit level within
six months of after arrival to their first
permanent duty station. Continuing/on-
going Medical Readiness Training for the
individual is the responsibility of each
MTF.)
2.1. Initial Medical Readiness Training                                                                             -         -         -
(Initial Medical Readiness Training
directed by AFI 41-106 will be provided
at unit level within 6 months of
assignment. On-going Medical Readiness
Training for the individual is the
responsibility of each MTF.)
2.2. Biowarfare and bioterrorism                                                                                    -         -         -
3. BASIC LIFE SUPPORT (BLS)                                                                                         -         -         -
(Fundamental principles of BLS are
taught in 3 skill level Phase II course.
All students will be BLS certified as
part of the Phase II program. Training
completion will be documented on the
students AETC Form 156.
4. AF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY &
HEALTH (AFOSH) PROGRAM
TR: AFIs 91-301 & 91-302; AFOSH
STD 91-8, NCCLS, Clinical Laboratory
Safety (GP17-A)
4.1. Hazards/AFOSH standards                                                                                       A          -         -
4.2. Exercise safety precautions                                                                                   A          -         -
4.3. Accident reporting                                                                                            A          -         -




                                                        - 25 -
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2.      3. Certification For OJT                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                               Core                                                              To Indicate Training/
                                               Tasks                                                             Information Provided
                                               (*)
                                                          A            B         C          D           E           A         B         C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                  Level     Level     Level

                                                        Training    Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Course     OJT       OJT
                                                       Start Date   Complete
                                                                      Date     Initials   Initials   Initials


4.4. Manage safety and chemical hygiene                                                                            A          -         -
programs
5. PROFESSIONAL AND PATIENT
RELATIONSHIPS
TR: AFI 44-102; DoD 5500.7, Chapter
12, Sections 3, 4, 5, & 6, Knock Your
Socks Off Service
5.1. Professional standards of ethics                                                                                                   -
5.2. Customer Service
5.2.1 AFMS customer service standards                                                                                         -         -
5.2.2. Identification of key AFMS                                                                                             -         -
customers.
5.3. Practice customer care basics
5.3.1. Listening techniques                                                                                                   -         -
5.3.2. Face-to-face contact (nonverbal                                                                                        -         -
communication)
5.4. Reinforcement of good customer                                                                                           -         -
service with customer follow-up
6. MEDICAL MATERIEL
PROCEDURES
TR: AFMAN 23-110, Vol. 5
6.1. Air Force accountability and                                                                                  A          -         -
responsibility
6.2. Prepare request for issue/turn-in of                                                                          A          -         -
supplies and equipment
6.3. Maintain supply discipline                                                                                    A          -         -
6.4. Methods of procurement                                                                                        A          -         -
7. SUPERVISION
TR: AFIs 36-2103, 36-2406, 36-2503,
36-2907, AFPAMs 36-2241V1, 36-
2241V2, 36-2627, Local Policies
7.1. Orient new personnel                                                                                           -         -         -
7.2. Plan and schedule work assignments                                                                             -         -         -
and priorities
7.3. Establish:




                                                        - 26 -
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2.      3. Certification For OJT                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                               Core                                                              To Indicate Training/
                                               Tasks                                                             Information Provided
                                               (*)
                                                          A            B         C          D           E           A         B         C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                  Level     Level     Level

                                                        Training    Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Course     OJT       OJT
                                                       Start Date   Complete
                                                                      Date     Initials   Initials   Initials


7.3.1. Work methods                                                                                                 -         -         -
7.3.2. Work controls                                                                                                -         -         -
7.3.3. Performance standards                                                                                        -         -         -
7.4. Evaluate work performance of                                                                                   -         -         -
subordinate personnel
7.5. Resolve technical problems for                                                                                 -         -         -
subordinate personnel
7.6. Counsel personnel and resolve                                                                                  -         -         -
individual problems
7.7. Initiate action to correct sub-standard                                                                        -         -         -
performance by personnel
8. TRAINING
TR: AFIs 36-2101, 36-2201, AFMANs
36-2245, 36-2247, AFECD
8.1. Evaluate personnel to determine need                                                                           -         -         -
for training
8.2. Plan and supervise OJT
8.2.1. Prepare job qualification standards                                                                          -         -         -
(JQS)
8.2.2. Conduct training                                                                                             -         -         -
8.2.3. Counsel trainees on their progress                                                                           -         -         -
8.2.4. Monitor effectiveness of training
8.2.4.1. Career knowledge upgrade                                                                                   -         -         -
8.2.4.2. Job proficiency upgrade                                                                                    -         -         -
8.2.4.3. Qualification/Competency                                                                                   -         -         -
8.3. Maintain training records                                                                                      -         -         -
8.4. Evaluate effectiveness of training                                                                             -         -         -
programs
8.5. Recommend personnel for training                                                                               -         -         -




                                                        - 27 -
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2.      3. Certification For OJT                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                               Core                                                              To Indicate Training/
                                               Tasks                                                             Information Provided
                                               (*)
                                                          A            B         C          D           E           A         B         C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                  Level     Level     Level

                                                        Training    Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Course     OJT       OJT
                                                       Start Date   Complete
                                                                      Date     Initials   Initials   Initials


9. HISTOPATHOLOGY
LABORATORY ADMINISTRATION
TR: AFIs 44-102, 33-360V1, AMA
Physicians’ Current Procedural
Terminology, and NCCLS: Clinical
Laboratory Technical Procedure
Manuals(GP2-A3), Terminology and
Definitions for Use in NCCLS Documents
(NRSCL8-A), CHCS Instructor Training
Class Material, CAP Standards
(see Note 5)
9.1. Operate automated data systems
9.1.1. Composite Health Care System             *                                                                  A          -         -
(CHCS)
9.1.2. CoPath                                   *                                                                  A          -         -
9.2. Analyze workload reports                                                                                                 -         -
9.3. Quality control
9.3.1. Perform quality control                                                                                     2b         -         -
9.3.2. Quality control analysis                                                                                     -         -         -
9.4. Files Maintenance                                                                                              -         -         -
9.5. Use operating instructions (OIs)                                                                              2b         -         -

9.6. Develop OIs                                                                                                    -         -         -
10. RESERVED
11. HISTOTECHNOLOGY
TR(see Note 5)
11.1. Principles of histotechnology                                                                                A          -         -
11.2. Use equipment
11.2.1. Tissue processor                        *                                                                  2b         -         -
11.2.2. Microtome                               *                                                                  3c         -         -
11.2.3. Cryostat                                *                                                                  2b         -         -
11.2.4. Embedding                               *                                                                  2b         -         -
11.2.5. Bone Saws                               *                                                                  2b         -         -




                                                        - 28 -
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2.      3. Certification For OJT                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                               Core                                                              To Indicate Training/
                                               Tasks                                                             Information Provided
                                               (*)
                                                          A            B         C          D           E           A         B         C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                  Level     Level     Level

                                                        Training    Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Course     OJT       OJT
                                                       Start Date   Complete
                                                                      Date     Initials   Initials   Initials


11.2.6. Microscope                              *                                                                  2b         -         -
11.2.7. Balance                                 *                                                                  2b         -         -
11.2.8. Laboratory glassware                    *                                                                  2b         -         -
11.2.9. Surgical instruments                    *                                                                  2b         -         -
11.2.10. Pipettes                                                                                                  2b         -         -
11.2.11. Auto stainer                           *                                                                  2b         -         -
11.2.12. Cytocentrifuge                                                                                             -         -         -
11.2.13. Auto cover slipper                                                                                        2b         -         -
11.3. Medical terminology                                                                                          A          -         -
12. PERFORM
HISTOTECHNOLOGY
PROCEDURES
TR: (see Note 5)
12.1. Specimen accessioning                     *                                                                  2b         -         -
12.2. Surgical gross                            *                                                                  2b         -         -
12.3. Tissue processing                         *                                                                  2b         -         -
12.4. Embedding                                 *                                                                  2b         -         -
12.5. Microtomy                                 *                                                                  3c         -         -
12.6. Routine staining                          *                                                                  2b         -         -
12.7. Manual coverslipping                      *                                                                  2b         -         -
12.8. Labeling                                  *                                                                  2b         -         -
12.9. Filing                                    *                                                                  2b         -         -
12.10. Frozen sections                          *                                                                  2b         -         -
12.11. Decalcification                          *                                                                  2b         -         -
12.12. Fine needle aspirates                                                                                        -         -         -
12.13. Bone marrow aspirate                                                                                         -         -         -
13. HISTOLOGY
TR: (see Note 5)
13.1. Identify tissue macroscopically                                                                              A          -         -
13.2. Identify tissue microscopically                                                                              2b         -         -




                                                        - 29 -
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2.      3. Certification For OJT                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                               Core                                                              To Indicate Training/
                                               Tasks                                                             Information Provided
                                               (*)
                                                          A            B         C          D           E           A         B         C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                  Level     Level     Level

                                                        Training    Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Course     OJT       OJT
                                                       Start Date   Complete
                                                                      Date     Initials   Initials   Initials


14. PERFORM SPECIAL STAINS
TR: (see Note 5)
14.1. Connective tissue                         *                                                                  2b         -         -
14.2. Infectious agents                         *                                                                  2b         -         -
14.3. Nerve tissue                                                                                                 2b         -         -
14.4. Pigments and minerals                     *                                                                  2b         -         -
14.5. Polysaccharides                           *                                                                  2b         -         -
14.6. Frozen                                    *                                                                  2b         -         -
14.7. Cytological                                                                                                  A          -         -
14.8. Immunohistochemistry                                                                                         A          -         -
15. PERFORM MATHEMATICAL
COMPUTATIONS
TR: (see Note 5)
15.1. General chemical formulas                                                                                    2b         -         -
15.2. Percent solutions                         *                                                                  2b         -         -
15.3. Normal solutions                                                                                             2b         -         -
15.4. Molar solutions                                                                                              2b         -         -
15.5. Metric system                             *                                                                  2b         -         -
16. SPECIMEN SHIPMENT
TR: (see Note 5)
16.1. Toxicology specimens                      w                                                                  A          -         -
16.2. Microscopic slides                        *                                                                  A          -         -
16.3. Paraffin blocks                           *                                                                  A          -         -
16.4. Wet tissue                                                                                                   A          -         -
16.5. Cytology specimens                                                                                           A          -         -
17. AUTOPSY PROCEDURES
TR(see Note 5)
17.1. Prepare for post mortem                   *                                                                  2b         -         -
examination
17.2. Assist in the removal of body             *                                                                  2b         -         -
organs
17.3. Prepare body for release                  *                                                                  2b         -         -




                                                        - 30 -
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2.      3. Certification For OJT                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                Core                                                              To Indicate Training/
                                                Tasks                                                             Information Provided
                                                (*)
                                                           A            B         C          D           E           A         B         C
                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                   Level     Level     Level

                                                         Training    Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Course     OJT       OJT
                                                        Start Date   Complete
                                                                       Date     Initials   Initials   Initials


 17.4. Maintain morgue                           *                                                                  2b         -         -
 18. CARE AND MAINTENANCE OF
 THE LABORATORY
 TR(see Note 5)
 18.1. Sanitize                                  *                                                                  2b         -         -
 18.2. Decontaminate                             *                                                                  2b         -         -
 18.3. Hazardous materials/waste handling        *                                                                  2b         -         -
 18.4. Apply AFOSH safety precaustions           *                                                                  2b         -         -


Summary of changes: This is the inaugural electronic edition of the 4T0X2 Histopathology
CFETP. Editions of the 4T0X2 CFETP older than this version are obsolete and should not be
used.




                                                         - 31 -
                  TECHNICAL REFERENCE (TR) SOURCE SUMMARY
               FOR COMMERCIAL AND OTHER SERVICE PUBLICATIONS
                                 STS 4T0X2

Commercial Texts (all skill levels):



Theory and Practice of Histotechnology –2nd Edition – Sheehan/Hrapchak – C.V. Mosby Company –
   ISBN: 1-574770675 $52.50 (barnesandnoble.com)

Color Atlas of the Autopsy - Scott A. Wagner, Taylor & Francis Group - ISBN: 0849315204 - $178.06

Handbook of Autopsy Practice - Jurgen Ludwig, 3rd Edition, Humana Press - ISBN: 1588291693 - $149.50


Histotechnology – A Self-Instructional Text – 2nd Edition – Carson – American Society of Clinical Pathologist
    (ASCP) – ISBN:0-89189-411-X - $95.00 (Amazon.com)

Principles of Anatomy and Physiology – 8th Edition – Tortora/Grabowski – HarperCollins Publishers – ISBN: 0-
    673-99355-8 (Instructor): 0-673-99354-X (Student)

Post Mortem Technique - Michael T. Sheaff & Deborah Hopster, Springer, 2nd Edition - ISBN: 185233813X -
$129.00

Medical Terminology – A Self-Learning Text – 2nd Edition – Birmingham – C.V. Mosby Company – ISBN: 0-
   8016-0259-9

Basic Histology – 8th Edition – Junqueira/Carneiro/Kelley – Appleton & Lange – ISBN: 0-8385-0567-8

Functional Histology – A Text and Colour Atlas – 4th Edition – Churchill Livingstone – ISBN: 0-443-05612-9

AFIP Laboratory Methods in Histotechnology – American Registry of Pathology – ISBN: 1-881041-00-X - $35.00

Air Force Publications (all skill levels):
AFI 33-360, V1, Air Force Content Management Program – Publications
AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officers and Enlisted)
AFI 36-2103, Individualized Newcomer Treatment and Orientation (INTRO) Program
AFI 36-2201 V1-V3, Air Force Training Program
AFI 36-2306, The Education Services Program
AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems
AFI 36-2503, Administrative Demotion of Airmen
AFI 36-2907, Unfavorable Information File (UIF) Program
AFI 41-104, Professional Board and National Certification Examinations
AFI 41-106, Medical Readiness Planning and Training
AFI 44-102, Community Health Management
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health (AFOSH) Program




                                                       - 32 -
AFI 91-302, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire protection, Health (AFOSH) Standards
AFJI 48-124, Armed Forces Institute of Pathology and Armed Forces Histopathology Centers
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual
AFMAN 41-111, American Association of Blood Bankers Standards for Blood Banks and Transfusion Services
AFMAN 41-119, The Technical Manual of the American Association of Blood
AFOSH STD 91-8, Medical Facilities
AFPAM 36-2241, V1, Promotion Fitness Examination (PFE) Study Guide
AFPAM 36-2241, V2, USAF Supervisory Examination (USAFSE) Study Guide
AFPAM 36-2627, Airman and NCO Performance Feedback System (EES)
AFPD 41-1, Health Care Programs and Resources
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations
DoD 5500.7, Chap. 12, Sec. 3, 4, 5, & 6, Standards of Conduct




                                                     - 33 -
                            QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

Section B - Course Objective List

4. Resident Courses. If a written list of the course objectives is required, contact the
Histopathology Apprentice course training manager at DSN 736-4081 or write to the 382
TRS/TRR, 917 Missile Road, Ste 3, Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2263. A copy will be sent to you
as soon as possible.

5. Career Development Courses. Currently there are no Career Development Courses for this
AFSC.

Section C - Support Materials

6. Note: There are currently no support materials requirements. This area is reserved.

Section D - Training Course Index

7. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the specialty
and shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field training programs.

8. Air Force/DoD In-Resident Courses.

    COURSE NUMBER                   COURSE TITLE                      DEVELOPER

     JAABD4T032 00AB            Histopathology Apprentice        Armed Force Institute of
                                         Course                 Pathology, Washington DC,
                                                                  and Sheppard AFB, TX



NOTE: Additional training classes can be completed as continuing education classes, and are
     listed  on the Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA) website.



9. Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning (AFIADL) Courses. None.

10. Exportable Courses. None.

11. Courses Under Development/Revision. None.




                                             - 34 -
Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements. Training requirements for Air Reserve
Component 4T0X2 personnel will be identified and trained on an individual basis as specified by
the MAJCOM they are assigned to.

Section F - Documentation of Training

14. Development of a Work Center Training Plan. The focus of this training guidance is to
bring all training documentation back into one “OJT” record. Air Force Instruction 36-2201, Air
Force Training Program, authorizes Career Field Managers to bring training documentation
back into one “OJT” record, thus the creation of the Enlisted Training and Competency Folder.
The following information provides specific guidance, along with recommended documentation,
consistent with current Air Force instructions/directives. This training guidance is focused on
two main areas: (1) Developing a Master Training Plan, and, (2) Documentation of Training in
the Enlisted Training and Competency Folder.

15. Developing a Master Training Plan (MTP).

15.1. What Is It? A Master Training Plan is a reference guide developed for each section that
includes all facets of training for individuals assigned and ensures 100 percent task coverage. It
is to be used as a reference source for the type of training and training documentation that occurs
with each assigned member. The MTP is used to standardize training and to give trainers,
trainees, supervisors, NCOICs, and OICs an overview of the training process for the duty
section. The MTP is also used as a means to reduce the amount of paperwork previously
required during the training process. More information can be found in AFI 36-2201 Volume 3.

15.2. What's In It? Keep in mind that the Master Training Plan is an overview of training for
the duty section; it should include all documents involved in the training process for the duty
section. Training will vary from section to section and person to person, but there are certain
documents that will be a standard requirement for all MTPs. The documents are as follows:

15.2.1. Master Task List.

15.2.2. Current CFETP or AFJQS.

15.2.3. Locally developed AF Form 797, Job Qualification Standard Continuation Sheet (if
applicable).

15.2.4. Milestones for tasks completion with the projected timeframe the trainee will complete
core tasks.

16. Documentation of Training: The Enlisted Training and Competency Folder.

16.1. The purpose of this section is to provide guidelines and examples of proper documentation
for the many forms used in training 4T0X2 personnel. Training documentation helps us to
assess readiness capability, individual strengths and weaknesses, and resources needed to
support quality patient care. It also helps us meet JCAHO and regulatory requirements. The



                                              - 35 -
Enlisted Training and Competency Folder is limited to the forms presented here and those
prescribed in AFI 36-2201. Your unit education and training manager can also assist you with
specific questions on training documentation.

16.2. Documents included in the 4T0X2 Enlisted Training and Competency Folder.

16.2.1. To assemble a 4T0X2 training record, utilize a standard six-part folder. Each members
six-part folder must be configured in the following manner NLT 30 Jun 04. For deployed
individuals the 6-part enlisted training folder is reconfigured to the standardized format, as
shown in Figure 1, within 90 days of redeployment.

16.2.2. Attach, centered on the front cover, a computer generated or typewritten title “Enlisted
Training and Competency Folder.” In addition, include the member’s full name (last, first, MI),
rank, and SSAN.(last four is acceptable.) On the bottom of the label. This label is placed in the
center of the folder as viewed in portrait orientation. AFVA 250-14, privacy act statement is
centered on the bottom half of the folder.

16.2.3. The six parts of the folder are discussed in detail in the following paragraphs. Each part
will contain specific documents that should be filed in descending order (see Figure 1). Index
tabs/tabbed dividers may be used in parts that contain multiple documents. When multiple
copies of any form are placed into the Enlisted Training and Competency Folder, they are placed
in chronological order with the most current documentation on top.

STANDARDIZED ENLISTED TRAINING AND COMPETENCY FOLDER
Doe, Jane
TSgt 000-00-0000
PART 1                         PART 3                                                    PART 5
- AF Form 55 – Safety Training Section A:                                                - AF Form 2096 or MilPDS Product
                               - AF Form 1098 Mandatory                                    Reflecting Upgrade
                                 Training/In-service Documentation
                               Section B:
                               - AF Form 1098 QTP Documentation
                               Section C:
                               - AF Form 1098 RSV Documentation
                                 (Use of printable form from RSV website is permitted)
PART 2                           PART 4                                                  PART 6
Section A:                       Section A:                                              Section A:
- AF Form 623B                   - AF Form 623A                                          - Continuing Education
Section B:                       Section B:                                              Section B:
- CFETP                          - AETC Form 156                                         - Certificates Required by the Career
Section C:                       (Remove after 5-level upgrade)                            Field Manager
- AF Form 797                    - CDC Score Cards                                       (i.e. duty related)
                                 Section C:                                              Section C:
                                 - AF FORM 803                                           - Career Field Directed Documents
                                 (Remove after upgraded or no longer applicable. Not
                                 required by the 4T0XX career field)
      Figure 1: Organization of the 4T0X2 Enlisted Training and Competency Folder
16.2.3.1. Part 1 (first two-pronged section).

16.2.3.1.1. AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record. Regardless of grade or training
status, AF Form 55 for the member is maintained in Part 1. AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational
and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health (AFOSH) Program authorizes



                                                        - 36 -
supervisors to file the AF Form 55 with the AF Form 623, The Individual Training Record. If
local policy is to keep all employee AF Form 55s in a general safety training folder, insert a page
indicating that location.
16.2.3.2. Part 2 (second two-pronged section).

16.2.3.2.1. Section A - AF Form 623, The Individual Training Record (front and inside
cover). Attach the front and inside cover (containing Sections I through IV) of the member’s
current AF Form 623 onto Part 2 of the 6-part folder. All appropriate areas of AF Form 623
must be properly completed. The AF Form 623 is the document that is recognized by the
personnel system in contingencies and deployments as the official formal training record. If
available, AF Form 623B will be used in lieu of AF Form 623.

NOTE: Maintenance of AF Form 623 is mandatory for Airmen in the ranks Airmen Basic
through Technical Sergeant. In addition, AF Form 623 is required for SNCOs, regardless
of their rank, in retraining status or as directed by the Air Force career field manager,
commanders, or supervisors.

16.2.3.2.2. Section B - Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). The specialty
training standard (STS) contained within the CFETP will be used to record training proficiency
in various tasks that are required for an individual to perform duties in a specific work area. A
master task listing for the work center is maintained in the MTP for the duty section. Circle only
those tasks that the individual is required to perform in his/her current duty position.

NOTE: In an effort to reduce local CFETP printing costs, the following options are authorized:
keep at least one copy of the entire CFETP (part 1 and 2) in the work center for general access
and master training plan development. Unless otherwise directed by the AFCFM, file only part
2 of the CFETP in the AF Form 623, OJT Record. Additionally, if the CFETP is divided into
distinct sections (by aircraft, duty positions, missions, etc.) then file only the section applicable
to the individual, such as the current/past qualifications, and current upgrade/duty position
training requirements. Keep the used sections intact, regardless of the degree of use. As
duty/training requirements change, insert applicable CFETP sections in the prescribed numerical
order.

16.2.3.2.3. Section C - AF Form 797, Job Qualification Standard Continuation/Command
JQS. This form is used to document training on additional items, required for the members
current duty position, that are not listed in the CFETP Part II or AFJQS per AFMAN 36-2247,
para 5.2. Figure 2 is an example of how to document training on an AF Form 797.




                                                - 37 -
                                       JOB QUALIFICATION STANDARD CONTINUATION/COMMAND JQS
                                                                                                                    CERTIFICATION




                                                                                  CORE TASK




                                                                                                                                                     CERTIFYING
                                                                                                         COMPLETE


                                                                                                                      TRAINEE’’S




                                                                                                                                                     OFFICIAL’S
                                                                                                                                        TRAINER’S
                                                                                                                       INITIALS


                                                                                                                                         INITIALS




                                                                                                                                                      INITIALS
                                                                                                START
                                                                                                DATE


                                                                                                           DATE
              TASK, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL REFERENCES


1. Operates and maintains H25oo microwave processor,
   TR: Control Manual, SGQH OI 44-HS-03
2. Operates and maintains the Puseform 2100 (formalin recycler),
   TR: SGQH OI 44-H-28
3. Perform grossing of tissue by non-pathologist duties,
   TR: SGQH OI 44-H-08
TRAINEE NAME (Last, First, MI)                                                    CFETP/JQS NUMBER                                      PAGE NO
                                                                                  4T0X2
Wellborn, Brian T.
AF FORM 797 19990201 (EF-V2)
                                   Figure 2: Sample AF Form 797 Documentation
16.2.3.3. Part 3 (third two-pronged section).

16.2.3.3.1. AF Form 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training. This part will
contain three separate sections for the documentation of specific training. Use these forms to
document qualification in tasks that require recurring training. Also use them to document in-
service and mandatory training. An AF Form 1098 will be created and clearly marked for each
type of training documentation required. Ensure signatures and initials are included per AFI 36-
2201.

16.2.3.3.1.1. Section A - Documentation of mandatory training/In-services (see Figure 3).
Examples are BLS training, patient sensitivity training, and other mandated training as stipulated
by JCAHO standards, Air Force, or MTF directives. Mandatory training requirements may vary
by MTF. These requirements should be reviewed on an annual basis and updated as required.
Document all completed continuing education or in-service training (Figure 4).

                 SPECIAL TASK CERTIFICATION AND RECURRING TRAINING
 TASK OR RECURRING                   DATE          SIGNATURE OF        INITIALS                     EVALUATION OF TRAINING
    TRAINING AND                   COMPLETED        CERTIFYING            OF                  SCORE      TYPE         FREQUENCY                     DUE
     TECHNICAL                                        OFFICIAL         TRAINEE                  OR                                                  DATE
     REFERENCES                                                                               HOURS

               A.                         B.             C.               D.                   E.          F.                      G.                  H.

BLSTraining                            5 Nov 04                                                 P                     Biennial                      5 Nov 05


FireandSafetyTraining                   4 Feb04                                                 P                     Annual                        4 Feb 05


HazardCommunication                     3Jan 04                                                 P                     Annual                        3Jan 05


CustomerServiceTraining                10Sept 04                                                P                Annual                             10 Sept 05
NAMEOFTRAINEE(Last,First,MiddleInitial)                                  GRADE                       UNITANDOFFICESYMBOL
Myers,Lisa M.                                                            SrA                         375MDSS//SGQC
AF FORM 1098, 19850401 (EF-V2)

          Figure 3: Sample AF Form 1098, Mandatory recurring training documentation



                                                              - 38 -
                 SPECIAL TASK CERTIFICATION AND RECURRING TRAINING
  TASK OR RECURRING              DATE           SIGNATURE OF       INITIALS             EVALUATIONOFTRAINING
     TRAINING AND              COMPLETED         CERTIFYING           OF
      TECHNICAL                                    OFFICIAL        TRAINEE                TYPE   FREQUENCY     DUE
      REFERENCES                                                                                               DATE
            A.                     B.                C.               D.                   F.        G.         H.
Whole Mount Prostate       5 No v 04                                          3 Hours
Hazardous Waste            15 Dec 03                                          2 Hours
Management
NAME OF TRAINEE (Last, First, Middle Initial)                        GRADE          UNIT AND OFFICE SYMBOL
Lattany, Charles A..                                                 TSgt           375 MDTS/SGQHS
AF FORM 1098, 19850401 (EF-V2)
               Figure 4: Sample In-service Training Documentation

16.2.3.3.1.2. Section B - Qualification Training Packages (QTPs). This section will be used
to document ongoing completion of QTPs. NOTE: There are currently no QTPs for the 4T0X2
AFSC. If QTPs are developed, an erratum to this CFETP will be issued with instructions on
proper documentation.

16.2.3.3.1.3. Section C - Readiness Skills Verification Documentation. Record 4T0XX
career field specific training. NOTE: Currently the 4T0X2 career field does not require RSV
training

16.2.3.4. Part 4 (fourth two-pronged section).

16.2.3.4.1. Section A - AF Form 623A, On-The-Job Training Record Continuation Sheet.
This form will be utilized to document all progress of individual training to include facility
orientation, section specific orientation, upgrade training (UGT), any additional pertinent
training, all decertification procedures, and supervisor/trainer/certifier periodic review. The
entire training process must be well documented on these forms. All individuals involved in the
training process must document training progress as it occurs, i.e., the supervisor and/or trainer
and the trainee must sign and date all entries. Upgrade training status will be reviewed and
documented at least monthly.

16.2.3.4.1.1. Facility orientation. Include a statement on the AF Form 623A that verifies
facility orientation requirements were met and include signatures of both the supervisor and
orientee. A master copy of the facility orientation checklist will be maintained in the MTP for
the duty section. Anytime there is a reference on the AF Form 623A to an orientation checklist,
you must indicate the name and date of the checklist. Do not maintain copies of checklists in the
OJT record.

16.2.3.4.1.2. Unit-specific orientation. The unit-specific orientation is essential for all assigned
members. Documentation of the orientation process must be thorough. The trainer will use the
master copy of the unit-specific orientation checklist located in the MTP. Each item on the




                                                          - 39 -
checklist must be covered, to ensure standardization of training, and documented on AF Form
623A. An overprint AF Form 623A is recommended to ensure the suggested comments are
annotated, the following are examples of minimal overprinted information to be included (see
Figure 5).

16.2.3.4.1.2.1. Orientee and trainer name/rank/unit assignment.

16.2.3.4.1.2.2. Orientation start date with initial interview comments (i.e. goals, desires,
concerns related to the orientation process, etc.). Identify name and date of the orientation
checklist.

16.2.3.4.1.2.3. Mid-orientation progress check to evaluate training effectiveness. Signed and
dated by both the trainer and orientee.

16.2.3.4.1.2.4. Final evaluation of orientation process with statement that verifies orientee’s
unit-specific competency has been achieved. Signed and dated by the trainer/supervisor, and
orientee. Identify name and date of the orientation checklist.

                                    ON-THE-JOB TRAINING RECORD
                                              CONTINUATION SHEET

1 Sept 04
A1C Wellborn was assigned to the Histopathology section on 30 Aug 04. TSgt Trainer has been assigned as a trainer for
him. He will orient A1C Wellborn to the unit using the Histopathology Orientation Checklist, dated 1 Jun 04, located in
the Master Training Plan (MTP). An initial interview was accomplished on this date.
_______________                                                 ___________________
A1C Wellborn                                                    MSgt Gibbins
Histopathology                                                  NCOIC, Histopathology

16 Sept 04
A mid-orientation progress check was accomplished on this date. A1C Wellborn has progressed through the
Histopathology Orientation Checklist with little or no difficulty, and he has completed his review of the Histopathology
OIs.
A1C Wellborn is scheduled to complete his orientation NLT 12 Oct 04.
_______________                                                     __________________
A1C Wellborn                                                        TSgt Trainer
Histopathology                                                      Histopathology

10 Oct 04
A1C Wellborn has completed all training on the Histopathology Orientation Checklist. A review of the checklist with
him indicates he was knowledgeable of all items discussed and ready to perform his duties in the Histopathology section.
A review of his STS has also been performed making sure his current duty position is properly annotated in Column 1
per MTP guidance.
_______________                                                  __________________
A1C Wellborn                                                     MSgt Gibbins
Histopathology                                                   NCOIC, Histopathology

LAST NAME – FIRST NAME – MIDDLE INITIAL
Wellborn, Brian T.
AF Form 623A, 19790301 (EF-V2)

                              Figure 5: Sample Orientation Documentation




                                                          - 40 -
16.2.3.4.1.3. Upgrade Training (5-7-9-skill levels).

16.2.3.4.1.3.1. Document entry into upgrade training and periodic (at least monthly) evaluations
of training progress (see Figure 6).

16.2.3.4.1.3.2. Information on extensions, waiver requests, or breaks in training should also be
clearly documented on AF Form 623A with copies of any related correspondence.
16.2.3.4.1.3.3. Any further training pertinent to the duty section and or unit effectiveness can
also be documented on the AF Form 623A (i.e., job qualifications).

16.2.3.4.1.3.4. Document any decertification proceedings, to include dates, reasons for
decertification, and other applicable information on the AF Form 623A.

16.2.3.4.1.3.5. Once an individual completes upgrade training commensurate to his/her rank and
maintains an appropriate skill level, their supervisor should continue to review requirements,
progress, and individual training needs. The six-part folder will be reviewed at least annually to
ensure documentation currency and appropriateness.

                                    ON-THE-JOB TRAINING RECORD
                                        CONTINUATION SHEET
________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_
                                 INITIAL UPGRADE TRAINING BRIEFING

A1C Lattany has been briefed on the On-The-Job-Training (OJT) Program and how he fits into the program while in 5-
skill level upgrade training (UGT). UGT was explained as a dual-channel process designed to qualify an airman for skill
level upgrade. Dual-channel OJT is a systematic reportable application of self-study and the craftsman/apprentice
principle. Trainees acquire job qualification while performing on the job under supervision. This combination of
knowledge and job position qualification constitutes the dual-channel concept. Requirements from AFIs 36-2101 and 36-
2201, and AFMAN 36-2108 were covered. AF Forms 623B, 623A, 797, 1098, 2096, and the CFETP were explained.
Responsibilities of the commander, base training, unit training manager (UTM), immediate supervisor, trainer, and
trainee were discussed. Requirements for 5-skill level upgrade in AFSC 4T0X2 are: (1) completion of a minimum of 15
months in UGT, (2) complete all core tasks specified in Column 2 of the STS, (3) complete all STS tasks for assigned duty
position, (4) complete SME approved 5-skill level upgrade training plan, and (5) supervisor recommendation for upgrade.
The STS portion of the CFETP is annotated to show only those tasks he is required to perform in his current duty
position, all AFMAN 36-2108 mandatory requirements for upgrade, and core task requirements. In the STS, the trainer,
trainee, and certifier (when required) have a space to initial when training is completed. After upgrade the STS will
continue to be used to document further qualification training.



__________________________                 __________________________             _____________
SUPERVISOR’S SIGNATURE                      TRAINEE’S SIGNATURE                    DATE
LAST NAME – FIRST NAME – MIDDLE INITIAL
Lattany Charles A.
AF Form 623A, 19790301 (EF-V2)
                 Figure 6: Sample Initial Upgrade Training Briefing

16.2.3.4.1.4. The Job Description/Performance Standards for each duty position should be
maintained in the MTP in each duty section. An AF Form 623A overprint may be used to
document both supervisor/subordinate reviews (see Figure 7). This form will be maintained in




                                                         - 41 -
Part 4 of the OJT Record. The following statements will be jointly reviewed by the supervisor
and subordinate:

16.2.3.4.1.4.1. “I know where to find a current copy of my Job Description/Performance
Standards.”

16.2.3.4.1.4.2. “I have read, discussed with my supervisor, and understand my Job Description/
Performance Standards.” **

16.2.3.4.1.4.3. “I understand my duties and responsibilities for the position that I currently
hold.”**
16.2.3.4.1.4.4. “If I have questions or concerns about my Job Description/Performance
Standards, I will seek assistance from supervisory personnel in my chain of command.”

16.2.3.4.1.4.5. “It is my responsibility to review my Job Description/Performance Standards
with my supervisor annually and with each change in supervisor/duty position.”**

16.2.3.4.1.4.6. A signature and date block for both the supervisor and subordinate will reflect
mutual understanding of these statements. It is recommended that several signature and date
spaces for the continual review process be included.

Note: ** Indicates requirement according to Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare
Organizations (JCAHO).
                           ON–THE–JOB TRAINING RECORD
                                                CONTINUATION SHEET
4 Sept 04
1. I know where to find a current copy of my Job Description/Performance Standards. I have read, discussed with my
supervisor and understand my Job Description/Performance Standards. I understand my duties and responsibilities for
the position that I am currently working in. If I have questions or concerns about my Job Description/Performance
Standards, I will seek assistance from supervisory personnel in my chain of command.
2. It is my responsibility to review my Job Description/Performance Standards with my supervisor during each feedback
session and with each change in supervisor or duty position.

__________________________
Lisa Myers, SSgt, USAF
Histopathology
4 Sept 04


4 Sept 04
SSgt Myers has completed her review of her Job Description/Performance Standards on this date. I am confident that
she is thoroughly familiar with standards and expectations. At this time SSgt Myers has no questions or concerns.

_________________________________
Charles A. Lattany, MSgt, USAF
NCOIC, Histopathology
4 Sept 04
LAST NAME – FIRST NAME – MIDDLE INITIAL
Myers, Lisa M.
AF FORM 623A 19790301 (EF-V2)
         Figure 7: Sample Job Description/Performance Standards Review




                                                       - 42 -
16.2.3.4.2. Section B – AETC Form 156 and CDC Score Cards.

16.2.3.4.2.1. AETC Form 156. Maintain in six-part folder until 5-level skill upgrade is
complete. The instructor staff at the Histopathology Apprentice Course will forward the
completed AF Form 156 to the graduates gaining base upon completion of the course.

16.2.3.4.2.2. CDC Score Cards. Maintain CDC Score Cards in this section. Currently the
4T0X2 career field has no CDC requirements.
16.2.3.4.3. Section C – AF Form 803 Report of Task Evaluations. This optional form may be
removed when no longer applicable or after the trainee is upgraded.

16.2.3.5. Part 5 (fifth two-pronged section).

16.2.3.5.1. AF Form 2096, Classification On-The-Job Training Action or MilPDS Product
Reflecting Upgrade. This form will be used to document official training actions [i.e., award of
skill level, training status changes, decertifications, and award of special experience identifiers
(SEIs)].

Note: A MilPDS automated document may be substituted for AF Form 2096.

16.2.3.6. Part 6 (sixth two-pronged section).

16.2.3.6.1. Section A – Continuing Education. This section will contain copies of Continuing
Education documentation as applicable to the member’s AFSC or current duty position.

16.2.3.6.2. Section B – Certificates Required by the Career Field Manager. This section
will contain documents (i.e. duty related certifications) as requested by the 4T0XX CFM and are
maintained in this section until rescinded or superseded by the 4T0XX CFM.

16.2.3.6.3. Section C – Career Field Documents. This section will contain copies of Career
Field Required Certificates as applicable to the member’s AFSC or current duty position to
include, but not limited to, certification information and related certificates. The intent is to have
the information correlate to the 4T0X2 career field or the trainee’s current duties.

16.3. Supplemental AFSC-specific documentation instructions. The AFCFM is authorized
to supplement or revise the general guidance contained in section F of the CFETP to ensure the
documents maintained in the 6-part folder accurately reflect the needs of their AFSC/Medical
specialties.

Part 2: Managing Training

17. Purpose.

17.1. The entire process of managing an effective training program centers on the supervisor.




                                                - 43 -
 17.2. Each supervisor must maintain accurate records that give a complete picture of the status
 of all training that they are responsible, as a supervisor, to oversee.

 18. Monthly Training Checklist for Supervisors.

 18.1. Using a checklist can assist the supervisor in managing an effective training program.

 18.2. Figure 8 is a sample monthly training checklist for supervisors to use, if they choose,
 when managing training. The checklist is designed to address areas that apply to any/all
 trainee’s that are placed under the supervision of the supervisor. The sample may be altered as
 needed to reflect the items deemed important for monitoring on a monthly basis.

                    Figure 8: Monthly Training Checklist for Supervisors
            MONTHLY TRAINING CHECKLIST FOR SUPERVISORS
REQUIREMENT                                                                             INITIALS
APPOINTMENTS
Notify those who have been scheduled for ancillary training, quality training,
appointments, etc.
NEW AIRMEN
Conduct initial evaluation of knowledge and skills.
Document initial evaluation on AF Form 623A.
AF FORM 623B
Review cover of AF Form 623B. Make any necessary changes.
Note any open training requirements and ensure training is accomplished or scheduled
on each. (Work with the trainer on this. Remember...it is the supervisor’s
responsibility to ensure training is being conducted).
Certify or decertify qualifications when applicable. Be sure to change the MTL.
Documents visits, counselings, etc. on AF Form 623A.
Documents progress, visits, counselings, etc. on AF Form 623A.
FORMAL SCHOOLS
For individuals requiring formal schools, ensure they have planned accordingly ahead
of time.
Ensure formal school prerequisite requirements are met when applicable.
TRAINERS AND CERTIFIERS
Ensure trainers and certifiers have attended appropriate trainer/certifier courses.
SUPERVISORS MEETINGS
Attend all supervisors meetings conducted by the Unit Training Manager. (Send
representative if unable to attend personally).
UPGRADE TRAINEES
Notify the Unit Training Manager of any individuals who have been signed off on all
training items, have met time requirements, or completed formal schools when
applicable.
OTHER




                                               - 44 -
