DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                          CFETP 2A3X3
Headquarters US Air Force                                                              Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                            1 August 2012




                     AFSC 2A3X3
                TACTICAL AIRCRAFT
                MAINTENANCE (LEGACY)
                     SPECIALTY




               CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
                 AND TRAINING PLAN

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
SUMMARY OF CHANGES. This publication has been substantially revised and must be reviewed in
its entirety. Due to an AFSC restructure, the STSs for the following airframes have been removed from
this CFETP: F-22, MQ-1, MQ-9, and RQ-4. See CFETPs 2A3X7 for the F-22/F-35 requirements and
2A3X8 for the remotely piloted aircraft requirements. As a result of the February 2012 U&TW, the
STSs contained in this CFETP have significant changes in layout, core tasks, and proficiency codes.




                                                  i                                     Attachment 1
                    CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
          TACTICAL AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE (LEGACY) SPECIALTY CREW CHIEF
                                   AFSC 2A3X3


                                                                  Table of Contents
PART I                                                                                                                                                   Page

Preface ...........................................................................................................................................................1

Abbreviations/Terms Explained .................................................................................................................2

Section A--General Information .................................................................................................................3
   Purpose of the CFETP
   Use of the CFETP
   Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B--Career Field Progression and Information.............................................................................4
   Specialty Description
   Skill and Career Progression
       Apprentice Level (3)
       Journeyman Level (5)
       Craftsman Level (7)
       Superintendent Level (9)
       Training Decisions
   Higher Education and Advanced Certification Opportunities (CCAF, etc)
   Career Field Path
   Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist

Section C—Skill-Level Training Requirements........................................................................................11
   Purpose
   Special Qualification Requirements
       Apprentice Level (3)
       Journeyman Level (5)
       Craftsman Level (7)
       Superintendent Level (9)

Section D--Resource Constraints ................................................................................................................14

Section E--Transitional Training Guide ....................................................................................................14




                                                                               ii
PART II

Section A--Specialty Training Standard (STS) .........................................................................................15

Section B--Course Objective List ...............................................................................................................16

Section C--Support Material .......................................................................................................................17

Section D--Training Course Index .............................................................................................................17

Section E--MAJCOM Unique Requirements ............................................................................................20

STS Attachments

1. Proficiency Code Key .............................................................................................................................21

2. Common Aircraft Qualitative Requirements .......................................................................................23

3. A-10 Qualitative Requirements .............................................................................................................37

4. U-2 Qualitative Requirements ...............................................................................................................47

5. F-15 Qualitative Requirements ..............................................................................................................63

6. F-16 Qualitative Requirements ..............................................................................................................79

A. Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman Qualitative Requirements ........................................................93

B. 2A3X3 Course Objective Training Matrix ..........................................................................................97




Supersedes: CFETP 2A3X3, 28 Oct 2011

OPR: 362 TRS/TRR
Certified by: Mrs. Janet Ford (362 TRS/TRR)
Approved By: CMSgt Mark Kovalcik (HQ USAF/A4LF)
Number of Printed Pages: 109


                                                                        iii
                CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
      TACTICAL AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE (LEGACY) SPECIALTY CREW CHIEF
                             AFSC 2A3X3E/L/M

PART I

PREFACE

1. Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). This CFETP is a comprehensive education
and training document that identifies life-cycle education and training requirements, training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for 2A3X3, Tactical Aircraft Maintenance (Legacy)
Specialty. The CFETP will provide personnel a clear career path to success and instills rigor in all
aspects of career field training. This CFETP supersedes 2A3X3 CFETP published 28 October 2011.
Information is available at AF/A4LF web page:
https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-LG-AF-35

NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty position qualification
training.

2. CFETP Parts. The CFETP consists of two parts. Supervisors will use both parts to plan, manage,
and control training. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty
receive effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan will enable us to
train today‟s work force for tomorrow‟s jobs.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A explains
how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression information, duties and
responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C associates each level with specialty
qualifications (knowledge, education, experience, training, and other). Section D indicates resource
constraints to accomplishing this plan, such as funds, manpower, equipment, and facilities. Section E
identifies transition training guide requirements for SSgt through MSgt.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and
includes duties, tasks, technical references to support training, Air Education and Training Command
(AETC) conducted training, wartime course/core task, and correspondence course requirements.
Section B contains the course objective list and training standards supervisors will use to determine if
airmen have satisfied training requirements. Section C identifies available support materials, such as
Qualification Training Package (QTP), which may be developed to support proficiency training.
Section D identifies a training course index that supervisors can use to determine if resources are
available to support training. Included here are both mandatory and optional courses. Section E
identifies MAJCOM unique training requirements supervisors can use to determine additional training
required for the associated qualification needs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II to
identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.




                                                      1
ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training. Formal course, which provides individuals who are qualified in their Air Force
Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance their expertise in the career field. Training
is for selected career airmen at the advanced level of an AFS.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a particular
job type or duty position. Supervisors use the AFJQS to document task qualifications. The AFJQS tasks
are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive, multipurpose
document covering the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field. It outlines a logical
growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career field training identifiable,
eliminate duplication, and ensure this training is budget defensible.

Certification. A formal indication of an individual‟s ability to perform a task to required standards.

Certification Official. A person authorized by appropriate commander to determine an individual‟s
ability to perform a task to required standards.

Continuation Training. This is additional training that exceeds minimum upgrade requirements and
has an emphasis on present or future duty assignments.

Core Task. Tasks that the Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) identifies as minimum
qualification requirements within an Air Force Specialty. Only a percentage of critical tasks for each
system are listed as mandatory core tasks. This gives units needed flexibility to manage their workforce
training. Core tasks identified with */R are optional for ANG and AFRC.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal AETC training and On-The-Job (OJT) training
designed to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video or other
necessary means to supplement training.

Go/No Go Level. In OJT, the stage at which an individual has gained enough skill, knowledge and
experience to either be qualified to perform an identified task without error or cannot perform the task
without error.

Initial Skills Training. A formal school course that results in the award of a 3-skill level AFSC.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training at the duty location used to certify
personnel for both skill level upgrade and duty position qualification.

Proficiency Training. Additional training either in residence or exportable advanced training courses,
or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum
required for upgrade.



                                                    2
Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies such as money, facilities, time, manpower, or equipment
that preclude desired training from being accomplished.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force document that is published as an attachment to the
appropriate CFETP that describes an Air Force Specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge an airman
may be expected to perform or to know on the job. It serves as a contract between AETC and the
functional user to show which of the overall training requirements for an AFSC are taught in formal
schools, Career Development Courses (CDC), and exportable courses.

Supplemental Training. Formal, standardized training within an AFS that is in addition to required
initial skills training and skill level upgrade training. It may support new/newly assigned equipment,
methods, and/or technology.

Task Certifier. See Certification Official

Upgrade Training (UGT). A mixture of mandatory courses, task qualification, QTPs, and CDCs
required for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, or 9-skill levels.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum that is convened and chaired on a recurring
basis by the AFCFM, designed to review the appropriate CFETP and its attachments. The purpose is to
ensure currency, accuracy and completeness of content, to include specific formal career ladder training
requirements. Workshops are co-chaired by AETC Training Pipeline Manager and include MAJCOM
Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) Functional Managers, AETC training personnel and Subject Matter
Experts (SMEs).

SECTION A - GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Purpose of the CFETP. This CFETP provides the information necessary for the AFCFM,
MAJCOM functional managers (MFMs), commanders, training managers, supervisors and trainers to
plan, develop, manage and conduct an effective and efficient career field training program. This plan
outlines the training that individuals in AFSC 2A3X3E/L/M should receive in order to develop and
progress throughout their career. This CFETP identifies initial skill, upgrade, qualification, advanced,
and proficiency training. Initial skills training is the AFS specific training an individual receives upon
entry into the Air Force or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. This training
is conducted at various locations by AETC. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task
qualification requirements, and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 3-, 5-,
7- and 9-skill levels. Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to
qualify an airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the
upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills and knowledge required to do
the job. Advanced training is formal specialty training used for selected airmen. Proficiency training is
additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training courses, or on-the-job training,
provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade.
The CFETP has several purposes:




                                                      3
1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field-training
program. Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an individual‟s
career.

1.2. Identifies tasks and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education and training throughout each phase of an individual's career.

1.3. Lists training courses that are available in the specialty and identifies sources of training and the
training delivery method.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints which impact full implementation of the desired career field
training process.

2. Use of the CFETP. This plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure
comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop or revise formal resident, non-resident, field, and exportable
training based upon requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of the CFETP.
They will also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining the resources
needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial, upgrade, and
proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, contract training, or exportable courses can satisfy
these identified requirements. MAJCOM-developed training, to support this AFSC, must be identified
for inclusion in this plan and must not duplicate other available training resources.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan. The list
of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP. The AFCFM is the approval authority for the CFETP
The AFCFM for AFSC 2A3X3 will initiate an annual review of this document to ensure currency and
accuracy. The using MAJCOM representatives and AETC training personnel will identify and
coordinate on the career field training requirements. Using the list of courses in Part II, they will
eliminate duplicate training.

SECTION B - CAREER PROGRESSION INFORMATION

1. Specialty Description:

1.1. Specialty Summary. Maintains aircraft, support equipment, forms, and records. Performs and
supervises flight chief, expediter, crew chief, repair and reclamation, quality assurance, and maintenance
support functions. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup:160000.

1.2. Duties and Responsibilities. Refer to Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD) Parts I
and II located on the Air Force Personnel Services page in the Air Force Portal.




                                                      4
Use the following address to access the AFECD: https://gum-
crm.csd.disa.mil/app/answers/detail/a_id/7504/kw/afecd/r_id/100169 or use the following instructions to access the
AFECD: Enter the Air Force Portal, in the search box enter “AFECD” and when results are displayed,
click-on “AFECD - Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory” and log-in.

2. Skill and Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to the
superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force's ability to accomplish its mission. It is
essential that everyone involved in training do their part to plan, develop, manage and conduct an
effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will ensure each individual
receives viable training at appropriate points in their career. Use table 5.1 Enlisted Career Path in
conjunction with information below to manage career field skill progression.

2.1. Apprentice (3) Level. Upon completion of initial skills training, a trainee will work with a trainer
to enhance their knowledge and skills. They will utilize the CDC, task qualification training, and
available exportable courses for continued advancement. Once task certified, a trainee may perform the
task unsupervised. The 1-and 3-skill levels are assigned shred identifiers for initial-skills course
scheduling and assignment purposes. Shred identifiers and SEI codes are provided in the AFECD.

2.2. Journeyman (5) Level. Individuals must complete formal 5-level OJT training. This training
involves completion of CDC 2AX5X, as well as completion of all identified core task qualification
training requirements. Available proficiency/supplementary training should be completed as early as
duty permits. Five-levels are assigned shred identifiers for scheduling and assignment purposes, and
may be assigned job positions such as quality assurance and various staff positions. Five-levels will be
considered for appointment as unit trainers. Individuals will use their CDCs to prepare for testing under
the Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS). They should continue their education toward an
associate‟s or higher educational degree from the Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) or other
accredited institution.

2.3. Craftsman (7) Level. Individuals must complete formal 7-level OJT. This training involves
completion of CDC 2AX7X as well as completion of all identified core task qualification training
requirements. Available proficiency/supplementary training should be completed as early as duty
permits. A craftsman can expect to fill various supervisory and management positions such as shift
leader, element NCOIC, flight/section chief, and task certifier. They can also be assigned to work in
staff positions. They should continue their education toward an associate‟s or higher educational degree
from the Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) or other accredited institution. Once promoted
to TSgt, the shred identifier drops from the control AFSC (CAFSC) and the individual can be assigned
to other legacy fighter aircraft.

2.4. Superintendent (9) Level. Individuals promoted to SMSgt must attend the Senior
Noncommissioned Officer Academy. Additional training in the areas of budget, manpower, resources,
and personnel management should be pursued through continuing education. Completion of college
courses in the pursuit of a higher-level educational degree is also recommended. Once promoted to
SMSgt, an individual can be assigned to any legacy, 5th generation, or remotely piloted aircraft unit.




                                                        5
3. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to encompass
the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Tactical Aircraft Maintenance (2A3X3, Legacy)
career field. The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet these training
requirements. The strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce duplication of training and
eliminate a disjointed approach to training. The following training decisions were made by MAJCOM
Functional Managers and Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) at the career field Utilization and Training
Workshop (U&TW) held February 2012 at Sheppard AFB.

3.1. Initial Skills. Significant changes were made to initial skills training. The 2A3X3 and 2A5X1
fundamental courses will be merged to provide a single initial skills course for all crew chiefs. Planned
implementation is 1 August 2012. Additional fundamental requirements that are applicable to all
airframes were added to meet the prerequisites for students entering the F-35 integrated training center.
Several STS line items not applicable to all mission design series (MDSs) were identified for inclusion
in the MDS specific STS attachments and proficiency codes were assigned.

3.2. Five-Level Upgrade Requirements. Significant changes were made to 5-level upgrade
requirements. The U&TW members agreed to delete MDS specific information that is currently in the
2A353 CDC and bring the course in compliance with AFI 36-2201, para 6.10.1.

3.3. Seven-Level Upgrade Requirements. New SSgts will complete the 2AX7X CDC, and FTDs will
provide advanced aircraft system training. The group believed it was impractical to teach system theory
and troubleshooting via a career development course or computer-based training (CBT).

3.4. Proficiency/Continuation Training (see pg 2/3). Additional knowledge and skill requirements,
which are not taught through initial skills or upgrade training, are accomplished by unit training or Field
Training Detachments (FTD). The purpose of continuation training is to provide additional training,
exceeding minimum upgrade training requirements, with emphasis on present and future duty positions.
To provide additional training in this area, MAJCOMs must develop a continuation training program
that ensures individuals in the aerospace maintenance career field receive the necessary training at the
appropriate point in their career. The training program will identify both mandatory and optional
training requirements. The CBTs for Integrated Maintenance Data System (IMDS) were discontinued 1
Mar 12 and FTD is developing new courses. Refer to Part II, Section D, (Training Course Index), of
this CFETP for a listing of available AETC supplementary training courses.

4. CCAF/Higher Education and Advanced Certification Opportunities. Higher education and
advanced certification is a personal choice that is encouraged for the professional development of the
entire enlisted force. Listed below are some current opportunities:

4.1. CCAF Academic Programs. Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon completion of Basic Military
Training (BMT). CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate in Applied Sciences Degree.




                                                     6
4.1.1. Degree Requirements: Prior to completing an associate degree, the 5-level must be awarded
and the following requirements must be met:
                                                                               Semester Hours
   Technical Education………………………………………………………………………24
   Leadership, Management, and Military Studies…………………………………………..6
   Physical Education………………………………………………………………………...4
   General Education………………………………………………………………………...15
   Program Elective………………………………………………………………………….15
        Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and Military
        Studies; or General Education
   Total………………………………………………………………………………………64

4.1.1.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours). A minimum of 12 semester hours of Technical
Core subjects and courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied from Technical
Core or Technical Elective subjects and courses. Completion of the initial skills resident training at
Sheppard AFB satisfies all or part of the technical education requirement.

4.1.1.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours). Professional military
education and/or civilian management courses.

4.1.1.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours). This requirement is satisfied by completion of Basic
Military Training.

4.1.1.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours). Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement with the
definitions of applicable General Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF General Catalog.

4.1.1.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours). Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects and courses, including
natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Six semester hours of CCAF degree-
applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied. See the CCAF
General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science degree for this specialty.

4.1.2. CCAF Instructor Certification. Upon completion of instructor qualification training, consisting
of the instructor methods course and supervised practice teaching, CCAF instructors who possess an
associate‟s degree or higher may be nominated by their school commander and commandant for
certification as an instructor.

4.1.3. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill certification is
awarded for the primary occupational specialty. The College uses a competency based assessment
process for trade skill certification at one of four proficiency levels: Apprentice, Journeyman,
Craftsman (Supervisor), or Master Craftsman (Manager). All are transcribed on the CCAF transcript.

4.2. AETC Instructor. Individuals desiring to become an AETC Instructor should be actively pursuing
an associate's degree. Special Duty Assignment (SDA) requires an AETC Instructor candidate to have a
CCAF degree or be within one year of completion (45 semester hours [SH]).



                                                    7
A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges
and Schools. An AETC instructor can also be awarded an Associates of Applied Science, Instructor of
Technology and Military Science degree.

4.3. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Airframe and Power plant (A&P) Certification. Air
Force aircraft maintenance technicians are eligible to pursue FAA A&P certification based on training
and experience in accordance with Federal Aviation Regulation Part 65. The DoD established the Joint
Service Aviation Maintenance Technician Certification Council (JSAMTCC) to standardize the
eligibility and certification process for the military and provide direction and resources necessary to fill
the gaps within military training and experience. The program consists of on-the-job (OJT) training,
three Air University Online A&P Specialized Courses, documented evidence of 30 months practical
experience in airframe and powerplant systems, and 4 years time-in-service. CCAF manages the AF
A&P Certification Program. Technicians may enroll in the program and begin training once they have
been awarded their 5-skill level. To learn more and enroll in the program, visit CCAF‟s website at
https://augateway.maxwell.af.mil/ccaf/certifications/a_and_p/.
The CCAF currently awards 30 Semester hours for the FAA A&P certification and 18 Semester hours
for the FAA Airframe or Power plant certification.

4.4. Other Certification Programs. CCAF is actively pursuing other licensure and certification
opportunities related to specific career fields. To learn more about other certification opportunities visit
CCAF‟s website at https://augateway.maxwell.af.mil/ccaf/certifications/programs/.




                                                      8
5. Career Field Path:
NOTE: For the latest information My Development Plan (MyDP) (formerly MyEDP), log on to the AF
Portal, and click on the MyDP link under Education/Training/Force Development.

5.1. Enlisted Career Path. Table 5.1 identifies career milestones for the 2A3X3 Air Force Specialty.

                      Table 5.1 Enlisted Career Path (Airman Promotion Reference AFI 36-2502)
                                                                                Grade Requirements
   Education and Training Requirements                    Rank        Average         Earliest        High Year Of Tenure
                                                                      Sew-On         Sew-On                   (HYT)
   Basic Military Training School
   Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)            Amn         6 months
                                                          A1C        10 months
   Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level)                  Amn
   - Minimum 12 months on-the-job training (9             A1C        10 months
     months for retrainees).                               SrA         3 years      28 months               10 Years*
   - Complete all 5-level core tasks.
   - Complete appropriate CDC if/when available.
   Airman Leadership School (ALS)                                                     Trainer
   - Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service or - Qualified and certified to perform the task to be trained.
     be a SSgt Selectee.                                - Must attend formal AF Trainer Course
   - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt     - Recommended by the supervisor
     sew-on (Active Duty Only).
                                                                                      Certifier
                                                        - Possess at least a SSgt with a5-skill level or civilian equivalent;
                                                          and qualified and certified to perform the task being certified
                                                        - Attend formal AF Trainer Course
                                                        - Be a person other than the trainer except for AFSCs, duty
                                                          positions, units and/or work centers with specialized training
                                                          standardization and certification requirements.
   Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)                   SSgt        7.5 years       3 years               20 Years*
   - Minimum rank of SSgt.
   - Minimum 12 months on-the-job training (6
     months for retrainees).
   - Complete all 5- and 7-level core tasks.
   - Complete appropriate CDCs if/when available.
   Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)                 TSgt       12.5 years       5 years               22 Years*
   - Must be a TSgt or TSgt Selectee.
   - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt
     sew-on (Active Duty Only).                           MSgt        16 years        8 years                24 Years
   USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)                       SMSgt       19.2 years      11 years                26 Years
   - Must be a SMSgt or SMSgt Selectee.
   - SMSgt selects must complete In-resident PME
     before assuming this rank
   - A percentage of top non-select (for promotion to
     E-8) MSgts attend the SNCOA each year.
   Upgrade To Superintendent (9-Skill Level)             CMSgt       21.5 years      14 years                30 Years
   - Minimum rank of SMSgt.
*Note: In accordance with Personnel Service Delivery Memorandum (PSDM) 11-110 dated 19 Dec 2011, effective in FY13,
HYT for Senior Airman will be reduced from 10 to 8 years, Staff Sergeant will be reduced from 20 to 15 years, and Technical
Sergeant will be reduced from 22 to 20 years. The HYT changes will be phased in to coincide with the FY13 promotion
cycles. Attachment 1 to the PSDM outlines criteria and provides guidance regarding the HYT adjustments.




                                                              9
 5.2. Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist:

  Table 5.2. Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist
  Requirements for Upgrade to:                                                                  Y N
  Journeyman
  - Does apprentice possess 2A333E/L/M AFSC?
  - Has apprentice completed mandatory CDCs?
  - Has apprentice completed all appropriate 5-level core tasks identified in the CFETP?
  - Has apprentice completed minimum 12 months UGT (9 months for retrainees) for award
    of 5-skill level?
  - Has apprentice met mandatory requirements listed in specialty description, ECD and CFETP?
  - Has apprentice been recommended by their supervisor?
  Craftsman
  -   Does Journeyman possess 2A353E/L/M AFSC?
  -   Has journeyman achieved the rank of SSgt?
  -   Has journeyman completed mandatory CDCs?
  -   Has journeyman completed all core tasks identified in the CFETP?
  - Has journeyman completed minimum 12 months UGT (6 months for retrainees) for
    award of 7-skill level?



TO: Squadron/CC

FROM: Squadron Training Manager

SUBJECT: Upgrade Trainee

Trainee is prepared to be upgraded and has completed all mandatory training requirements.


_______________________                                        _____________________
    Training Manager                                                 Supervisor




                                                      10
SECTION C – SKILL-LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

1. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of tasks and
knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each skill
level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award, and retention
of each skill level. The specific tasks and knowledge training requirements are identified in the STS at
Part II, Sections A, B, and D of this CFETP.

2. Specialty Qualification Requirements.

2.1. Apprentice Level Training (3-Level):

2.1.1. Specialty Qualification. This information will be located in the official specialty description in
the AFECD.

2.1.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: principles applying to aircraft systems, flight theory,
hydraulic principles, electrical theory, principles, concepts, and application of maintenance directives
and data reporting, using technical data, technical order use. Air Force supply and deficiency reporting
procedures, and proper handling, use, and disposal of hazardous waste and materials.

2.1.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty completion of high school is mandatory. Completion
of related vocational courses is highly desirable.

2.1.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2A333E/L/M, completion of a suffix specific basic aircraft
maintenance course, as applicable is mandatory.

2.1.1.4. Experience. There is no experience necessary for entry into AFSC 2A333E/L/M.

2.1.1.5. Other. For entry into this specialty normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical
Examination and Standards is required. See attachment four of the AFECD for additional entry
requirements. Specialty requires routine access to Secret material or similar environment. For award
and retention of AFSCs 2A333X/53/73, completed and current National Agency Check, Local Agency
Checks and Credit (NACLC) according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management.
Award of the 3-skill level without a completed NACLC is authorized provided an interim NACLC has
been granted according to AFI 31-501.

2.1.2. Training Sources and Resources. Formal AETC initial skills courses provide the required
knowledge and task proficiency training for award of the 3-skill level. Training includes
fundamental/common maintenance requirements, system theory and operation, system components,
component removal and installation, introduction to maintenance concepts, general flight line
maintenance practices, use of technical publications, maintenance documentation, and AGE/SE
equipment familiarization and use.

2.1.3. Implementation. Upon graduation from Basic Military Training, Airmen are assigned to the
82d Training Wing, 362nd Training Squadron, to attend formal technical training appropriate to his
or her end assignment and type aircraft.



                                                    11
This training begins with fundamental maintenance training common to all aircraft maintenance
apprentices within the specialty. This generic phase of training is followed by aircraft-specific
maintenance training. These task-oriented follow-on courses are/will be conducted at various
locations. Successful completion of formal technical training (listed in Part II, section D paragraph
2) results in the award of the 3-skill level.

2.2. Journeyman Level Training (5-Level):

2.2.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is derived from the official specialty description in the
AFECD.

2.2.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to the 3-level qualifications, a 5-level must possess the knowledge and
skills necessary to maintain aircraft systems and associated systems. An individual must be task
qualified on aircraft inspections, servicing, ground handling, troubleshooting, component
removal/repair/installation, and system component operational checks. Journeymen perform operational
checks, component repair, and use and maintenance of test and support equipment. Individuals can
apply the proper handling, use, and disposal of hazardous waste and materials IAW federal and local
environmental standards.

2.2.1.2. Education: There are no formal education requirements for upgrade to AFSC 2A353E/L/M.
However, progress toward a CCAF Associate‟s Degree is highly encouraged.

2.2.1.3. Training: Completion of the journeyman aircraft maintenance career development course
(CDC), 2AX5X CDC and completion of the core tasks specified in the STS is mandatory.

2.2.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A333 with appropriate shred is
required. Also, experience in functions such as repairing and maintaining aircraft or related installed
equipment is required.

2.2.1.5. Other. See attachment four of the AFECD for additional entry requirements. Specialty
requires routine access to secret material or similar environment. For award and retention of AFSCs
2A333X/53/73, completed and current National Agency Check, Local Agency Checks and Credit
(NACLC) according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management. Award of the 3-skill
level without a completed NACLC is authorized provided an interim NACLC has been granted
according to AFI 31-501.

2.2.2. Training Sources and Resources. The 5-level (2AX5X) CDC provides the career knowledge
training required. Qualification training and OJT will provide training and qualification on the core
tasks identified in the STS. The CDC is written to build from the trainee's current knowledge base and
provides more in-depth knowledge to support OJT requirements.

2.2.3. Implementation. The units utilizing this STS, exportable courses, and CDCs perform training to
the 5-level.
Upgrade to the 5-level requires completion of the 2AX5X CDC, completion of all 5-level core tasks as
identified in the STS for one MDS, and 12 months upgrade training (9 months for retrainees).




                                                    12
2.2.4. Supervisor/Training Manager Input. Utilize Table 5.2 Base/Unit Education and Training
Checklist as applicable to facilitate upgrade actions.

2.3. Craftsman Level Training (7-Level):

2.3.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is derived from the official specialty description in the
AFECD.

2.3.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to the 5-level qualifications, an individual must possess advanced
skills and knowledge of theory, concepts, and principles of aircraft maintenance. The 7-level must be
able to supervise and train personnel to maintain 2A3X3 systems. They must be able to plan, schedule,
and organize maintenance to ensure effective utilization of available resources. Qualification is required
on advanced repair, inspection, troubleshooting, and diagnostic techniques. Historical documentation
analysis is also required for all 7-levels.

2.3.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for the
apprentice level. However, progress toward a CCAF Associate‟s Degree is highly encouraged.

2.3.1.3. Training. Completion of CDC, 2AX7X, is mandatory for upgrade to AFSC 2A373E/L/M.

2.3.1.4. Experience. Completion of all required 7-level core tasks as identified in the STS for one
MDS, and qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A353. Also, experience in functions such as
repairing and maintaining aircraft or related installed equipment, and powered and non-powered ground
SE is required.

2.3.1.5. Other. For entry into this specialty, normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical
Examination and Standards is required. See attachment four of the AFECD for additional entry
requirements. Specialty requires routine access to Secret material or similar environment. For award
and retention of AFSC 2A3X3, completion of a current National Agency Check, Local Agency Checks
and Credit (NACLC) according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management.

2.3.2. Training Sources and Resources. Seven-level upgrade training will be completed and
conducted by certified trainers using AF core tasks and unit/MAJCOM specific courses.

2.3.3. Supervisor/Training Manager Input. Utilize Table 5.2 Base/Unit Education and Training
Checklist as applicable to facilitate upgrade actions.

2.3.4. Implementation. Units utilizing the STS and CDCs perform training to the 7-level. Upgrade to
the 7-level requires completion of CDC 2AX7X, completion of all core tasks as identified in the STS for
one MDS, 12 months upgrade training (6 months for retrainees), and promotion to Staff Sergeant.

2.4. Superintendent Level Training (9-Level):

2.4.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is derived from official specialty description in the
AFECD.




                                                   13
2.4.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to 7-level qualifications, an individual must possess advanced
skills and knowledge of concepts and principles in the management of aircraft maintenance. The 9-
level needs to be an effective leader with the ability to forecast, budget and manage funds. They
must be knowledgeable of federal and local environmental standards and ensure adherence to the
proper handling and disposal of hazardous materials. Also required is the ability to evaluate
maintenance, interpret and resolve technical problems, and to analyze system and component
failures and inspection results.

2.4.1.2. Education. There are no additional requirements.

2.4.1.3. Training. An individual must be trained to perform duties at the 9 skill-level to include the
following: advanced skills and knowledge of concepts and principles in the management of maintenance
efforts on aircraft and aircraft systems; efficient management and direction of aerospace repairs to
include planning and organizing resources, evaluating maintenance, interpreting and resolving technical
problems, analyzing system and component failures and inspection results, determining optimum
management procedures and requirements, and the management and projection of funds to support
maintenance efforts.

2.4.1.4. Experience. For award of AFSC 2A390, qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A371,
2A372, or 2A373, 2A377, 2A378 is mandatory. Also, experience in managing, supervising, or
directing functions associated with maintaining aircraft is mandatory.

2.4.1.5. Other. Not used.

2.4.2. Training Sources and Resources. No formal training is required. Qualification training and
experience inherent in career specialty job performance are desired sources of training.

2.4.3. Implementation. The 9-level will be awarded after promotion to SMSgt.

SECTION D - RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS

1. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies known resource constraints, which preclude optimum
and desired training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and
manpower. Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what
effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section are actions required,
office of primary responsibility (OPR), and target completion dates. Resource constraints will be, as a
minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

There are no resource constraints identified for training in this AFSC.

SECTION E - TRANSITIONAL TRAINING GUIDE

There is currently no transition training requirement. This area is reserved.




                                                   14
PART II

SECTION A – SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD (STS)

1. Implementation. These Specialty Training Standard (STS) attachments will be used for technical
training provided by AETC for classes beginning on 1 August 2012.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:

2.1. Column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) lists the most common tasks, knowledge,
and technical references (TR) necessary for airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level.

2.2. Column 2 (Core Tasks) identifies, by asterisk (*), specialty-wide training requirements. Core
tasks identified with an *R are optional for the AFRC and the ANG. As a minimum, certification on
all AFCFM directed core tasks applicable to the specialty must be completed for skill level upgrade.
Exemptions:

2.2.1. Core tasks that are not applicable to base assigned aircraft or equipment are not required for
upgrade (units are not required to send personnel TDY for core task training).

2.2.2. For units with more than one mission-design-series (MDS) aircraft, upgrade trainees need only
complete core tasks on a single MDS. MFMs, unit commanders, and/or supervisors may require
trainees to complete core task training on additional MDS aircraft, if desired. If some of these core
tasks involve training in another unit on base, trainees must still complete all core tasks relevant to at
least one MDS aircraft. All units are bound by the requirements in this CFETP and will accommodate
core task trainees from other units.

2.3. Column 3 (Certification for OJT) provides certification for OJT and is used to record completion
of tasks and knowledge training requirements. Use IMDS/G081 or Training Business Area (TBA) to
document technician qualifications, if available. Task certification must show a certification or
completed date.

2.4. Column 4 (Proficiency Codes) shows formal training and correspondence course requirements.
Also shows the proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the
task and knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course.

3. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to indicate the
level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career development courses.

4. Job Qualification Standard. The STS becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job
training when placed in AF Form 623, On-The-Job Training Record, and used according to AFI 36-
2201. For OJT, the tasks in column 1 are trained and qualified to the go/no go level. "Go" means the
individual can perform the task without assistance and meets local requirements for accuracy,
timeliness, and correct procedures. When used as a JQS, the following requirements apply:




                                                     15
4.1 Documentation. Document and certify completion of training IAW AFI 36-2201. Units
converted to Training Business Area (TBA) will use this system to document training. IMDS or G081
will continue to be used to document ancillary training and other training currently maintained in these
data systems. Use of Part II and attachments one and two of this CFETP are mandatory in individual
training records where paper training records are the primary method of documenting training.

4.1.1. Transcribing from Old CFETP to New CFETP. All AFJQSs and previous CFETPs are replaced
by this CFETP; therefore, transcribing of all training records to this CFETP STS is mandatory. Use
this CFETP STS (or automated STS) to identify and certify all past and current qualifications.
Document and certify all previous and current training IAW AFI 36-2201.

5. STS. A guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion System
(WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the AETC Airman Advancement
Division, by Senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their career fields. The tests sample
knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development team members as most appropriate
for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon study references listed in the WAPS
catalog. Individual responsibilities are in AFI 36-2605 Air Force Military Personnel Testing System,
WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve.

6. Recommendations. Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates to the
AETC training manager at 362 TRS, 613 10th Ave, Sheppard AFB TX, 76311-2352, DSN 736-1825.
Please reference specific STS paragraphs.

SECTION B - COURSE OBJECTIVE LIST (COL)

1. Introduction. Each proficiency coded STS task or knowledge item taught at the technical school is
measured through the use of an objective. An objective is a written instruction for the student so he or
she knows what is expected of them to successfully complete training on each task. Each objective is
comprised of a condition, behavior, and standard that states what is expected of the student for each task.
The condition is the setting in which the training takes place (i.e. TOs, type of equipment, etc). The
behavior is the observable portion of the objective (i.e. perform an operational check). The standard is
the level of performance that is measured to ensure the STS proficiency code level is attained. AETC
course objectives and associated information are published in the Plan of Instruction (POI) for each of
the courses identified in Section D, below, Training Course Index.

2. Measurement. Each objective is indicated as follows: W indicates task or subject knowledge,
which is measured using a written test. PC indicates required task performance, which is measured with
a performance progress check. PC/W indicates separate measurement of both knowledge and
performance elements using a written test and a performance progress check.

3. Standard. The minimum standard for written examinations is 70%. Standards for performance
measurement are indicated in the objective and delineated on the individual progress check checklist.
The checklist is used by the instructor to document each student‟s progress, on each task. Instructor
assistance is provided as needed during the progress check, and students may be required to repeat all or
part of the behavior until satisfactory performance is attained. Students must satisfactorily complete all
PCs prior to taking the written test.



                                                    16
4. Proficiency Level. Review column 4A of the STS to determine the proficiency level of a particular
task or knowledge item. Review the course objective list to determine which STS item the objective
supports. Review the proficiency code key in the STS Attachment 1 of this CFETP for an explanation
of the proficiency codes. Most task performance is taught to the „2b‟ proficiency level which means the
students can do most parts of the task, but does need assistance on the hardest parts of the task (partially
proficient). The student can also determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task. For tasks that
are taught to the „3c‟ proficiency level, students can do all parts of the task and only require a spot check
on completed work (competent). The student can also identify why and when a task must be done and
why each step is needed.

5. Course Objectives List. A detailed listing of initial skills or craftsman courses are listed in Section
D tables 2.1 and 2.2 and a complete list of objectives may be obtained by submitting a written request to
the identified course OPR in Section D, paragraph 1. Course descriptions can be found on line in the
Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA). The URL for ETCA is:
https://etca.randolph.af.mil/

SECTION C - SUPPORT MATERIAL

1. Support Material. Interactive Courseware (ICW) is available from the 367 TRS/TRSS at Hill AFB
Utah. To obtain more information, request a copy of the Courseware Catalog from 367 TRS, 6058
Aspen, Hill AFB UT 84056-5805. Their customer service number is DSN 586-7294. To request
ordering information on hardware, your MAJCOM training POC (for ACC, AMC, and ANG) is the first
stop. For personnel in other MAJCOMs, contact them directly and they will provide you the
information required for purchasing the item through them. If you decide to purchase the system, they
will FAX you the AF Form 616 to use for an example.

SECTION D - TRAINING COURSE INDEX

1. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the 2A3X3 specialty
and shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field training programs.
For further information on the following courses, contact the OPR as indicated:

  OPR:   362 TRS/TRR                                             372 TRS/TD
         613 10th Avenue, Suite 3                                912 Avenue I, Suite 3
         Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2352                             Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2852
         DSN 736-1825                                            DSN 736-4788
Website: https://etca.randolph.af.mil/




                                                     17
2. Air Force In-resident Courses:

NOTE: Unless otherwise stated in the Course Title block below, airframe specific STS elements are
trained in the course(s) listed in the 2A3X3 Course Objective Training Matrix, attachment B.

Table 2.1
Course Number             Course Title             Location           OPR        USER      Course
                                                                                           Length
                          Tactical Aircraft
                          Maintenance              Sheppard AFB,
J3AQR2A333E000B                                                     362 TRS      USAF         72
                          Apprentice (A-10)             TX
                          Fighter Aircraft
                                                     Davis
J3ABP2A333E000C           Maintenance                               372 TRS      USAF         23
                                                   Monthan, AZ
                          Apprentice (A-10)
                          Tactical Aircraft
                          Maintenance              Sheppard AFB,
J3AQR2A333E041A                                                     362 TRS      USAF         24
                          Apprentice (U-2) (STS         TX
                          attachment 2 only)
                          Tactical Aircraft
                          Maintenance              Sheppard AFB,
J3ABP2A333E041A                                                     372 TRS      USAF         50
                          Apprentice (U-2) (STS         TX
                          attachment 4 only)
                          Tactical Aircraft
                          Maintenance              Sheppard AFB,
J3AQR2A333L025A                                                     362 TRS      USAF
                          Apprentice (F-15)             TX                                    75
                          Tactical Aircraft          Seymour
J3ABP2A333L025A           Maintenance              Johnson AFB,     372 TRS      USAF         19
                          Apprentice (F-15)             NC
                          Tactical Aircraft
                                                   Sheppard AFB,
J3AQR2A333M026A           Maintenance                               362 TRS      USAF         82
                                                        TX
                          Apprentice (F-16)
                          Tactical Aircraft
J3ABP2A333M026A           Maintenance              Luke AFB, AZ     372 TRS      USAF         20
                          Apprentice (F-16)

NOTE: For further information on the supplemental courses, contact the OPR as indicated.

OPR: 362 TRS/TRR                         372 TRS                      373 TRS
     613 10th Avenue, Suite 3            912 Avenue I, Suite 3        912 Avenue I, Suite 3
     Sheppard AFB, TX 76311              Sheppard AFB, TX 76311       Sheppard AFB, TX 76311
     DSN 736-1825                        DSN 736-4797                 DSN 736-4750
Website: https://etca.randolph.af.mil/




                                                  18
Table 2.2 Supplemental Courses
Supplemental Course Number            Course Title                            OPR            User
J3AZR2AXXX 0W1A                       Weight and Balance Practical            362 TRS        USAF
J7AZT2AXXX 0W1A                       Weight and Balance Practical (MTT)      362 TRS        USAF
J3AAR2AXXX 048A                       Crash Damaged, Disabled Aircraft        362 TRS        USAF
                                      Recovery
J4AMP2AXXX A48A                       IMDS Flightline                         372 TRS        USAF
J4AMP2AXXX B48A                       IMDS Flightline Advanced                372 TRS        USAF
J4AMP2AXXX C48A                       IMDS Backshop                           372 TRS        USAF
J4AMP2AXXX D48A                       IMDS Backshop Advanced                  372 TRS        USAF
J4AMP2AXXX E48A                       G0-81 Flightline                        373 TRS        USAF
J4AMP2AXXX F48A                       G0-81 Flightline Advanced               373 TRS        USAF
J4AMP2AXXX G48A                       G0-81 Backshop                          373 TRS        USAF
J4AMP2AXXX H48A                       G0-81 Backshop Advanced                 373 TRS        USAF

3. Extension Course Programs. Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning (AU/A4L)
Courses (website: http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/)

   OPRs: 362 TRS/TRR
         613 10th Avenue
         Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2352
         DSN 736-1825

Table 3.1 CDC Courses
Course Number                    Course Title                                OPR            User
CDC 2AX5X (3 Volumes)            Aerospace Maintenance Journeyman            362 TRS        USAF
CDC 2AX7X (2 Volumes)            Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman             362 TRS        USAF


4. Exportable Courses:

The 367 TRS course catalog can be ordered by contacting the OPR at the following address:

OPR:        367 TRS
            6058 Aspen Ave
            Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805
            DSN 586-7294

The following course can be found on the ETCA website, available through AETC ADLS:

OPR:        362 TRS/TRR
            613 10th Avenue
            Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2352
            DSN 736-1825



                                                     19
Table 4.1 Exportable Courses
Course Number              Course Title/Media                              OPR           User
J6ANW2AXXX 0W1A           Weight and Balance (General)                     362 TRS       USAF
J6AZW2AXXX 0Q1A           Quality Assurance Aircraft                       362 TRS       USAF


5. Courses Under Development/Revision. There are currently no courses under development or
revision. This area is reserved.

SECTION E - MAJCOM UNIQUE REQUIREMENTS

For MAJCOM unique requirements, refer to the MAJCOM mandatory course lists.

  CAF MCL https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/docman/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&FolderID=OO-TE-AC-
       42-14&Filter=OO-TE-AC-42


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE



OFFICIAL
                                                 JUDITH A. FEDDER
                                                 Lieutenant General, USAF
                                                 DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support


8 Attachments
1. Proficiency Code Key
2. STS Aircraft Maintenance Common Training Qualitative Requirements
3. STS 2A3X3E, A-10 Aircraft Qualitative Requirements
4. STS 2A3X3E, U-2 Aircraft Qualitative Requirements
5. STS 2A3X3L, F-15 Aircraft Qualitative Requirements
6. STS 2A3X3M, F-16 Aircraft Qualitative Requirements
A. STS 2AX7X, Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman
B. 2A3X3 Course Objective Training Matrix




                                                20
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                Initials (Written)                     SSAN (last four only)

                                             Printed Name Of Training/Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                           N/I

N/I                                                                            N/I

N/I                                                                            N/I

N/I                                                                            N/I

N/I                                                                            N/I

N/I                                                                            N/I

N/I                                                                            N/I

N/I                                                                            N/I

N/I                                                                            N/I

N/I                                                                            N/I

                                                 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                               Proficiency Code Key
                         Scale Value         Definition: The individual
                                             IS EXTREMELY LIMITED (Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how
                               1             to do most of the task.)
    Task                                     IS PARTIALLY PROFICIENT (Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest
                               2             parts.)
Performance
                               3             IS COMPETENT (Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work.)
   Levels
                                             IS HIGHLY PROFICIENT (Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show
                               4             others how to do the task.)
                              a              KNOWS NOMENCLATURE (Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. )
   *Task                      b              KNOWS PROCEDURES (Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. )
 Knowledge                                   KNOWS OPERATING PRINCIPLES (Can identify why and when the task must be done and
                              c
   Levels                                    why each step is needed.)
                              d              KNOWS ADVANCED THEORY (Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task.)
                              A              KNOWS FACTS (Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject.)
 **Subject                                   KNOWS PRINCIPLES (Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles
                              B              about the subject.)
 Knowledge                                   KNOWS ANALYSIS (Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject.)
                              C
   Levels                                    KNOWS EVALUATION (Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the
                              D              subject.)
Explanations:
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific
task. (Example: b and 1b)
** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or
for a subject common to several tasks.
- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the courses or CDCs.
/ This mark is used in course columns along with proficiency codes to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in
resources (3c/b, 2b/b, 2b/- etc.).
Note: All tasks and knowledge items taught in the initial skills course are trained during war time.




                                                                          21                                                     Attachment 1
This Page Intentionally Left Blank




                22                   Attachment 1
                        AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D       E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course   CDC    Course CDC       Course    CDC

NOTE 1: Users are responsible for annotating training references pending STS revision.
NOTE 2: All task/knowledge taught in the initial skills course trained in the resident wartime courses.
NOTE 3: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) are the core tasks for either the 5 or 7 skill level and are required
for upgrade. Items marked with an (*/R) are not required by AFRC and ANG for upgrade.

A2.1.          CAREER LADDER
               PROGRESSION
               TR: Air Force Enlisted
               Classification Directory
A2.1.1         Progression in career
                                                                                                                          A       -        -        -       -         -
               ladder
                                                                                                                          A       -        -        -       -         -
A2.1.2         Duties of AFS
A2.2.          OPERATIONS
               SECURITY (OPSEC)
               VULNERABILITY OF
               AFSC
               TR: AFI 10-1101
                                                                                                                          A       -        -        -       -         -
A2.2.1         Purpose of OPSEC
A2.3.          AF OCCUPATIONAL
               SAFETY AND HEALTH
               (AFOSH) PROGRAM
               TR: AFIs 11-218, 21-101
               and 91-301; Applicable
               AFOSH Standards; TOs
               00-25-172, 1-1-691, and
               applicable aircraft TOs
A2.3.1         Housekeeping consistent
               with safety of personnel                                                                                   A       -        -       B        -         -
               and equipment
A2.3.2.        Safety precautions
               pertaining to aircraft
               maintenance
A2.3.2.1       Engine air intake and
                                                                                                                          A       -        -       B        -         -
               exhaust
A2.3.2.2       High intensity sound                                                                                       A       -        -       B        -         -
A2.3.2.3       Turbine, propeller, and
                                                                                                                          A       -        -       B        -         -
               rotor plane of rotation
A2.3.2.4       Radio frequency radiation                                                                                  A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.3.2.5       Ground handling of aircraft                                                                                A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.3.2.6       Hot brakes                                                                                                 A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.3.2.7       Use of tools and equipment                                                                                 A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.3.2.8       Servicing aircraft systems                                                                                 A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.3.2.9       Cleaning agents                                                                                            A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.3.2.10      Solvents                                                                                                   A       -        -       B        -         -



                                                                                   23                                                                                 Attachment 2
                          AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D       E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course   CDC    Course CDC       Course    CDC

A2.3.2.11      Lubricants                                                                                                 A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.3.2.12      High pressure gasses                                                                                       A       -        -       B        -         -
A2.3.2.13      Aircraft explosive
                                                                                                                          A       -        -       B        -         -
               equipment
A2.3.2.14      Composite materials                                                                                        A       -        -       B        -         -
A2.3.2.15      Maintenance resource
                                                                                                                          A       -        -        -       -         -
               management
A2.3.2.16      Electrostatic hazards, static
               grounding and bonding
                                                                                                                          A       -        -        -       -         -
               TR: TOs 00-25-172 and
               00-25-234
A2.3.3.        Portable ground fire
               extinguishers
               TR: AFI 32-2001; TO 00-
               25-172
                                                          *
A2.3.3.1       Perform pre-use inspection                                                                                2b       -        -        -       -         -

A2.3.3.2       Position                                                                                                  1b       -        -        -       -         -

A2.3.3.3       Operate                                                                                                    -       -        -        -       -         -
A2.3.4         Foreign Object Damage
                                                                                                                          A       -        -       B        -         -
               (FOD) prevention program
A2.3.5         Dropped object prevention
                                                                                                                          A       -        -       B        -         -
               program
A2.3.6.        Hazardous chemicals
               TR: AFI 90-821;
               Applicable AFOSH
               Standards
A2.3.6.1       Use                                                                                                        A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.3.6.2       Disposal                                                                                                   A       -        -       B        -         -
A2.3.6.3       Hazard communication
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               training program
A2.3.6.4       Hazardous material
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               handling procedures
A2.3.7         AF Form 1492, Warning
               Tag                                                                                                        A       -        -        -       -         -
               TR: TO 00-20-1
A2.4.          MAINTENANCE
               DIRECTIVES,
               REFERENCES, &
               INSTRUCTIONS
               TR: AFI 33-360; TO 00-5
               series as applicable
                                                                                                                                  -        -                -         -
A2.4.1         TO system
                                                                                                                          A                        B
A2.4.2         Air Force manuals and
                                                                                                                          A       -        -       B        -         -
               instructions



                                                                                   24                                                                                 Attachment 2
                        AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D       E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course   CDC    Course CDC       Course    CDC

A2.4.3         Use technical orders                                                                                      1b       -        -        -       -         -

A2.4.4         TO improvement reporting                                                                                   -       -        -       B        -         -
A2.4.5         Technical order
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               management
A2.5.          SUPERVISION
               TR: AFIs 21-101 and 36-
               2403; AFTTP 3-3
A2.5.1         Plan work schedules                                                                                        -       -        -        -       -         -

A2.5.2         Schedule maintenance                                                                                       -       -        -        -       -         -
A2.5.3         Supervise personnel
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               accomplishing maintenance
A2.5.4.        Establish

A2.5.4.1       Work methods                                                                                               -       -        -        -       -         -

A2.5.4.2       Work controls                                                                                              -       -        -        -       -         -

A2.5.4.3       Performance standards                                                                                      -       -        -        -       -         -
A2.5.5         Evaluate work performance
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               of subordinate personnel
A2.6.          TRAINING
               TR: AFIs 36-2201 and
               36-2232
A2.6.1         Evaluate personnel for
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               training
A2.6.2         Plan and supervise OJT                                                                                     -       -        -        -       -         -
A2.6.3         Counsel trainees on
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               training progress
A2.6.4         Prepare AF Form 797                                                                                        -       -        -        -       -         -

A2.6.5         Document training records                                                                                  -       -        -       A        -         -
A2.6.6         Purpose and use of Career
               Field Education and                                                                                        -       -        -       A        -         -
               Training Plan (CFETP)
A2.7.          MAINTENANCE
               MANAGEMENT
               TR: AFIs 21-101, 21-103,
               21-118 and 90-201;
               AFMAN 23-110
A2.7.1         Basic functions within
                                                                                                                          A       -        -       B        -         -
               maintenance
                                                                                                                          -       -        -       B        -         -
A2.7.2         Resource management
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
A2.7.3         Personnel management




                                                                                   25                                                                                 Attachment 2
                         AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D       E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course   CDC    Course CDC       Course    CDC

A2.7.4         Maintenance incident
               investigation and                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               prevention
A2.7.5         Determine and report
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               aircraft status
A2.7.6         Maintenance Performance
               Indicators (MPI)                                                                                           -       -        -       A        -         -
               relationships
A2.8.          MAINTENANCE DATA
               DOCUMENTATION
               (MDD)
               TR: AFI 21-101; TO 00-
               20 Series; Applicable
               aircraft –06 Work Unit
               Code Manuals; I
               Integrated Maintenance
               Data System (IMDS) on-
               line help screens; G0-81
               on-line help screens
A2.8.1         MDD Fundamentals                                                                                           A       -        -       B        -         -
A2.8.2.        Aircraft and supporting
               maintenance records
A2.8.2.1       Purpose                                                                                                    A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.8.2.2       Automated Forms                                                                                            A       -        -        -       -         -
A2.8.2.3       Document AFTO Form
                                                                                                                         1b       -        -        -       -         -
               781H
A2.8.2.4       Document AFTO Form
                                                                                                                         1b       -        -        -       -         -
               781A
A2.8.2.5       Document AFTO Form
                                                                                                                         1b       -        -        -       -         -
               781J
A2.8.2.6       Document AFTO Form
                                                                                                                         1b       -        -        -       -         -
               781K
A2.8.2.7       Document other AFTO 781
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               series forms
A2.8.2.8       Document AFTO Form
                                                                                                                         1b       -        -        -       -         -
               244/245
A2.8.2.9       Document AFTO Form
                                                                                                                         1b       -        -        -       -         -
               350
A2.8.2.10      Document AFTO Form
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               349
A2.8.2.11      Document AFTO Form 95                                                                                      -       -        -        -       -         -
A2.8.3.        Maintenance Information
               Systems (MIS)
A2.8.3.1       Purpose                                                                                                    A       -        -       B        -         -
A2.8.3.2.      Job data documentation
               (JDD)
A2.8.3.2.1     Purpose                                                                                                    -       -        -        -       -         -



                                                                                   26                                                                                 Attachment 2
                         AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D       E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course   CDC    Course CDC       Course    CDC

A2.8.3.2.2     Access JDD                                                                                                 -       -        -        -       -         -

A2.8.3.2.3     Create maintenance event                                                                                   -       -        -        -       -         -

A2.8.3.2.4     Defer maintenance event                                                                                    -       -        -        -       -         -
A2.8.3.2.5     Schedule maintenance
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               event
A2.8.3.2.6     Close maintenance event                                                                                    -       -        -        -       -         -

A2.8.3.2.7     Use IMDS                                                                                                   -       -        -        -       -         -
A2.8.3.3.      G0-81

A2.8.3.3.1     Purpose                                                                                                    -       -        -        -       -         -

A2.8.3.3.2     Access JDD                                                                                                 -       -        -        -       -         -

A2.8.3.3.3     Create maintenance event                                                                                   -       -        -        -       -         -

A2.8.3.3.4     Defer maintenance event                                                                                    -       -        -        -       -         -
A2.8.3.3.5     Schedule maintenance
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               event
A2.8.3.3.6     Close maintenance event                                                                                    -       -        -        -       -         -

A2.8.3.3.7     Use G0-81                                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -

A2.8.4         Historical records                                                                                         -       -        -        -       -         -

A2.8.5         Configuration management                                                                                   -       -        -       A        -         -
A2.9.          MAINTENANCE
               MATERIALS/TOOLS
               TR: AFI 21-101; TOs 1-
               1A-8, 1-1A-14, 1-1-691
               and TO 32 series as
               applicable
A2.9.1         Tool control                                                                                               A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.9.2         Select and use special tools                                                                               -       -        -        -       -         -
A2.9.3         Select/use restraint harness
               (e.g.; fall
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               protection/prevention
               equipment)
A2.9.4         Process TMDE equipment                                                                                     -       -        -        -       -         -
A2.9.5.        Hardware

A2.9.5.1       Purpose                                                                                                    A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.9.5.2       Remove/inspect/install                                                                                    2b       -        -        -       -         -




                                                                                   27                                                                                 Attachment 2
                         AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D       E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course   CDC    Course CDC       Course    CDC

A2.9.6.        Electrical connectors

A2.9.6.1       Purpose                                                                                                    A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.9.6.2       Connect/disconnect                                                                                        2b       -        -        -       -         -

A2.9.7.        Securing devices

A2.9.7.1       Purpose                                                                                                    A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.9.7.2       Install/remove safety wire                                                                                2b       -        -        -       -         -

A2.9.7.3       Install/remove cotter pins                                                                                2b       -        -        -       -         -

A2.9.7.4       Safety cable                                                                                               A       -        -        -       -         -

A2.9.8         Lubricants                                                                                                 A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.9.9         Sealants                                                                                                   A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.9.10        Adhesives                                                                                                  A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.9.11        Cleaning agents                                                                                            A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.9.12.       Hand tools

A2.9.12.1      Purpose                                                                                                    A       -        -        -       -         -

A2.9.12.2      Select, inspect and use                                                                                   2b       -        -        -       -         -

A2.9.13.       Measuring tools

A2.9.13.1      Purpose                                                                                                    A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.9.13.2      Select and use ruler                                                                                      2b       -        -        -       -         -
A2.9.13.3      Select and use thickness
                                                                                                                         2b       -        -        -       -         -
               gauge
A2.9.13.4      Use multi-meter                                                                                           2b       -        -        -       -         -
A2.9.13.5      Select, inspect and use
                                                                                                                         2b       -        -        -       -         -
               torque wrench
A2.9.13.6      Select and use micrometer                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -

A2.9.13.7      Use depth gauge                                                                                           2b       -        -        -       -         -
A2.10.         RESPONSIBILITY FOR
               SUPPLY
               TR: AFI 21-101 and 21-
               118; AFMAN 23-110;
               TOs 00-20-3 and 00-35D-
               54
A2.10.1        Maintenance supply
                                                                                                                          A       -        -       B        -         -
               concept



                                                                                   28                                                                                 Attachment 2
                        AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D       E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course   CDC    Course CDC       Course    CDC

A2.10.2        Standard Base Supply
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               System (SBSS)
A2.10.3        Special requisition (GPC,
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               local purchase)
A2.10.4        Ordering parts                                                                                             A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.10.5        Priority system                                                                                            A       -        -        -       -         -
A2.10.6        Prepare repairable and
                                                                                                                          -       -        -       B        -         -
               serviceable parts for turn-in
A2.10.7        Repair cycle assets                                                                                        -       -        -        -       -         -

A2.10.8        DIFM Control                                                                                               -       -        -       B        -         -

A2.10.9        Local manufacture of parts                                                                                 -       -        -        -       -         -
A2.10.10       Equipment account
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               management
A2.10.11       Deficiency reporting                                                                                       -       -        -       B        -         -

A2.10.12       Warranty programs                                                                                          -       -        -       B        -         -
A2.10.13       DD Forms 1574, 1575,
                                                                                                                          -       -        -       B        -         -
               1576, 1577 and 1577-2
A2.10.14       Classified asset handling                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -
A2.11.         AIRCRAFT GENERAL
               TR: AFI 11-218;
               Applicable AFOSH
               STDs; TOs 00-20-1, 00-
               25-172, 1-1-691, 1-1B-50
               and applicable aircraft
               TOs
A2.11.1        Weight and balance                                                                                         A       -        -       B        -         -
A2.11.2        Determine weight and
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               balance requirements
A2.11.3        Inventory aircraft
                                                                                                                          -       -        -       A        -         -
               equipment
A2.11.4        Safe aircraft for
                                                                                                                          A       -        -        -       -         -
               maintenance
A2.11.5.       Corrosion control program

A2.11.5.1      Aircraft cleaning                                                                                          A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.11.5.2      Corrosion identification                                                                                   A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.11.5.3      Corrosion treatment                                                                                        A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.11.5.4      Aircraft lubrication                                                                                       A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.11.6.       Aircraft inspections




                                                                                   29                                                                                 Attachment 2
                         AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D       E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course   CDC    Course CDC       Course    CDC

A2.11.6.1      Concepts and types                                                                                         A       -        -       B        -         -
A2.11.6.2      Non-Destructive
                                                                                                                          A       -        -        -       -         -
               Inspections (NDI)
A2.11.6.3      Borescope                                                                                                  A       -        -        -       -         -
A2.11.7.       Fundamentals of ground
               handling
A2.11.7.1      Jacking                                                                                                    A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.11.7.2      Towing                                                                                                     A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.11.7.3      Mooring                                                                                                    A       -        -       B        -         -
                                                          *
A2.11.8        Aircraft marshalling signals                                                                              2b       -        -        -       -         -
A2.11.9        Crash Damaged, Disabled
               Aircraft Recovery                                                                                          A       -        -        -       -         -
               (CDDAR)
A2.11.10       Perform inclement/cold
               weather procedures                                                                                         -       -        -        -       -         -
               TR: TO 42C-1-2S-2,
A2.11.11       De-ice aircraft:
               TR: TO 42C-1-2S-2;
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               14CFR121.629 section
               121.629
A2.11.12       Debrief aircrews                                                                                           -       -        -        -       -         -

A2.11.13.      Aircraft guarded switches
A2.11.13.1     Design/function/proper
                                                                                                                          A       -        -        -       -         -
               identification
A2.11.13.2     Remove and replace covers                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -

A2.11.13.3     Operational check                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
A2.11.14       Aircraft Battle Damage
               Repair (ABDR)                                                                                              -       -        -       A        -         -
               TR: 1-1H-39
A2.12.         AIRFRAME
               TR: Applicable aircraft
               TOs
A2.12.1        Structure                                                                                                  A       -        -       B        -         -
A2.12.2        Remove/inspect/install
                                                                                                                         1b       -        -        -       -         -
               panels
A2.12.3        Inspect structural
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               components
A2.13.         LANDING GEAR
               TR: Applicable aircraft
               TOs
A2.13.1        System fundamentals                                                                                        A       -        -       B        -         -




                                                                                   30                                                                                 Attachment 2
                         AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D       E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course   CDC    Course CDC       Course    CDC

A2.13.2.       Service

A2.13.2.1      Shock strut                                                                                               1b       -        -        -       -         -

A2.13.2.2      Tire                                                                                                      1b       -        -        -       -         -

A2.13.3.       Remove/install

A2.13.3.1      Wheel and tire assembly                                                                                   1b       -        -        -       -         -

A2.13.3.2      Brake assembly                                                                                            1b       -        -        -       -         -

A2.13.4        Brake bleeding                                                                                             A       -        -        -       -         -
A2.14.         UTILITIES
               TR: Applicable aircraft
               TOs
A2.14.1.       System fundamentals

A2.14.1.1      Oxygen                                                                                                     A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.14.1.2      Bleed air                                                                                                  A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.14.1.3      Pressurization                                                                                             A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.14.1.4      Air conditioning                                                                                           A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.14.1.5      Fire/overheat warning                                                                                      A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.14.1.6      Fire suppression                                                                                           A       -        -       B        -         -
A2.15.         FLIGHT CONTROLS
               TR: Applicable aircraft
               TOs
A2.15.1        Fundamentals of flight                                                                                     A       -        -       B        -         -
A2.15.2        Primary flight control
                                                                                                                          A       -        -        -       -         -
               fundamentals
A2.15.3        Secondary flight control
                                                                                                                          A       -        -        -       -         -
               fundamentals
A2.15.4        Component identification                                                                                   A       -        -        -       -         -

A2.15.5        Operate flight controls                                                                                   1b       -        -        -       -         -
A2.16.         HYDRAULICS
               TR: TO 1-1A-8 and
               applicable aircraft TOs
A2.16.1        System fundamentals                                                                                        A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.16.2.       Remove/install components

A2.16.2.1      Tubing/hoses                                                                                               -       -        -        -       -         -




                                                                                   31                                                                                 Attachment 2
                          AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D       E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course   CDC    Course CDC       Course    CDC

A2.16.2.2      Fittings                                                                                                   -       -        -        -       -         -

A2.16.2.3      Filter elements                                                                                            -       -        -        -       -         -
A2.16.3        Hydraulic schematics
                                                                                                                          A       -        -        -       -         -
               /diagrams
A2.17.         ENGINES
               TR: Applicable aircraft
               TOs
A2.17.1        System fundamentals                                                                                        A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.17.2        Component identification                                                                                   A       -        -        -       -         -

A2.17.3        Oil system servicing                                                                                       A       -        -        -       -         -

A2.17.4        Joint oil analysis program                                                                                 -       -        -       B        -         -
A2.18.         FUELS
               TR: TOs 00-25-172, 1-1-3
               and applicable aircraft
               TOs, Applicable AFOSH
               standards
A2.18.1        System fundamentals                                                                                        A       -        -       B        -         -

A2.18.2        Classify fuel leaks                                                                                        A       -        -        -       -         -
A2.19.         ELECTRICAL
               TR: Applicable aircraft
               TOs
A2.19.1        AC electrical system
                                                                                                                          A       -        -       B        -         -
               fundamentals
A2.19.2        DC electrical system
                                                                                                                          A       -        -       B        -         -
               fundamentals
A2.19.3        Wire repair                                                                                                A       -        -        -       -         -

A2.19.4        Fiber optics                                                                                               A       -        -        -       -         -

A2.19.5        Electrical bonding                                                                                         A       -        -        -       -         -

A2.19.6        Databus                                                                                                    A       -        -        -       -         -
A2.19.7        Electrical schematics
                                                                                                                          A       -        -        -       -         -
               /diagrams
A2.20.         AEROSPACE GROUND
               EQUIPMENT
               TR: Applicable AFOSH
               STDs; TO 35A4 series as
               applicable
A2.20.1.       Maintenance stands

A2.20.1.1      Purpose and description                                                                                    A       -        -       B        -         -
A2.20.1.2      Perform pre-use inspection
                                                                                                                         2b       -        -        -       -         -
               and operate



                                                                                   32                                                                                 Attachment 2
                        AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D       E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course   CDC    Course CDC       Course    CDC

A2.20.2.       Self-propelled universal
               platforms
A2.20.2.1      Purpose and description                                                                                    A       -        -       B        -         -
A2.20.2.2      Perform pre-use inspection
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               and operate
A2.20.3.       Aircraft jacks
               TR: TO 35A2 series as
               applicable
A2.20.3.1      Purpose and description                                                                                    A       -        -       B        -         -
A2.20.3.2      Perform pre-use inspection
                                                                                                                         2b       -        -        -       -         -
               and operate
A2.20.4.       Jacking manifold
               TR: TO 35A2 series as
               applicable
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
A2.20.4.1      Purpose and description
A2.20.4.2      Perform pre-use inspection
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               and operate
A2.20.5.       Oxygen servicing
               equipment
               TR: TO 15X-1-1and
               37C2-8 series as applicable
A2.20.5.1.     Liquid oxygen (LOX)

A2.20.5.1.1    Purpose and description                                                                                    A       -        -       B        -         -
A2.20.5.1.2    Perform pre-use inspection
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               and operate
A2.20.5.2.     Gaseous oxygen (GOX)

A2.20.5.2.1    Purpose and description                                                                                    A       -        -       B        -         -
A2.20.5.2.2    Perform pre-use inspection
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               and operate
A2.20.6.       Diesel air compressors
               TR: TO 34Y1 series as
               applicable
A2.20.6.1      Purpose and description                                                                                    A       -        -       B        -         -
A2.20.6.2      Perform pre-use inspection
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               and operate
A2.20.7.       Ground heaters
               TR: TO 35E7 series as
               applicable
A2.20.7.1      Purpose and description                                                                                    A       -        -       B        -         -
A2.20.7.2      Perform pre-use inspection
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               and operate
A2.20.8.       Lighting equipment
               TR: TO 35F5 series as
               applicable



                                                                                   33                                                                                 Attachment 2
                        AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D       E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course   CDC    Course CDC       Course    CDC

A2.20.8.1      Purpose and description                                                                                    A       -        -       B        -         -
A2.20.8.2      Perform pre-use inspection
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               and operate
A2.20.9.       Hydraulic test stand
               TR: TO 33A2 series as
               applicable
A2.20.9.1      Purpose and description                                                                                    A       -        -       B        -         -
A2.20.10.      Air conditioning units
               TR: TO 35E9 Series as
               applicable
A2.20.10.1     Purpose and description                                                                                    A       -        -       B        -         -
A2.20.11.      Ground generator sets/gas
               turbine compressors
A2.20.11.1.    A/M32A-60 gas turbine
               generator set/gas turbine
               compressor
               TR: TO 35D12 series as
               applicable
A2.20.11.1.1 Purpose and description                                                                                      A       -        -       B        -         -
A2.20.11.1.2 Perform pre-use inspection
                                                                                                                         2b       -        -        -       -         -
             and operate
A2.20.11.2. A/M32A-95 gas turbine
             compressor
             TR: TO 35D12series as
             applicable
A2.20.11.2.1 Purpose and description                                                                                      A       -        -       B        -         -
A2.20.11.3.    Diesel driven generator sets
               TR: TO 35C2 series as
               applicable
A2.20.11.3.1 Purpose and description                                                                                      A       -        -       B        -         -
A2.20.11.3.2 Perform pre-use inspection
                                                                                                                         2b       -        -        -       -         -
             and operate
A2.20.12.    Tow bar
             TR: Applicable aircraft
             TOs
A2.20.12.1     Perform pre-use inspection                                                                                 -       -        -        -       -         -

A2.20.12.2     Connect/disconnect                                                                                         -       -        -        -       -         -
A2.20.13.      Tow vehicles
               TR: TO 36A10 series as
               applicable
A2.20.13.1     Purpose and description                                                                                    -       -        -       B        -         -
A2.20.13.2     Perform pre-use inspection
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               and operate




                                                                                   34                                                                                 Attachment 2
                        AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D       E            A                B                  C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course   CDC    Course CDC       Course    CDC

A2.20.14.      Self-generating nitrogen
               equipment
               TR: TO 35D29-7-6-1
A2.20.14.1     Purpose and description                                                                                    A       -        -       B        -         -
A2.20.14.2     Perform pre-use inspection
                                                                                                                         2b       -        -        -       -         -
               and operate
A2.20.15.      Gaseous nitrogen servicing
               equipment
               TR: TO 35D3 series as
               applicable
A2.20.15.1     Purpose and description                                                                                    A       -        -       B        -         -
A2.20.15.2     Perform pre-use inspection
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               and operate
A2.20.16.      Engine stands and dollies
               TR: TO 35D3 series as
               applicable
A2.20.16.1     Purpose and description                                                                                    -       -        -       A        -         -
A2.20.16.2     Perform pre-use inspection
                                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
               and operate




                                                                                   35                                                                                 Attachment 2
This Page Intentionally Left Blank




               36                    Attachment 2
                                       A-10 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     B       C        A        B          C          D           E              A               B                 C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill Level  5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level
                                                5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)      (2) (1)        (2)     (1)       (2)
                                                                  Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course CDC Course        CDC     Course CDC

NOTE 1: Users are responsible for annotating training references pending STS revision.
NOTE 2: All task/knowledge taught in the initial skills course trained in the resident wartime courses.
NOTE 3: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) are the core tasks for either the 5 or 7 skill level and are required
for upgrade. Items marked with an (*/R) are not required by AFRC and ANG for upgrade.

A3.1.         AIRCRAFT GENERAL

A3.1.1        Phased inspection concept                                                                                  A       -       -        -        -       -

A3.1.2        Types of special inspections                                                                               A       -       -        -        -       -

A3.1.3        Safe aircraft for maintenance       *                                                                     3c       -       -        -        -       -
A3.1.4.       Perform inspections
              TR: Applicable 1A-10( )-6 TOs
A3.1.4.1      Phase                                                                                                      -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.1.4.2      Preflight                           *                                                                      -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.1.4.3      Thruflight                          *                                                                      -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.1.4.4      Basic postflight                    *                                                                      -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.1.4.5      Combined preflight/postflight       *                                                                     3c       -       -        -        -       -

A3.1.4.6      Launch aircraft                     *                                                                     3c       -       -        -        -       -

A3.1.4.7      Recover aircraft                    *                                                                     3c       -       -        -        -       -

A3.1.4.8      End of runway                                                                                              -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.1.4.9.     Perform special inspections

A3.1.4.9.1    Gun bay                                     *                                                              -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.1.4.9.2    Acceptance                                                                                                 -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.1.4.9.3    Over-G                                                                                                     -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.1.4.9.4    Engine bay                                  *                                                              -       -       -        -        -       -
A3.1.5.       Perform ground handling
              TR: AFI 11-218; AFOSH 91-
              100; TO 00-25-172
A3.1.5.1.     Tow aircraft
              TR: TO 1A-10( )-2-4JG-1
A3.1.5.1.1    Tow team member                     *                                                                     2b       -       -        -        -       -

A3.1.5.1.2    Tow team supervisor                         *                                                              -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.1.5.1.3    Tow vehicle operator                                                                                       -       -       -        -        -       -




                                                                                37                                                                                 Attachment 3
                                      A-10 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     B       C        A        B          C          D           E              A               B                 C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill Level  5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level
                                                5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)      (2) (1)        (2)     (1)       (2)
                                                                  Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course CDC Course        CDC     Course CDC

A3.1.5.2      Moor aircraft                                                                                              a       -       -        -        -       -
A3.1.5.3.     Jack and level aircraft
              TR: TO 1A-10( )-2-4JG-1
A3.1.5.3.1    Jacking team member                 *                                                                     2b       -       -        -        -       -

A3.1.5.3.2    Jacking supervisor                          *                                                              -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.1.5.3.3    Axle jacking                        *                                                                     2b       -       -        -        -       -
A3.1.5.4      Wash aircraft
                                                                                                                         -       -       -        -        -       -
              TR: TO 1A-10( )-23 and 1-1-691
A3.1.5.5      Lubricate aircraft
                                                                                                                        2b       -       -        -        -       -
              TR: TO 1A-10( )-6WC-7
A3.1.5.6      Assist in weight and balance
                                                                                                                         -       -       -        -        -       -
                           TR: TO 1-1B-50
A3.1.6.       A-10 technical orders
              TR: TO 1A-10( )-01
A3.1.6.1      Use technical orders                *                                                                     3c       -       -        -        -       -
A3.1.6.2      Use Illustrated Parts Breakdown
                                                  *                                                                     2b       -       -        -        -       -
              (IPB)
A3.1.7.       Aircraft and supporting
              maintenance records
              TR: TO 00-20-1
A3.1.7.1      Document AFTO Form 781H             *                                                                     3c       -       -        -        -       -

A3.1.7.2      Document AFTO Form 781A             *                                                                     3c       -       -        -        -       -

A3.1.7.3      Document AFTO Form 781J             *                                                                     3c       -       -        -        -       -

A3.1.7.4      Document AFTO Form 781K             *                                                                     3c       -       -        -        -       -
A3.1.7.5      Document DD Form 2026
                                                                                                                        2b       -       -        -        -       -
              (JOAP)
A3.2.         AIRFRAME SYSTEMS
              TR: 1A-10( )-2 series TOs
A3.2.1        Airframe components and
                                                                                                                         A       -       -        -        -       -
              construction
A3.2.2.       Remove/install open and close
              airframe components
A3.2.2.1      Stress panels                       *                                                                     2b       -       -        -        -       -

A3.2.2.2      Doors                               *                                                                     2b       -       -        -        -       -

A3.2.2.3      Variable ballast                                                                                           b       -       -        -        -       -

A3.2.2.4      Fixed ballast                                                                                              b       -       -        -        -       -

A3.2.2.5      Outer nacelle doors                 *                                                                     2b       -       -        -        -       -

A3.2.2.6      Inner shrouds                       *                                                                     2b       -       -        -        -       -




                                                                                38                                                                                 Attachment 3
                                          A-10 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                   2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        B       C        A        B          C          D           E              A               B                 C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level  5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level
                                                   5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)      (2) (1)        (2)     (1)       (2)
                                                                     Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course CDC Course        CDC     Course CDC

A3.2.2.7      Cargo pods                                                                                                   2b       -       -        -        -       -

A3.2.3.       Windscreen

A3.2.3.1      Raise/lower                            *                                                                     2b       -       -        -        -       -

A3.2.3.2.     Remove and install

A3.2.3.2.1    Windscreen assembly                                                                                           -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.2.3.2.2    Left/right transparency                                                                                       -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.2.3.2.3    Center glass                                                                                                  -       -       -        -        -       -
A3.3.         LANDING GEAR SYSTEMS
              TR: Applicable -2 TOs
A3.3.1        Landing gear system components
                                                                                                                            A       -       -        -        -       -
              and operation
A3.3.2.       Perform operational checks/bleed

A3.3.2.1      Alternate gear retraction                                                                                    2b       -       -        -        -       -
A3.3.2.2      Landing gear ground safety
                                                                                                                            -       -       -        -        -       -
              circuit
A3.3.2.3      Landing gear retraction for
                                                                                                                            -       -       -        -        -       -
              control system
A3.3.2.4      Landing gear retraction for flight
                                                             *                                                              -       -       -        -        -       -
              safety circuit
A3.3.2.5      Steering system                                                                                               -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.3.2.6      Anti-skid system                                                                                              -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.3.2.7      Auxiliary extension system                                                                                   2b       -       -        -        -       -

A3.3.2.8      Brakes                                 *                                                                     1b       -       -        -        -       -

A3.3.2.9      Drag strut actuators                                                                                          -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.3.2.10     Emergency brake system                 *                                                                     2b       -       -        -        -       -
A3.3.3.       Landing gear struts
              TR: TO 1A-10( )-2-12JG-1
A3.3.3.1      Initial servicing                                                                                             -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.3.3.2      Alternate initial servicing            *                                                                      -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.3.3.3      MLG shock strut servicing                                                                                    2b       -       -        -        -       -

A3.3.4        Service tires                          *                                                                     3c       -       -        -        -       -
A3.3.5.       Remove/install landing gear
              components




                                                                                   39                                                                                 Attachment 3
                                         A-10 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                 2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                        Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      B       C        A        B          C          D           E              A               B                 C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill Level  5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level
                                                 5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)      (2) (1)        (2)     (1)       (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course CDC Course        CDC     Course CDC

A3.3.5.1      Nose wheel and tire assembly         *                                                                     2b       -       -        -        -       -

A3.3.5.2      Main wheel and tire assembly         *                                                                     2b       -       -        -        -       -

A3.3.5.3      Dual brake control valve                                                                                    -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.3.5.4      Rig dual brake control valve                                                                                -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.3.5.5      Brake assembly                       *                                                                     2b       -       -        -        -       -

A3.3.5.6      NLG strut                                                                                                   -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.3.5.7      MLG strut                                                                                                   -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.3.5.8      Steering unit                                                                                               -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.3.5.9      Drag strut actuator                                                                                         -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.3.5.10     Emergency selector valve                                                                                    -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.3.5.11     Brake shuttle valve                  *                                                                      -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.3.5.12     Uplock actuators                                                                                            -       -       -        -        -       -
A3.3.6        Determine serviceability of
              aircraft tires                       *                                                                     2b       -       -        -        -       -
              TR: 4T-1-3
A3.3.7        Repack landing gear struts                                                                                  -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.3.8        Troubleshoot                                                                                                -       -       -        -        -       -
A3.3.9.       Wheel and tire assembly build-up
              and tear-down
              TR: TO 4W-1-61, 4W1-4-1053,
              4W3-4-1052
A3.3.9.1      Main wheel                                                                                                  -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.3.9.2      Nose wheel                                                                                                  -       -       -        -        -       -
A3.4.         UTILITY SYSTEMS
              TR: TO 1A-10( )-2-21JG-8
A3.4.1        Utility system components and
                                                                                                                          A       -       -        -        -       -
              operation
A3.4.2.       Oxygen system
              TR: TOs 00-25-172 and 37C2-8
A3.4.2.1      Service                              *                                                                     2b       -       -        -        -       -
A3.4.2.2      Remove/inspect/install LOX
                                                   *                                                                     2b       -       -        -        -       -
              converter
A3.4.2.3      Drain                                                                                                       -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.4.3        Windshield wash servicing                                                                                   -       -       -        -        -       -




                                                                                 40                                                                                 Attachment 3
                                      A-10 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                 2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                        Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      B       C        A        B          C          D           E              A               B                 C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill Level  5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level
                                                 5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)      (2) (1)        (2)     (1)       (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course CDC Course        CDC     Course CDC
A3.5.         FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEM
              TR: TO 1A-10( )-2-27JG series
              TOs
A3.5.1        Flight control system components
                                                                                                                          B       -       -        -        -       -
              and operation
A3.5.2.       Perform operational checks

A3.5.2.1      Aileron                                                                                                     -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.2.2      Elevators                                                                                                   -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.2.3      Flaps                                                                                                       -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.2.4      Speed brake                                                                                                 -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.2.5      Slats                                                                                                       -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.2.6      Rudders                                                                                                     -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.2.7      Manual reversion                                                                                            -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.3.       Remove/install

A3.5.3.1      Rudder                                                                                                      -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.3.2      Rudder actuator                                                                                             -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.3.3.     Elevators

A3.5.3.3.1    Elevator                                                                                                    -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.3.3.2    Trim tabs                                                                                                   -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.3.3.3    Trim tab actuator                                                                                           -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.3.3.4    Actuator                                                                                                    -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.3.4.     Decelerons

A3.5.3.4.1    Deceleron                                                                                                   -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.3.4.2    Speed brake boards                                                                                          -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.3.4.3    Aileron servo tabs                                                                                          -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.3.4.4    Roll tab shifter                                                                                            -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.3.4.5    Roll trim actuator                                                                                          -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.3.4.6    Aileron actuator                                                                                            -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.3.4.7    Speed brake actuator                                                                                        -       -       -        -        -       -




                                                                                 41                                                                                 Attachment 3
                                       A-10 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                   2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        B       C        A        B          C          D           E              A               B                 C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level  5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level
                                                   5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)      (2) (1)        (2)     (1)       (2)
                                                                     Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course CDC Course        CDC     Course CDC

A3.5.3.4.8    Speed brake swivels                                                                                           -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.3.5.     Slats

A3.5.3.5.1    Slats                                                                                                         -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.3.5.2    Actuator                                                                                                      -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.3.5.3    Bell cranks                                                                                                   -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.3.5.4    Control valve                                                                                                 -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.3.5.5    Idler arms                                                                                                    -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.3.6.     Flaps

A3.5.3.6.1    Flaps                                                                                                         -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.3.6.2    Actuator                                                                                                      -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.3.6.3    Actuator control valve                                                                                        -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.3.7      Flight control disconnector                                                                                   -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.3.8      Flight control bell crank assembly                                                                            -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.3.9      Flight control cables                                                                                         -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.4.       Rig flight control systems

A3.5.4.1      Primary                                                                                                       -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.4.2      Secondary                                                                                                     -       -       -        -        -       -
A3.5.5.       Troubleshoot flight control
              systems
A3.5.5.1      Primary                                                                                                       -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.5.5.2      Secondary                                                                                                     -       -       -        -        -       -
A3.6.         HYDRAULIC SYSTEM
              TR: TOs 1A-10( )-2-12 and -
              29JG-1
A3.6.1        Hydraulic system components
                                                                                                                            A       -       -        -        -       -
              and operation
A3.6.2.       Service

A3.6.2.1      Accumulators                           *                                                                     2b       -       -        -        -       -

A3.6.2.2      Reservoir                              *                                                                     2b       -       -        -        -       -

A3.6.3        Bleed                                          *                                                             2b       -       -        -        -       -




                                                                                   42                                                                                 Attachment 3
                                      A-10 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                 2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                        Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      B       C        A        B          C          D           E              A               B                 C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill Level  5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level
                                                 5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)      (2) (1)        (2)     (1)       (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course CDC Course        CDC     Course CDC

A3.6.4        Drain hydraulic reservoir                                                                                   -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.6.5        Flush                                                                                                       -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.6.6        Fluid sampling                                                                                              -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.6.7.       Remove/install

A3.6.7.1      Accumulators                                                                                                -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.6.7.2      Lines                                                                                                       -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.6.7.3      Filters                                                                                                     -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.6.7.4      Reservoir                                                                                                   -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.6.8        Troubleshoot                                                                                                -       -       -        -        -       -
A3.7.         ENGINE SYSTEM
              TR: 1A-10( )-2-71JG series
              TOs
A3.7.1        Engine system components and
                                                                                                                          A       -       -        -        -       -
              operation
A3.7.2.       Remove/install

A3.7.2.1      Air turbine starter                                                                                         -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.7.2.2      Fuel pump                                                                                                   -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.7.2.3      Integrated Drive Generator (IDG)                                                                            -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.7.2.4      Hydraulic pump                                                                                              -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.7.2.5      Engine                                                                                                      -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.7.2.6      Throttle quadrants                                                                                          -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.7.2.7      Throttle cables                                                                                             -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.7.2.8      Spinner domes                                                                                               -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.7.2.9      Expansion ring                                                                                              -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.7.2.10     Aft shroud                                                                                                  -       -       -        -        -       -
A3.7.3        Perform 125 hour engine
              inspection                                   *                                                              -       -       -        -        -       -
              TR: TO 1A-10()-6
A3.7.4        Rig throttle                                                                                                -       -       -        -        -       -
A3.7.5        Take oil sample
                                                   *                                                                     3c       -       -        -        -       -
              TR: TO 1A-10( )-2-12JG-1
A3.7.6.       Service



                                                                                 43                                                                                 Attachment 3
                                      A-10 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     B       C        A        B          C          D           E              A               B                 C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill Level  5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level
                                                5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)      (2) (1)        (2)     (1)       (2)
                                                                  Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course CDC Course        CDC     Course CDC

A3.7.6.1      Oil system                          *                                                                     3c       -       -        -        -       -

A3.7.6.2      IDG                                 *                                                                      -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.7.6.3      Air turbine starter                 *                                                                      -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.7.7.       Drain

A3.7.7.1      Oil system                                                                                                 -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.7.7.2      IDG                                                                                                        -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.7.8        Engine water wash                                                                                          -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.7.9        Use borescope equipment                                                                                    -       -       -        -        -       -
A3.7.10.      Turbine Engine Monitoring
              System (TEMS)
              TR: 1A-10( )-2-37JG series TOs
A3.7.10.1     Components and operation                                                                                   A       -       -        -        -       -

A3.7.10.2     Remove/install components                                                                                  -       -       -        -        -       -
A3.7.11.      Auxiliary Power Unit (APU)
              TR: 1A-10( )-2-71JG series TOs
              and TO 1A-10( )-2-12JG-1
A3.7.11.1     Components and operation                                                                                   A       -       -        -        -       -

A3.7.11.2     Service APU                         *                                                                     2b       -       -        -        -       -

A3.7.11.3.    Remove/install

A3.7.11.3.1   APU                                                                                                        -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.7.11.3.2   Generator                                                                                                  -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.7.11.3.3   Fuel control                                                                                               -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.7.11.3.4   Hydraulic pump                                                                                             -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.7.11.3.5   APU control box                                                                                            -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.7.11.3.6   Starter                                                                                                    -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.7.11.3.7   Filters                                                                                                    -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.7.11.4     Troubleshoot                                                                                               -       -       -        -        -       -
A3.8.         FUEL SYSTEM
              TR: 1A-10( )-2-12 and -28
              series TOs
A3.8.1.       Fuel system components and
              operation




                                                                                44                                                                                 Attachment 3
                                      A-10 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                   2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        B       C        A        B          C          D           E              A               B                 C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level  5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level
                                                   5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)      (2) (1)        (2)     (1)       (2)
                                                                     Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course CDC Course        CDC     Course CDC

A3.8.1.1      Internal                                                                                                      A       -       -        -        -       -

A3.8.1.2      External                                                                                                      A       -       -        -        -       -

A3.8.2        Refuel aircraft                        *                                                                     3c       -       -        -        -       -

A3.8.3.       Defuel aircraft

A3.8.3.1      Team member                            *                                                                     1b       -       -        -        -       -

A3.8.3.2      Team supervisor                                *                                                              -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.8.4        Remove/install external fuel tanks     *                                                                      -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.8.5        Perform leak and transfer check        *                                                                      -       -       -        -        -       -
A3.8.6.       Universal Aerial Refueling
              Receptacle Slipway Installation
              (UARRSI)
A3.8.6.1      UARRSI system components and
                                                                                                                            A       -       -        -        -       -
              operation
A3.9.         ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
              TR: TO 1A-10( )-2-21JG-1
A3.9.1        Electrical system components and
                                                                                                                            A       -       -        -        -       -
              operation
A3.9.2.       Remove/install

A3.9.2.1      Exterior light lenses                                                                                         -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.9.2.2      Interior light lenses                                                                                         -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.9.2.3      Exterior light bulbs                                                                                          -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.9.2.4      Interior light bulbs                                                                                          -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.9.2.5      Battery                                *                                                                     3c       -       -        -        -       -

A3.9.3        Apply external electrical power        *                                                                     3c       -       -        -        -       -
A3.10.        EGRESS SYSTEM
              TR: TOs 1A-10( )-2-4-1 and -
              51JG-1
A3.10.1       Egress system components and
                                                                                                                            A       -       -        -        -       -
              operation
A3.10.2       Perform cockpit entry procedures       *                                                                     3c       -       -        -        -       -

A3.10.3.      Operate canopy system

A3.10.3.1     Normal                                 *                                                                     3c       -       -        -        -       -

A3.10.3.2     Manual                                 *                                                                     3c       -       -        -        -       -

A3.10.3.3     Seat operation                                                                                               3c       -       -        -        -       -



                                                                                   45                                                                                 Attachment 3
                                      A-10 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     B       C        A        B          C          D           E              A               B                 C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill Level  5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level
                                                5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)      (2) (1)        (2)     (1)       (2)
                                                                  Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course CDC Course        CDC     Course CDC

A3.10.4.      Remove/install

A3.10.4.1     Canopy                                                                                                     -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.10.4.2     Actuator                                                                                                   -       -       -        -        -       -

A3.10.5       Rig canopy                                                                                                 -       -       -        -        -       -
A3.11.        AEROSPACE GROUND
              EQUIPMENT
              TR: Applicable AFOSH STDs;
              applicable 35A4 series TOs
A3.11.1.      Hydraulic test stand
              TR: TO 33A2- series as
              applicable
A3.11.1.1     Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                  *                                                                     2b       -       -        -        -       -
              operate
A3.11.2.      Oil servicing carts
              TR: TO 35A17- series as
              applicable
A3.11.2.1     Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                  *                                                                     2b       -       -        -        -       -
              operate
A3.11.3.      Hydraulic servicing carts
              TR: TO 35D29 Series as
              applicable
A3.11.3.1     Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                  *                                                                     2b       -       -        -        -       -
              operate
A3.11.4.      Engine removal/installation
              Trailer
              TR: TO 35D3 Series
A3.11.4.1     Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                         -       -       -        -        -       -
              operate
A3.11.5.      Liquid Oxygen (LOX) servicing
              equipment
              TR: TO 37C2-8
A3.11.5.1     Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                  *                                                                     2b       -       -        -        -       -
              operate
A3.11.6.      Engine hoist and beams
              TR: 35D4-2-67-1
A3.11.6.1     Perform pre-use and operate                                                                                -       -       -        -        -       -




                                                                                46                                                                                 Attachment 3
                                             U-2 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                   2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                   Task                                                                      Training/Information Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       B        C          A        B          C          D           E               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level
                                                   5 Level     7        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                             Level      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course CDC       Course    CDC     Course CDC

NOTE 1: Users are responsible for annotating training references pending STS revision.
NOTE 2: All task/knowledge taught in the initial skills course trained in the resident wartime courses.
NOTE 3: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) are the core tasks for either the 5 or 7 skill level and are required for
upgrade. Items marked with an (*/R) are not required by AFRC and ANG for upgrade.

A4.1.        AIRCRAFT GENERAL

A4.1.1.      Use technical data

A4.1.1.1     Technical manuals                      *                                                                          3c       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.1.2     Illustrated parts breakdown                                                                                       3c       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.1.3     Interpret aircraft blueprints                                                                                      -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.1.4     Interpret aperture cards                                                                                           -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.1.1.5     Interpret Spare Parts and AGE
                                                                                                                                -       -        -        -       -         -
             Application Data Listing (SPAADL)
A4.1.1.6     Interpret factory manuals                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.1.2.      Aircraft and supporting maintenance
             records
A4.1.2.1     Document AFTO Form 781H                *                                                                          3c       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.2.2     Document AFTO Form 781A                *                                                                          3c       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.2.3     Document AFTO Form 781J                *                                                                          3c       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.2.4     Document AFTO Form 781K                *                                                                          3c       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.2.5     Document DD Form 2026 (JOAP)           *                                                                          3c       -        -        -       -         -
A4.1.3.      Periodic inspection concept and
             inspections
             TR: TO 00-20-1; TMs U-2S-6WC-
             1PRPO and U-2S-6
A4.1.3.1     Periodic inspection concept                                                                                       A        -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.3.2.    Perform inspections

A4.1.3.2.1   Periodic                                                                                                           -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.3.2.2   Preflight                              *                                                                           -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.3.2.3   Thruflight                             *                                                                           -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.3.2.4   Basic postflight (BPO)                 *                                                                           -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.3.2.5   Combine BPO/pre-flight                 *                                                                          3c       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.3.2.6   Hourly postflight                                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -




                                                                                47                                                                                Attachment 4
                                              U-2 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                  2. Core            3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  Task                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       B        C          A        B          C          D           E               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level
                                                   5 Level     7        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                             Level      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course CDC       Course    CDC     Course CDC

A4.1.3.2.7    Prelaunch inspection                                                                                              -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.3.2.8.   Pogo runway

A4.1.3.2.8.1 Team supervisor                                 *                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.3.2.8.2 Team member                            *                                                                          3c       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.3.2.9.   Special inspections

A4.1.3.2.9.1 Hard/abnormal landing                                                                                              -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.3.2.9.2 Airframe overspeed                                                                                                 -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.3.2.9.3 Engine bay                                      *                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.3.2.9.4 Aft section                                     *                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.3.2.9.5 Acceptance                                                                                                         -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.3.2.9.6 Calendar                                                                                                           -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.1.4.       Perform ground handling
              TR: AFI 11-218; AFOSH Std 91-100,
              TO 00-25-172; TM U-2S-2-1
A4.1.4.1      Launch aircraft                       *                                                                          3c       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.4.2      Recover aircraft                      *                                                                          3c       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.4.3      Wing riding member                                                                                                -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.4.4      Wing riding supervisor                         *                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.4.5      Hand launch member                                                                                                -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.4.6      Hand launch supervisor                         *                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.4.7      Aircraft push-back member                                                                                         -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.4.8      Aircraft push-back supervisor                                                                                     -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.4.9      Remove/install ground cooling kit                                                                                 -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.4.10.    Tow aircraft

A4.1.4.10.1 Tow team member                         *                                                                          3c       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.4.10.2 Tow vehicle operator                                                                                                -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.4.10.3 Tow team supervisor                              *                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.4.11     Moor aircraft                         *                                                                          3c       -        -        -       -         -




                                                                                48                                                                                Attachment 4
                                             U-2 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                  2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  Task                                                                      Training/Information Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      B        C          A        B          C          D           E               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                             3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level
                                                  5 Level     7        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                            Level      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course CDC       Course    CDC     Course CDC
A4.1.4.12    Perform aircraft inclement weather
             procedures                                                                                                        -       -        -        -       -         -
             TR: TM U-2S-2-1
A4.1.4.13    Level aircraft                                                                                                    -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.4.14.   Jack aircraft

A4.1.4.14.1 Main landing gear                                                                                                 2b       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.4.14.2 Tail landing gear                                                                                                 2b       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.4.15.   Cart aircraft

A4.1.4.15.1 RG130 cart team member                 *                                                                           -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.4.15.2 RG130 cart team supervisor                      *                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.4.16.   Upload and download ballast

A4.1.4.16.1 RG1124 ballast                                                                                                     -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.4.16.2 RG1125 ballast                                                                                                     -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.4.16.3 RG105 Q-Bay ballast                                                                                               2b       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.4.17    Safe aircraft for maintenance         *                                                                          3c       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.4.18    Wash aircraft                                                                                                     -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.4.19    Lubricate aircraft                                                                                                -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.1.5.      Aircraft weight and balance
             TR: TO 1-1B-50, TM U-2S-5
A4.1.5.1     Complete course J6ANW2AXXX
                                                   *                                                                           -       -        -        -       -         -
             0W1A
A4.1.5.2     Compute weight and balance            *                                                                           -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.5.3     Verify weight and balance                      *                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.1.6       Electrical bonding                                                                                                -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.2.        AIRFRAME SYSTEMS
             TR: TMs U-2S-2-1, -2, and -12,
             U-2S-6WC-1EB
A4.2.1       Airframe components and
                                                                                                                              A        -        -        -       -         -
             construction
A4.2.2       Cadmium precautions                                                                                              A        -        -        -       -         -

A4.2.3.      Remove/install

A4.2.3.1     Nose (RX69-10)                                                                                                   2b       -        -        -       -         -




                                                                               49                                                                                Attachment 4
                                           U-2 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                     2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                     Task                                                                      Training/Information Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References         B        C          A        B          C          D           E               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                                3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level
                                                     5 Level     7        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                               Level      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course CDC       Course    CDC     Course CDC

A4.2.3.2    Doors and fairings                        *                                                                           -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.2.3.3    Hatches                                   *                                                                          3c       -        -        -       -         -

A4.2.3.4    Access panels                             *                                                                          3c       -        -        -       -         -

A4.2.3.5    Aft section                                                                                                           -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.2.3.6    Superpods                                                                                                             -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.2.3.7    Gust locks                                                                                                            -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.2.3.8    Pilot‟s relief tank                                                                                                   -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.2.3.9    Pogo socket                                                                                                           -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.2.4.     Open and close

A4.2.4.1    Doors                                     *                                                                          3c       -        -        -       -         -

A4.2.4.2    Wing folds                                                                                                            -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.2.4.3    Canopy                                    *                                                                          3c       -        -        -       -         -

A4.2.5      Rig E-bay/Q-bay latch mechanisms                                                                                      -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.2.6.     Remove/install flight control, landing
            gear, & throttle system general
            TR: Applicable –2 series TM
A4.2.6.1    Control rods (torque tubes and push
                                                                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -
            pull rods)
A4.2.6.2    Bellcranks and sectors                                                                                                -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.2.6.3    Pulley assemblies                                                                                                     -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.2.6.4    Fairleads and pressure seals                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.2.6.5    Control cables                                                                                                        -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.2.7.     Windscreen and canopy systems
            TR: TMs U-2S-2-2 and U-2ST-2
A4.2.7.1    Determine damage limitations on
                                                                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -
            transparent panels
A4.2.7.2    Rig and adjust canopy hinge release
                                                                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -
            mechanism
A4.2.7.3    Rig and adjust canopy latch release
                                                                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -
            mechanism
A4.2.7.4    Rig and adjust canopy jettison pivot
                                                                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -
            release mechanism
A4.2.7.5    Remove/inspect/install U-2S
                                                                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -
            windscreen assembly
A4.2.7.6    Remove/inspect/install U-2ST aft
                                                                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -
            windscreen assembly



                                                                                  50                                                                                Attachment 4
                                              U-2 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                  2. Core            3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  Task                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       B        C          A        B          C          D           E               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level
                                                   5 Level     7        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                             Level      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course CDC       Course    CDC     Course CDC

A4.2.7.7     Remove/inspect/install canopy                                                                                      -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.3.        LANDING GEAR SYSTEMS
             TR: TMs U-2S-2-1, U-2S-2-3,
             RL 114, and 4T-1-3
A4.3.1       Landing gear components and
                                                                                                                               A        -        -        -       -         -
             system operation
A4.3.2.      Operate landing gear

A4.3.2.1     Position A (ground)                                                                                                -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.3.2.2     Position B (cockpit)                                                                                               -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.3.2.3     Perform normal landing gear
                                                                                                                                -       -        -        -       -         -
             operational check
A4.3.2.4     Perform emergency manual landing
                                                                                                                                -       -        -        -       -         -
             gear operational check
A4.3.2.5     Perform tail landing gear steering
                                                                                                                                -       -        -        -       -         -
             operational check
A4.3.3       Connect tail landing gear scissor                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.3.4.      Service

A4.3.4.1     Landing gear struts                    *                                                                           -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.3.4.2     Tires
                                                    *                                                                          2b       -        -        -       -         -
             TR: TM U-2S-2-1
A4.3.5.      Remove/install

A4.3.5.1.    Wheel and tire assemblies

A4.3.5.1.1   Main landing gear                      *                                                                          2b       -        -        -       -         -

A4.3.5.1.2   Tail landing gear                      *                                                                          2b       -        -        -       -         -

A4.3.5.2     Main landing gear shock strut                                                                                      -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.3.5.3     Main landing gear doors                                                                                            -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.3.5.4     Main landing gear drag strut                                                                                       -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.3.5.5     Main landing gear uplock assembly                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.3.5.6     Tail landing gear shock strut                                                                                      -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.3.5.7     Tail landing gear doors                                                                                            -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.3.5.8     Tail landing gear actuator                                                                                         -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.3.5.9     Tail landing gear drag rod and
                                                                                                                                -       -        -        -       -         -
             retracting crank
A4.3.5.10    Tail landing gear axle                                                                                             -       -        -        -       -         -




                                                                                51                                                                                Attachment 4
                                            U-2 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                   2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                   Task                                                                      Training/Information Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       B        C          A        B          C          D           E               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level
                                                   5 Level     7        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                             Level      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course CDC       Course    CDC     Course CDC

A4.3.5.11   Brake assemblies                                                                                                    -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.3.5.12   Pogos                                   *                                                                          3c       -        -        -       -         -

A4.3.5.13   Wing tip skid pad                                                                                                   -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.3.5.14   Main landing gear actuator                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.3.6.     Repack

A4.3.6.1    Main landing gear shock strut                                                                                       -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.3.6.2    Tail landing gear shock strut                                                                                       -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.3.7      Bleed brake system                                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.3.8      Determine serviceability of aircraft
            tires                                   *                                                                          3c       -        -        -       -         -
            TR: TO 4T-1-3; TM U-2S-2-3
A4.3.9.     Rig and adjust

A4.3.9.1    Main landing gear actuator                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.3.9.2    Tail landing gear actuator                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.3.9.3    Emergency/manual landing gear
                                                                                                                                -       -        -        -       -         -
            release system
A4.3.9.4    Main landing gear doors                                                                                             -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.3.9.5    Tail landing gear steering system                                                                                   -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.3.9.6    Tail landing gear doors                                                                                             -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.3.10     Troubleshoot                                                                                                        -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.4.       UTILITY SYSTEMS
            TR: TMs U-2S-2-6 and U-2S-2-4
A4.4.1      Utility components and system
                                                                                                                               A        -        -        -       -         -
            operation
A4.4.2.     Operate

A4.4.2.1    Accelerometer                                                                                                       -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.4.2.2    Bleed air system                                                                                                    -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.4.2.3    Air conditioning system                                                                                             -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.4.2.4    Defog system                                                                                                        -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.4.2.5    Fire and overheat warning system                                                                                    -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.4.2.6    Oxygen system                                                                                                       -       -        -        -       -         -




                                                                                52                                                                                Attachment 4
                                            U-2 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                    2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                    Task                                                                      Training/Information Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        B        C          A        B          C          D           E               A                 B                 C
                                                                                                                               3 Skill Level      5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level
                                                    5 Level     7        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)      (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                              Level      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course CDC         Course    CDC     Course CDC

A4.4.3.      Inspect

A4.4.3.1     Bleed air system                                                                                                    -           -     -         -       -        -

A4.4.3.2     Air conditioning system                                                                                             -           -     -         -       -        -

A4.4.3.3     Canopy and hatch seal system                                                                                        -       -         -         -       -        -

A4.4.3.4     Defog system                                                                                                        -           -     -         -       -        -

A4.4.3.5     Fire and overheat warning system                                                                                    -           -     -         -       -        -

A4.4.3.6     Oxygen system                                                                                                       -           -     -         -       -        -

A4.4.3.7     Nitrogen system                                                                                                     -           -     -         -       -        -

A4.4.3.8     Pressurization system                                                                                               -       -         -         -       -        -

A4.4.3.9     Accelerometer                                                                                                       -           -     -         -       -        -
A4.4.4.      Oxygen system
             TR: TO 00-25-172; 15X-1-1;
             TMs U-2S-2-6 and U-2S-2-1
A4.4.4.1     Service liquid oxygen (LOX)             *                                                                          2b           -     -         -       -        -

A4.4.4.2     Drain LOX                                                                                                           -           -     -         -       -        -
A4.4.5.      Nitrogen system
             TR: TO 00-25-172; TMs U-2S-2-1
             and U-2S-2-6
A4.4.5.1     Service canopy and hatch seal system    *                                                                          2b           -     -         -       -        -

A4.4.6       Operate canopy and hatch seal system    *                                                                          2b           -     -         -       -        -
A4.5.        FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEM
             TR: U-2S-2-2, U-2ST-2
A4.5.1       Flight control components and system
                                                                                                                                A            -     -         -       -        -
             operation
A4.5.2.      Perform operational checks

A4.5.2.1.    Primary flight controls

A4.5.2.1.1   Rudder control system                                                                                               -           -     -         -       -        -

A4.5.2.1.2   Elevator control system                                                                                             -           -     -         -       -        -

A4.5.2.1.3   Aileron control system                                                                                              -           -     -         -       -        -

A4.5.2.2     Secondary flight controls

A4.5.2.2.1   Horizontal stabilizer control system                                                                                -           -     -         -       -        -




                                                                                 53                                                                                  Attachment 4
                                             U-2 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                 2. Core            3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 Task                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      B        C          A        B          C          D           E               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                             3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level
                                                  5 Level     7        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                            Level      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course CDC       Course    CDC     Course CDC

A4.5.2.2.2   Speed brake control system                                                                                        -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.2.2.3   Wing flap control system                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.2.2.4   Roll spoiler control system                                                                                       -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.2.2.5   Lift spoiler control system                                                                                       -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.2.2.6   Emergency lift spoiler system                                                                                     -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.2.2.7   Stall strip system                                                                                                -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.3.      Remove/install components

A4.5.3.1     Primary flight controls

A4.5.3.1.1   Rudder control surface                                                                                            -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.3.1.2   Elevator control surface                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.3.1.3   Elevator control servo tab                                                                                        -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.3.1.4   Aileron control surface                                                                                           -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.3.1.5   Aileron control tab                                                                                               -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.3.1.6   Aileron shifter actuator                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.3.1.7   Aileron trim tab actuator                                                                                         -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.3.2     Secondary flight controls

A4.5.3.2.1   Speed brake surface                                                                                               -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.3.2.2   Wing flap control surface                                                                                         -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.3.2.3   Wing flap jack screw actuator                                                                                     -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.3.2.4   Wing flap drive gear box                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.3.2.5   Wing flap synchronizer shaft                                                                                      -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.3.2.6   Fixed flap surface                                                                                                -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.3.2.7   Roll spoiler control surface                                                                                      -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.3.2.8   Roll spoiler actuators                                                                                            -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.3.2.9   Lift spoiler surface                                                                                              -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.3.2.10 Lift spoiler actuators                                                                                             -       -        -        -       -         -




                                                                               54                                                                                Attachment 4
                                            U-2 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                       2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                       Task                                                                      Training/Information Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           B        C          A        B          C          D           E               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level
                                                       5 Level     7        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                 Level      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course CDC       Course    CDC     Course CDC

A4.5.3.2.11 Speed brake actuators                                                                                                   -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.3.2.12 Horizontal stabilizer trim actuator                                                                                     -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.3.2.13 Stall strip blade assembly                                                                                              -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.3.2.14 Stall strip control handle                                                                                              -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.4.      Rig and adjust

A4.5.4.1.    Primary flight controls

A4.5.4.1.1   U-2S rudder system                                                                                                     -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.4.1.2   U-2ST rudder system                                                                                                    -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.4.1.3   U-2S elevator system                                                                                                   -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.4.1.4   U-2ST elevator system                                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.4.1.5   U-2S aileron system                                                                                                    -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.4.1.6   U-2ST aileron system                                                                                                   -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.4.2     Secondary flight controls

A4.5.4.2.1   Speed brakes                                                                                                           -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.4.2.2   Wing flap control system                                                                                               -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.4.2.3   Roll spoilers                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.4.2.4   Lift spoilers                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.5.4.2.5   Horizontal stabilizer trim actuator rod
                                                                                                                                    -       -        -        -       -         -
             end play check
A4.5.4.2.6   U-2S stall strip system                                                                                                -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.4.2.7   U-2ST stall strip system                                                                                               -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.4.2.8   Wing flap actuator rod end play check                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.5       Open/close rudder speed rig                                                                                            -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.5.6       Untwist rudder cables                                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.5.7       Assemble/disassemble/lube stall strip
                                                                                                                                    -       -        -        -       -         -
             blade assembly
A4.5.8       Connect and disconnect flap control
                                                                                                                                    -       -        -        -       -         -
             surface
A4.5.9       Lubricate                                                                                                              -       -        -        -       -         -




                                                                                    55                                                                                Attachment 4
                                            U-2 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                  2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  Task                                                                      Training/Information Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      B        C          A        B          C          D           E               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                             3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level
                                                  5 Level     7        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                            Level      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course CDC       Course    CDC     Course CDC

A4.5.10     Troubleshoot                                                                                                       -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.6.       HYDRAULIC SYSTEMS
            TR: TMs U-2S-2-1 and U-2S-2-3
A4.6.1      Hydraulic components and system
                                                                                                                              A        -        -        -       -         -
            operation
A4.6.2.     Service

A4.6.2.1    Reservoir                              *                                                                          2b       -        -        -       -         -

A4.6.2.2    Accumulators                           *                                                                          2b       -        -        -       -         -

A4.6.3      Apply external hydraulic power         *                                                                           -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.6.4.     Remove and install hydraulic
            components
A4.6.4.1    Actuators                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.6.4.2    Accumulators                                                                                                       -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.6.4.3    Lines                                                                                                              -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.6.4.4    Filters (pressure and return)                                                                                      -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.6.4.5    Swivels                                                                                                            -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.6.4.6    Pumps                                                                                                              -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.6.4.7    Reservoir                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.6.4.8    Hydraulic/oil cooler                                                                                               -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.6.4.9    Selector and control valves                                                                                        -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.6.4.10   Power brake control valve                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.6.4.11   Restrictors                                                                                                        -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.6.4.12   Check valves                                                                                                       -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.6.5.     Remove and install hydraulic motors

A4.6.5.1    Emergency lift spoiler                                                                                             -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.6.5.2    Standby AC generator                                                                                               -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.6.5.3    Flap                                                                                                               -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.6.5.4    Stabilizer trim                                                                                                    -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.6.6.     Fill and bleed




                                                                               56                                                                                Attachment 4
                                          U-2 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                    2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                    Task                                                                      Training/Information Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        B        C          A        B          C          D           E               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                               3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level
                                                    5 Level     7        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                              Level      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course CDC       Course    CDC     Course CDC

A4.6.6.1    Hydraulic pump                                                                                                       -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.6.6.2    Lift/roll spoiler system                                                                                             -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.6.6.3    Speed brake system                                                                                                   -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.6.6.4    Stabilizer trim system                                                                                               -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.6.6.5    Flap control system                                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.6.6.6    Emergency lift spoiler auxiliary pump                                                                                -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.6.6.7    Landing gear                                                                                                         -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.6.6.8    Hydraulic power system                                                                                               -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.6.6.9    Standby AC generator motor                                                                                           -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.6.7      Troubleshoot                                                                                                         -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.7        ENGINES
            TR: TMs U-2S-2-1, -2, and -4;
            AFOSH Stds 91-100 and 91-66
A4.7.1      Engine components and system
                                                                                                                                A        -        -        -       -         -
            operation
A4.7.2      Operate engine and subsystems                                                                                        -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.7.3.     Service

A4.7.3.1    Oil system                               *                                                                           -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.7.3.2    AMAD                                     *                                                                          2b       -        -        -       -         -

A4.7.4.     Drain

A4.7.4.1    Oil system                               *                                                                           -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.7.4.2    AMAD                                     *                                                                           -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.7.5.     Remove/install

A4.7.5.1    AMAD                                                                                                                 -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.7.5.2    AMAD starter                                                                                                         -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.7.5.3    AMAD oil cooler                                                                                                      -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.7.5.4    AMAD magnetic chip detector                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.7.5.5    Engine                                                                                                               -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.7.5.6    AMAD temp control valve                                                                                              -       -        -        -       -         -




                                                                                 57                                                                                Attachment 4
                                             U-2 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                  2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  Task                                                                      Training/Information Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      B        C          A        B          C          D           E               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                             3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level
                                                  5 Level     7        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                            Level      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course CDC       Course    CDC     Course CDC

A4.7.5.7     AMAD oil level sensor                                                                                             -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.7.5.8     AMAD pressure switch                                                                                              -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.7.5.9     Engine magnetic chip detector         *                                                                           -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.7.5.10    Engine run screens                                                                                                -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.7.6       Take engine JOAP sample
                                                   *                                                                          3c       -        -        -       -         -
             TR: TOs 42B2-1-9 and 33-1-37
A4.7.7       Use borescope equipment                                                                                           -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.7.8.      AMAD couple and decouple
             procedures
A4.7.8.1     Perform coupling procedures                                                                                       -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.7.8.2     Perform decoupling procedures                                                                                     -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.7.9       Operational check AMAD using
                                                                                                                               -       -        -        -       -         -
             ground motoring cart (RG920-1)
A4.7.10.     Emergency Start System (ESS)

A4.7.10.1    Service ESS nitrogen bottle                                                                                       -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.7.11.     Throttle control system

A4.7.11.1    Rig and adjust

A4.7.11.1.1 U-2S throttle control cable system                                                                                 -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.7.11.1.2 U-2ST throttle control cable system                                                                                -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.7.11.2    Remove/inspect/install

A4.7.11.2.1 U-2S throttle quadrant                                                                                             -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.7.11.2.2 U-2ST forward throttle quadrant                                                                                    -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.7.11.2.3 U-2ST rear throttle quadrant                                                                                       -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.8.        AIRCRAFT FUEL SYSTEMS
             TR: TMs U-2S-2-1, U-2S-2-4, and
             U-2S-2-5; TOs 00-25-172 and 1-1-3;
             Applicable AFOSH Stds.
A4.8.1       Fuel components and system
                                                                                                                              A        -        -        -       -         -
             operation
A4.8.2       Operate internal fuel system                                                                                     2b       -        -        -       -         -

A4.8.3.      Refuel and defuel aircraft

A4.8.3.1     Team member                           *                                                                          3c       -        -        -       -         -




                                                                               58                                                                                Attachment 4
                                             U-2 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                 2. Core            3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 Task                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      B        C          A        B          C          D           E               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                             3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level
                                                  5 Level     7        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                            Level      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course CDC       Course    CDC     Course CDC

A4.8.3.2    Team supervisor                                 *                                                                  -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.8.4      Prepare aircraft for fuel cell
                                                                                                                               -       -        -        -       -         -
            maintenance
A4.8.5      Set electronic fuel counter                                                                                       3c       -        -        -       -         -
A4.9.       ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
            TR: TM U-2S-2-8
A4.9.1      Electrical system components and
                                                                                                                              A        -        -        -       -         -
            system operation
A4.9.2      Connect, apply, and disconnect
                                                   *                                                                          3c       -        -        -       -         -
            external electrical power
A4.9.3.     Operate

A4.9.3.1    Indicator warning lights                                                                                           -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.9.3.2    Electrical power supply system                                                                                     -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.9.3.3    Lighting system (internal and
                                                                                                                               -       -        -        -       -         -
            external)
A4.9.3.4    Avionics processor/multifunction
                                                                                                                              3c       -        -        -       -         -
            displays
A4.9.4.     Remove and install

A4.9.4.1    Light lenses                                                                                                       -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.9.4.2    Lamps and bulbs                                                                                                    -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.9.4.3    Batteries                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.10.      EGRESS SYSTEM
            TR: TMs U-2S-2-1 and U-2S-2-2
A4.10.1     Egress components and system
                                                                                                                              A        -        -        -       -         -
            operation
A4.10.2     Perform cockpit entry procedures       *                                                                          3c       -        -        -       -         -
A4.11.      AEROSPACE GROUND
            EQUIPMENT
            TR: TMs U-2S-2-1 and U-2S-2-2;
            AFOSH Std 91-100; Applicable
            equipment TOs
A4.11.1.    Hydraulic fluid tester RG10-60
            TR: TO 33A2 Series
A4.11.1.1   Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                              2b       -        -        -       -         -
            operate
A4.11.2.    Engine transfer trailer
            TR: TO 35D3 Series
A4.11.2.1   Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                               -       -        -        -       -         -
            operate
A4.11.3.    Fuselage cart (RG130)
            TR: TM U-2S-2-1
A4.11.3.1   Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                               -       -        -        -       -         -
            operate




                                                                               59                                                                                Attachment 4
                                          U-2 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                  2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  Task                                                                      Training/Information Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      B        C          A        B          C          D           E               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                             3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level
                                                  5 Level     7        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                            Level      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course CDC       Course    CDC     Course CDC
A4.11.4.    Aft section cart (RG733)
            TR: TM U-2S-2-1, U-2S-2-2
A4.11.4.1   Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                               -       -        -        -       -         -
            operate
A4.11.5.    Nose removal dolly (RG16)
            TR: TM U-2S-2-2
A4.11.5.1   Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                              2b       -        -        -       -         -
            operate
A4.11.6.    Superpod dollies
            TR: TM U-2S-2-12 Vol I
A4.11.6.1. Fore and aft pod dolly (RG504)
            TR: TM U-2S-2-12 Vol I
A4.11.6.1.1 Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                               -       -        -        -       -         -
            operate
A4.11.6.2. Superpod midbody dolly (RG494)
            TR: TM U-2S-2-12 Vol I
A4.11.6.2.1 Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                               -       -        -        -       -         -
            operate
A4.11.7.    Generator (AM32A-86)
            TR: Applicable TM
A4.11.7.1   Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                   *                                                                          3c       -        -        -       -         -
            operate
A4.11.8.    AM32A-95
            TR: Applicable TM
A4.11.8.1   Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                   *                                                                          3c       -        -        -       -         -
            operate
A4.11.9.    Shelter power unit (EPU-G/E)
            TR: 35CL-4-146-1
A4.11.9.1   Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                               -       -        -        -       -         -
            operate
A4.11.10.   Sulky (RG 38)
            TR: U-2S-2-1
A4.11.10.1 Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                              2b       -        -        -       -         -
            operate
A4.11.11.   Emergency towbar (RG158-2)
            TR: U-2S-2-1
A4.11.11.1 Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                               -       -        -        -       -         -
            operate
A4.11.12.   AMAD ground motoring cart
            (RG290-1)
            TR: U-2S-2-2
A4.11.12.1 Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                               -       -        -        -       -         -
            operate
A4.11.13.   Wing support assembly (RG37)
            TR: TO 35-1-246WC-1
A4.11.13.1   Perform pre-use inspection and use                                                                                -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.11.14.    Wing support stand (RG305)
             TR: TO 35-1-246WC-1
A4.11.14.1   Perform pre-use inspection and use                                                                               3c       -        -        -       -         -

A4.11.15.    MLG jack assembly (RG148)




                                                                               60                                                                                Attachment 4
                                           U-2 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                  2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  Task                                                                      Training/Information Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      B        C          A        B          C          D           E               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                             3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level
                                                  5 Level     7        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                            Level      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course CDC       Course    CDC     Course CDC

A4.11.15.1   Perform pre-use inspection and use                                                                               2b       -        -        -       -         -

A4.11.16.    Q-bay hoist assembly (RG52)

A4.11.16.1   Perform pre-use inspection and use                                                                               2b       -        -        -       -         -

A4.11.17.    Overhead hoist assembly

A4.11.17.1   Perform pre-use inspection and use                                                                                -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.11.18.    Q-bay hatch dolly (RG587)

A4.11.18.1   Perform pre-use inspection and use                                                                                -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.11.19.    Cockpit work stand assembly
             (RG157) service stand (U-2ST)
             (RG580)
A4.11.19.1   Perform pre-use inspection and use                                                                               3c       -        -        -       -         -

A4.11.20.    Mooring equipment

A4.11.20.1   Perform pre-use inspection and use                                                                               3c       -        -        -       -         -
A4.11.21.    Engine run-up kit (RG17) (RG44
             deadman, or RG221 spreader bar)
A4.11.21.1   Perform pre-use inspection and use                                                                                -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.11.22.    Cooling cart (RG2069)

A4.11.22.1   Perform pre-use inspection and use                                                                                -       -        -        -       -         -

A4.11.23.    Cooling cart (RG2080)                                                                                             -       -        -                          -

A4.11.23.1   Perform pre-use inspection and use                                                                                -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.11.24.    DC Generator Ground Power Unit
             (DCGPU)
A4.11.24.1   Perform pre-use inspection and use                                                                                -       -        -        -       -         -
A4.11.25.    Hydraulic test stand
             TR: TO U-2S-2-3
A4.11.25.1   Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                              2b       -        -        -       -         -
             operate
A4.11.26.    Oil servicing carts
             TR: TO 35A17- series as applicable
A4.11.26.1   Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                              2b       -        -        -       -         -
             operate
A4.11.27.    Hydraulic servicing carts
             TR: TO 35D29 Series as applicable
A4.11.27.1   Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                              2b       -        -        -       -         -
             operate
A4.11.28.    LOX servicing equipment
             TR: TOs 37C2-8



                                                                               61                                                                                Attachment 4
                                          U-2 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                 2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 Task                                                                      Training/Information Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     B        C          A        B          C          D           E               A                B                  C
                                                                                                                            3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level     7 Skill Level
                                                 5 Level     7        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                           Level      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course CDC       Course    CDC     Course CDC
A4.11.28.1   Perform pre-use inspection and
             operate                              *                                                                          2b       -        -        -       -         -
             TR: TOs 37C2-8




                                                                              62                                                                                Attachment 4
                                           F-15 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                              2. Core            A5. Certification For OJT                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                              Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   A     B             A        B          C          D          E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC

NOTE 1: Users are responsible for annotating training references pending STS revision.
NOTE 2: All task/knowledge taught in the initial skills course trained in the resident wartime courses.
NOTE 3: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) are the core tasks for either the 5 or 7 skill level and are required
for upgrade. Items marked with an (*/R) are not required by AFRC and ANG for upgrade.

A5.1.        AIRCRAFT GENERAL
             TR: TOs 00-20-1, 00-5-1;
             Applicable 1F-15( )-2-05 series
             TOs
A5.1.1       Avionics components and
             system operation                                                                                          A        -        -        -        -       -
             TR: TO 1F-15( )-2-39GS-00-1
A5.1.2       Weapon system components
                                                                                                                       A        -        -        -        -       -
             TR: TO 1F-15( )-2-94GS-00-1
A5.1.3       Safe aircraft for maintenance       *                                                                     3c       -        -        -        -       -

A5.1.4.      Use E-tools

A5.1.4.1.    Use technical orders                *                                                                     3c       -        -        -        -       -
A5.1.5.      Aircraft and supporting
             maintenance records
A5.1.5.1     Document AFTO Form 781H             *                                                                     3c       -        -        -        -       -

A5.1.5.2     Document AFTO Form 781A             *                                                                     3c       -        -        -        -       -

A5.1.5.3     Document AFTO Form 781J             *                                                                     3c       -        -        -        -       -

A5.1.5.4     Document AFTO Form 781K             *                                                                     3c       -        -        -        -       -
A5.1.5.5     Document DD Form 2026
                                                 *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -
             (JOAP)
A5.1.6.      Aircraft inspections
             TR: TO 00-20-1; Applicable 1F-
             15( )-6 TOs
A5.1.6.1     Periodic inspection concept                                                                               B        -        -        -        -       -

A5.1.6.2     Over G inspections                                                                                        A        -        -        -        -       -

A5.1.6.3.    Perform inspections

A5.1.6.3.1   Preflight                           *                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.1.6.3.2   Basic postflight                    *                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.1.6.3.3   Preflight/basic postflight
                                                 *                                                                     3c       -        -        -        -       -
             combination
A5.1.6.3.4   End of runway                                                                                              -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.1.6.3.5   Launch aircraft                     *                                                                     3c       -        -        -        -       -

A5.1.6.3.6   Recover aircraft                    *                                                                     3c       -        -        -        -       -

A5.1.6.3.7   Thruflight                          *                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -



                                                                                 63                                                                                Attachment 5
                                           F-15 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                              2. Core            A5. Certification For OJT                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                              Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   A     B             A        B          C          D          E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC

A5.1.6.3.8   Quick-turn                                                                                                 -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.1.6.3.9   Hourly postflight                                                                                          -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.1.6.3.10 Periodic                                                                                                    -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.1.6.3.11 Time replacement item                                                                                       -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.1.6.3.12 Calendar                                                                                                    -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.1.6.4.    Perform special inspections

A5.1.6.4.1   Acceptance/transfer                                                                                        -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.1.6.4.2   Over-G                                                                                                     -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.1.6.4.3   Lightning strike                                                                                           -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.1.6.4.4   Engine bay                          *                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.1.6.4.5   Intake and exhaust inspection                                                                              -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.1.7.      Ground handling
             TR: AFI 11-218,
             Applicable AFOSH Standards,
             TO 00-25-172, Applicable 1F-
             15( )-2 series TOs
A5.1.7.1.    Tow aircraft

A5.1.7.1.1   Tow team member                     *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.1.7.1.2   Tow team supervisor                         *                                                              -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.1.7.1.3   Tow vehicle operator                                                                                       -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.1.7.2     Moor aircraft                                                                                              -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.1.7.3.    Jack and level aircraft

A5.1.7.3.1   Jacking team member                 *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.1.7.3.2   Jacking supervisor                          *                                                              -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.1.7.4     Axle jacking                        *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -
A5.1.7.5     De-ice aircraft
             TR: TO 1F-15( )-2-12JG-10-1
                                                                                                                        -       -        -        -        -       -
             and 42C-1-2; 14CFR121.629
             section 121.629
A5.1.7.6     Lubricate aircraft                  *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.1.7.7     Apply external cooling air                                                                                2b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.1.7.8     Remove/install ballast                                                                                     -       -        -        -        -       -



                                                                                 64                                                                                Attachment 5
                                         F-15 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                              2. Core           A5. Certification For OJT                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                              Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   A     B            A        B          C          D          E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                      3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                              5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                  Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC

A5.1.7.9     Wash aircraft                                                                                             -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.2.        AIRFRAME
             TR: Applicable 1F-15( )-3 TOs
A5.2.1       Airframe components and
                                                                                                                      A        -        -        -        -       -
             construction
A5.2.2       Rig doors                                                                                                 -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.2.3       Perform operational check of
                                                                                                                       -       -        -        -        -       -
             doors
A5.2.4.      Remove/install

A5.2.4.1     Windscreen                                                                                                -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.2.4.2     Travel pods                                                                                               -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.2.4.3     Stress panels                      *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.2.4.4     Radome                                                                                                    -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.2.5.      Open/close

A5.2.5.1     Hingeable doors                    *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.2.5.2     Radome                             *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -
A5.2.6.      Canopy
             TR: Applicable 1F-15( )-2-95
             series TOs
A5.2.6.1     Components and system
                                                                                                                      A        -        -        -        -       -
             operation
A5.2.6.2     Perform operational check                                                                                 -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.2.6.3     Rig                                                                                                       -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.2.6.4.    Remove/install

A5.2.6.4.1   Canopy                                                                                                    -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.2.6.4.2   Actuator                                                                                                  -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.2.6.4.3   Accumulator                                                                                               -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.2.6.4.4   Accumulator check valve                                                                                   -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.2.6.4.5   Accumulator pressure gauge                                                                                -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.2.6.4.6   Control handle                                                                                            -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.2.6.4.7   Control cable                                                                                             -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.2.6.4.8   Control valve                                                                                             -       -        -        -        -       -




                                                                                65                                                                                Attachment 5
                                        F-15 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                              2. Core           A5. Certification For OJT                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                              Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   A     B            A        B          C          D          E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                      3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                              5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                  Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC

A5.2.6.4.9   Check valve                                                                                               -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.2.6.4.10 Sequence valve                                                                                             -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.2.6.4.11 Two-way restrictor                                                                                         -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.2.6.4.12 Rain seal                                                                                                  -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.2.6.5.    Operate

A5.2.6.5.1   Manual                             *                                                                     3c       -        -        -        -       -

A5.2.6.5.2   Normal                             *                                                                     3c       -        -        -        -       -

A5.2.6.6.    Service

A5.2.6.6.1   Actuator                           *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.2.6.6.2   Accumulator                        *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -
A5.3.        LANDING GEAR
             TR: 1F-15( )-2-32 series TOs
A5.3.1       Components and system
                                                                                                                      A        -        -        -        -       -
             operation
A5.3.2.      Operate normal systems

A5.3.2.1     Landing gear                       *                                                                     1b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.2.2     Brakes                                                                                                   1b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.2.3     Anti-skid                                                                                                 -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.2.4     Arresting gear                                                                                           1b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.3.      Operate emergency system

A5.3.3.1     Landing gear extension                                                                                   1b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.3.2     Brakes                             *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.3.3     Steering                                                                                                 2b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.4.      Nose wheel steering system

A5.3.4.1     Nose wheel steering components                                                                           A        -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.4.2.    Remove/install

A5.3.4.2.1   Selector valve                                                                                            -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.4.2.2   Shuttle valve                                                                                             -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.4.2.3   Steering unit                      *                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -




                                                                                66                                                                                Attachment 5
                                        F-15 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                              2. Core             A5. Certification For OJT                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                              Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   A     B              A        B          C          D          E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC

A5.3.4.2.4   Steering support housing                                                                                    -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.4.3     Operate nose wheel steering          *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.5.      Rig

A5.3.5.1     Landing gear                                                                                                -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.5.2     Nose wheel steering                                                                                         -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.5.3     Arresting gear                                                                                              -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.6.      Service

A5.3.6.1.    Landing gear struts

A5.3.6.1.1   Nose                                 *                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.6.1.2   Main                                 *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -
A5.3.6.2     Tires
                                                  *                                                                     3c       -        -        -        -       -
             TR: Applicable -2 TOs
A5.3.6.3     Arresting gear actuator              *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.6.4     Arresting gear damper                *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.7.      Remove/install

A5.3.7.1     Main wheel and tire assembly         *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.7.2     Nose wheel and tire assembly         *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.7.3.    Brake system components

A5.3.7.3.1   Brake assemblies                     *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.7.3.2   Brake control cables                                                                                        -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.7.3.3   Dual brake control valve                                                                                    -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.7.3.4   Brake interconnect cable                                                                                    -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.7.3.5   Brake pressure dissipation valve                                                                            -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.3.7.3.6   Brake/steering arming valve
                                                                                                                         -       -        -        -        -       -
             cable
A5.3.7.3.7   Brake/steering emergency cable                                                                              -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.7.3.8   Brake/steering emergency handle                                                                             -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.3.7.3.9   Emergency brake/steering
                                                                                                                         -       -        -        -        -       -
             arming valve
A5.3.7.4.    Landing gear components




                                                                                  67                                                                                Attachment 5
                                           F-15 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                              2. Core            A5. Certification For OJT                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                              Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   A     B             A        B          C          D          E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC

A5.3.7.4.1   NLG strut                                                                                                  -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.7.4.2   NLG actuator                                                                                               -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.7.4.3   NLG door selector valve                                                                                    -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.7.4.4   MLG strut                                                                                                  -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.7.4.5   MLG actuator                                                                                               -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.7.4.6   MLG door selector valve                                                                                    -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.7.4.7   Emergency selector valve                                                                                   -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.7.5.    Arresting gear components

A5.3.7.5.1   Hook shank                                                                                                 -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.7.5.2   Hook actuator                                                                                              -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.7.5.3   Hook uplatch actuator                                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.7.5.4   Hook damper                         *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.7.5.5   Hook fairings                                                                                              -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.3.7.5.6   Hook release and retraction
                                                                                                                        -       -        -        -        -       -
             mechanism
A5.3.7.5.7   Emergency selector valve                                                                                   -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.8       Bleed brakes                        *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -
A5.3.9       Determine serviceability of
             aircraft tires
                                                 *                                                                     3c       -        -        -        -       -
             TR: TO 4T-1-3, Applicable -6
             TOs
A5.3.10      Repack main landing gear strut                                                                             -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.3.11.     Build-up wheel and tire
             assembly
A5.3.11.1    Nose wheel assembly                                                                                        -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.11.2    Main wheel assembly                                                                                        -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.12.     Operate gear doors

A5.3.12.1    Manual                              *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.12.2    Emergency operation                                                                                        -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.3.13      Troubleshoot                                                                                               -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.4.        UTILITIES
             TR: Applicable 1F-15( )-2
             series TOs



                                                                                 68                                                                                Attachment 5
                                        F-15 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                              2. Core           A5. Certification For OJT                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                              Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   A     B            A        B          C          D          E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                      3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                              5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                  Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC
A5.4.1      Components and system
                                                                                                                      A        -        -        -        -       -
            operation
A5.4.2.     Perform operational check

A5.4.2.1    Bleed air system                                                                                           -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.4.2.2    Air conditioning system                                                                                    -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.4.2.3    Pressurization system                                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.4.2.4    Anti-ice/de-ice system                                                                                     -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.4.2.5    Rain removal system                                                                                        -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.4.2.6    Fire/overheat warning system                                                                               -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.4.2.7    Oxygen system quantity                                                                                     -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.4.3      Inspect fire/overheat warning
            system                                                                                                     -       -        -        -        -       -
            TR: 1F-15( )-2-26JG-10-1
A5.4.4      Service Liquid Oxygen (LOX)
            system                              *                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -
            TR: TOs 00-25-172, 15X-1-1
A5.4.5      Remove/inspect/install LOX
                                                *                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -
            converter
A5.5.       FLIGHT CONTROLS
            TR: 1F-15( )-2-27 series TOs
A5.5.1      Component identification and
                                                                                                                      A        -        -        -        -       -
            system operation
A5.5.2      Perform lateral control system
                                                                                                                      2b       -        -        -        -       -
            bleed
A5.5.3.     Remove/install

A5.5.3.1    Aileron                                                                                                    -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.5.3.2    Rudder                              *                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.5.3.3    Stabilator                                                                                                 -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.5.3.4    Speed brake                                                                                                -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.5.3.5    Flap                                                                                                       -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.5.3.6    Pitch Roll Channel Assembly
                                                                                                                       -       -        -        -        -       -
            (PRCA)
A5.5.3.7    Pitch Trim Compensator (PTC)                                                                               -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.5.3.8    Roll Ratio Controller (RRC)                                                                                -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.5.3.9    Mode select                                                                                                -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.5.3.10   Aileron Rudder Interconnect
                                                                                                                       -       -        -        -        -       -
            (ARI)




                                                                                69                                                                                Attachment 5
                                          F-15 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                              2. Core           A5. Certification For OJT                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                              Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   A     B            A        B          C          D          E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                      3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                              5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                  Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC

A5.5.3.11    Yaw Ratio Controller (YRC)                                                                                -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.5.3.12.   Actuators

A5.5.3.12.1 Aileron                                                                                                    -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.5.3.12.2 Rudder                              *                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.5.3.12.3 Stabilator                                  *                                                              -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.5.3.12.4 Speed brake                                                                                                -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.5.3.12.5 Flap                                                                                                       -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.5.3.12.6 Lateral feel trim                                                                                          -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.5.3.12.7 Longitudinal feel trim                                                                                     -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.5.3.12.8 Directional feel trim                                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.5.3.12.9 Yaw trim (F-15E)                                                                                           -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.5.3.13.   Components

A5.5.3.13.1 Switching valves                                                                                           -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.5.3.13.2 Aileron cables/bellcranks                                                                                  -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.5.3.13.3 Rudder cables/bellcranks                                                                                   -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.5.3.13.4 ARI to PRCA interconnect cable                                                                             -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.5.3.13.5 Rudder travel limiter                                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.5.3.13.6 Aileron safety spring cartridge                                                                            -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.5.3.13.7 Rudder control breakout
                                                                                                                       -       -        -        -        -       -
            assembly
A5.5.3.13.8 Stabilator control
                                                                                                                       -       -        -        -        -       -
            cables/bellcranks
A5.5.4.      Rig flight control systems

A5.5.4.1     Longitudinal                                                                                              -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.5.4.2     Lateral                                                                                                   -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.5.4.3     Directional                                                                                               -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.5.5       Troubleshoot                                                                                              -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.6.        HYDRAULICS
             TR: 1F-15( )-2-29 series TOs
A5.6.1       Components and system
                                                                                                                      A        -        -        -        -       -
             operation



                                                                                70                                                                                Attachment 5
                                        F-15 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                              2. Core           A5. Certification For OJT                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                              Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   A     B            A        B          C          D          E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                      3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                              5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                  Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC

A5.6.2.      Service reservoir

A5.6.2.1     PC1/PC2                            *                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.6.2.2     Utility                            *                                                                     3c       -        -        -        -       -

A5.6.3       Drain                                                                                                     -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.6.4       Flush                                                                                                     -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.6.5       Apply hydraulic pressure           *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.6.6       Bleed hydraulic system                     *                                                              -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.6.7.      Remove/install

A5.6.7.1     Lines                              *                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.6.7.2     Pumps                              *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.6.7.3.    Manifolds

A5.6.7.3.1   Pump manifolds                     *                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.6.7.3.2   Accessories manifolds                      *                                                              -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.6.7.4     Reservoirs                                                                                                -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.6.7.5     Cockpit gauges                                                                                            -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.6.7.6.    Valves

A5.6.7.6.1   Check valve                                                                                               -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.6.7.6.2   Thermal control valve                                                                                     -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.6.7.6.3   Utility bypass warm-up valve                                                                              -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.6.7.6.4   Filters/Delta "P"                                                                                         -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.6.7.6.5   Pressure transmitter               *                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.6.7.6.6   Pressure switch                                                                                           -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.6.8       Troubleshoot                                                                                              -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.7.        ENGINES
             TR: TO 1F-15( )-2-71 series
             TOs, AFOSH Standards 91-66
             and 91-100
A5.7.1       Components and system
                                                                                                                      A        -        -        -        -       -
             operation
A5.7.2       Engine monitoring system                                                                                  -       -        -        -        -       -




                                                                                71                                                                                Attachment 5
                                          F-15 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                              2. Core            A5. Certification For OJT                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                              Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   A     B             A        B          C          D          E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC

A5.7.3       Operate engine                                                                                             -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.7.4.      Air induction
             TR: TO 1F-15( )-2-76 series
             TOs
A5.7.4.1     Components and system
                                                                                                                       A        -        -        -        -       -
             operation
A5.7.4.2.    Remove/install

A5.7.4.2.1   First ramp actuator                                                                                        -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.4.2.2   Diffuser ramp actuator                                                                                     -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.4.2.3   Bypass door actuator                                                                                       -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.4.2.4   First ramp                                                                                                 -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.4.2.5   Second ramp                                                                                                -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.4.2.6   Third ramp                                                                                                 -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.4.2.7   Diffuser ramp                                                                                              -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.4.2.8   Bypass door                                                                                                -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.4.3     Perform operational check                                                                                  -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.4.4     Rig                                                                                                        -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.4.5     Troubleshoot                                                                                               -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.7.5.      Oil system
             TR: TOs 1F-15( )-2-05, -12
             series, -6 TO
A5.7.5.1     Inspect magnetic chip detectors     *                                                                     3c       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.5.2     Service                             *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -
A5.7.5.3     Joint Oil Analysis Program
                                                                                                                        -       -        -        -        -       -
             (JOAP)
A5.7.5.4     Take JOAP sample                    *                                                                     3c       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.6.      Remove/install

A5.7.6.1     Engine                                                                                                     -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.7.      Throttle system

A5.7.7.1     Remove/install components

A5.7.7.1.1   Throttle quadrant (F-15C)                                                                                  -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.7.1.2   Throttle quadrant (F-15D/E)                                                                                -       -        -        -        -       -




                                                                                 72                                                                                Attachment 5
                                           F-15 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                              2. Core            A5. Certification For OJT                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                              Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   A     B             A        B          C          D          E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC

A5.7.7.1.3   One piece throttle cable                                                                                   -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.7.1.4   Two piece throttle cable                                                                                   -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.7.1.5   Throttle interconnect cable                                                                                -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.7.1.6   Throttle sector box                                                                                        -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.7.7.2     Inspect components
                                                                                                                        -       -        -        -        -       -
             TR: Applicable -6 TOs
A5.7.7.3     Rig throttles                                                                                              -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.7.4     Adjust throttle detent                                                                                     -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.7.8.      Engine starting system
             TR: Applicable 1F-15( )-2-80, -
             81, -82, and -83 series TOs
A5.7.8.1     Components and system
                                                                                                                       A        -        -        -        -       -
             operation
A5.7.8.2     Perform operational check                                                                                  -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.8.3     Prime Jet Fuel Starter (JFS)                                                                               -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.8.4.    Service

A5.7.8.4.1   JFS accumulator                     *                                                                     3c       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.8.4.2   Central Gear Box (CGB)              *                                                                     3c       -        -        -        -       -
A5.7.8.4.3   Aircraft Mounted Accessory
                                                 *                                                                     3c       -        -        -        -       -
             Drives (AMAD)
A5.7.8.5.    Remove/install

A5.7.8.5.1   JFS                                 *                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.8.5.2   JFS system relays                                                                                          -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.8.5.3   JFS fuel filter                                                                                            -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.8.5.4   JFS fuel control                                                                                           -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.8.5.5   JFS 2-speed switch                                                                                         -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.8.5.6   JFS generator control unit                                                                                 -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.8.5.7   JFS ignition components                                                                                    -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.8.5.8   JFS fuel accumulator                                                                                       -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.8.5.9   JFS pressure gauge                                                                                         -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.8.5.10 JFS hand pump                                                                                               -       -        -        -        -       -




                                                                                 73                                                                                Attachment 5
                                         F-15 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                              2. Core            A5. Certification For OJT                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                              Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   A     B             A        B          C          D          E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC

A5.7.8.5.11 JFS accumulator bottles                                                                                     -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.8.5.12 JFS hydraulic manifold                                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.8.5.13 Hydraulic pressure intensifier                                                                              -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.8.5.14 JFS control handle                                                                                          -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.8.5.15 JFS control cable                                                                                           -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.8.5.16 CGB                                  *                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.8.5.17 CGB chip detector                                                                                           -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.7.8.5.18 CGB oil filter and differential
                                                                                                                        -       -        -        -        -       -
            pressure (Delta P) indicator
A5.7.8.5.19 CGB isolation decoupler              *                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.7.8.5.20 CGB permanent magnet
                                                                                                                        -       -        -        -        -       -
            generator
A5.7.8.5.21 CGB hydraulic start motor                                                                                   -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.8.5.22 CGB hydraulic clutch control                                                                                -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.7.8.5.23 CGB oil pump and switch
                                                                                                                        -       -        -        -        -       -
            assembly
A5.7.8.5.24 AMAD                                 *                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.8.5.25 AMAD chip detector                                                                                          -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.7.8.5.26 AMAD oil filter and differential
                                                 *                                                                     3c       -        -        -        -       -
            pressure indicator
A5.7.8.5.27 AMAD pawl carrier                    *                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.7.8.5.28 AMAD oil pump and switch
                                                                                                                        -       -        -        -        -       -
            assembly
A5.7.8.5.29 AMAD encased seals                          */R                                                             -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.8.5.30 AMAD carbon seals                           */R                                                             -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.8.5.31 AMAD pressure fill fitting                                                                                  -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.8.5.32 AMAD overflow drain                                                                                         -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.8.5.33 AMAD sight gauge                                                                                            -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.8.5.34 AMAD Power Take-off (PTO)            *                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.7.8.6     Troubleshoot                                                                                               -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.7.8.7.    Operate secondary power system
             test set
A5.7.8.7.1   Static test                                 *                                                              -       -        -        -        -       -




                                                                                 74                                                                                Attachment 5
                                              F-15 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                              2. Core               A5. Certification For OJT                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                              Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   A     B                A        B          C          D          E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                          3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                  5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC

A5.7.8.7.2   Dynamic test                                   *                                                              -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.8.        FUELS
             TR: Applicable AFOSH
             Standards, TO 00-25-172; 1F-
             15( )-2-05, -12 and -28 series
             TOs
A5.8.1       Components and system
                                                                                                                          A        -        -        -        -       -
             operation
A5.8.2.      Perform operational check

A5.8.2.1     Internal fuel system                                                                                          -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.8.2.2     External fuel system                                                                                          -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.8.3       Refuel aircraft (normal) power
                                                    *                                                                     3c       -        -        -        -       -
             off
A5.8.4.      Refuel aircraft power-on

A5.8.4.1     Team member                           */R                                                                     -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.8.4.2     Team supervisor                               */R                                                             -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.8.5.      Refuel aircraft (engine operating)

A5.8.5.1     Team member                                                                                                   -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.8.5.2     Team supervisor                                                                                               -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.8.6.      Defuel aircraft power-off

A5.8.6.1     Team member                                                                                                   -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.8.6.2     Team supervisor                                                                                               -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.8.7.      Defuel aircraft power-on

A5.8.7.1     Team member                            *                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.8.7.2     Team supervisor                                *                                                              -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.8.8       Prepare aircraft for fuel cell
                                                                                                                           -       -        -        -        -       -
             maintenance
A5.8.9.      External fuel tanks

A5.8.9.1     Remove/inspect/install                 *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.8.9.2     Perform operational check              *                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.8.9.3     Alternate defuel                                                                                              -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.8.9.4     Inspect and use 600 gallon tank
                                                    *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -
             dolly




                                                                                    75                                                                                Attachment 5
                                         F-15 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                              2. Core           A5. Certification For OJT                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                              Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   A     B            A        B          C          D          E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                      3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                              5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                  Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC
A5.8.10.     Air-to-Air Refueling (AAR)
             system
A5.8.10.1    Components and system
                                                                                                                      A        -        -        -        -       -
             operation
A5.8.10.2.   Remove/install

A5.8.10.2.1 Door                                                                                                       -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.8.10.2.2 Open/close linkage                                                                                         -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.8.10.2.3 Actuator                                                                                                   -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.8.10.3    Perform operational check                                                                                 -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.8.10.4    Rig                                                                                                       -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.8.11.     Conformal fuel tanks

A5.8.11.1    Remove/inspect/install             *                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.8.11.2    Defuel/depuddle                                                                                           -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.8.11.3    Perform operational check                                                                                 -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.8.11.4    Inspect and use conformal fuel
                                                *                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -
             tank dolly
A5.8.11.5    Inspect and use conformal fuel
                                                *                                                                      -       -        -        -        -       -
             tank hard stands
A5.9.        ELECTRICAL
             TR: TO 1F-15( )-2-24 and -33
             series TOs
A5.9.1       Components and system
                                                                                                                      A        -        -        -        -       -
             operation
A5.9.2.      Operate

A5.9.2.1     Internal lighting                  *                                                                     3c       -        -        -        -       -

A5.9.2.2     External lighting                  *                                                                     3c       -        -        -        -       -

A5.9.2.3     Indicator/warning lights           *                                                                     3c       -        -        -        -       -

A5.9.2.4     Emergency generator                                                                                       -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.9.3.      Remove/install

A5.9.3.1.    Light lenses/bulbs

A5.9.3.1.1   Landing light                      *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.9.3.1.2   Taxi light                         *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.9.3.1.3   Stab anti-collision light                                                                                 -       -        -        -        -       -




                                                                                76                                                                                Attachment 5
                                            F-15 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                              2. Core             A5. Certification For OJT                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                              Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   A     B              A        B          C          D          E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC

A5.9.3.1.4   Wing anti-collision light                                                                                   -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.9.3.1.5   Wing position light                  *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.9.3.1.6   Stab position light                  *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.9.3.1.7   Stab floodlight                                                                                             -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.9.3.1.8   AAR door floodlight                                                                                         -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.9.3.2     Integrated Drive Generator
                                                                                                                         -       -        -        -        -       -
             (IDG)
A5.9.3.3     Emergency generator                                                                                         -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.9.3.4     Emergency generator/stab
                                                                                                                         -       -        -        -        -       -
             selector valve
A5.9.4.      IDG

A5.9.4.1     Service                              *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -

A5.9.4.2     Drain                                                                                                       -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.9.4.3     Flush                                                                                                       -       -        -        -        -       -

A5.9.4.4     Replace oil filter/Delta "P"                                                                                -       -        -        -        -       -
A5.9.5       Connect/apply/disconnect
                                                  *                                                                     3c       -        -        -        -       -
             external electrical power
A5.10.       EGRESS
             TR: Applicable 1F-15( )-2-05
             and -95 series TOs
A5.10.1      Components and system
                                                                                                                        A        -        -        -        -       -
             operation
A5.10.2.     Perform cockpit entry
             procedures
A5.10.2.1    Normal                               *                                                                     3c       -        -        -        -       -

A5.10.2.2    Alternate                            *                                                                     3c       -        -        -        -       -
A5.11.       AEROSPACE GROUND
             EQUIPMENT
             TR: AFOSH STD 91-66 as
             applicable
A5.11.1.     Hydraulic test stand
             TR: TO 33A2 or 35D2 series as
             applicable
A5.11.1.1    Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                  *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -
             operate
A5.11.2.     Air conditioning units
             TR: TO 35E9 series as
             applicable
A5.11.2.1    Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                        2b       -        -        -        -       -
             operate




                                                                                  77                                                                                Attachment 5
                                        F-15 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                              2. Core           A5. Certification For OJT                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                              Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   A     B            A        B          C          D          E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                      3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                              5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                  Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC
A5.11.3.    Oil servicing carts
            TR: TO 35A17 series as
            applicable
A5.11.3.1   Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -
            operate
A5.11.4.    Hydraulic servicing carts
A5.11.4.1   Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                *                                                                     2b       -        -        -        -       -
            operate
A5.11.5.    Engine Removal/Installation (R
            and I) Trailer
            TR: TO 35D3 Series
A5.11.5.1   Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                       -       -        -        -        -       -
            operate
A5.11.6.    Engine transfer trailer
            TR: TO 35D3 Series
A5.11.6.1   Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                       -       -        -        -        -       -
            operate
A5.11.7.    Canopy crane
A5.11.7.1   Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                       -       -        -        -        -       -
            operate
A5.11.8.    LOX servicing equipment
            TR: TOs 37C2-8, 15X-1-1
A5.11.8.1   Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                       -       -        -        -        -       -
            operate




                                                                                78                                                                                Attachment 5
                                           F-16 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                   2. Core             3. Certification For OJT                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        A     B              A        B          C          D       E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                          3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                   5 level   7 level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                         Start   Complete   Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC

NOTE 1: Users are responsible for annotating training references pending STS revision.
NOTE 2: All task/knowledge taught in the initial skills course trained in the resident wartime courses.
NOTE 3: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) are the core tasks for either the 5 or 7 skill level and are required
for upgrade. Items marked with an (*/R) are not required by AFRC and ANG for upgrade.

A6.1.         AIRCRAFT GENERAL
A6.1.1.       Corrosion control program
              TR: TOs 1-1-691S and 1F-16( )-23
A6.1.1.1      Wash aircraft                                                                                               -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.1.2      Lubricate after wash                                                                                        -        -        -        -        -       -
A6.1.2.       Ground handling
              TR: AFI 11-218; AFOSH STD 91-
              100; TO 00-25-172, applicable 1F-
              16( )-2 and -6 series TOs
A6.1.2.1.     Tow aircraft

A6.1.2.1.1    Team member                            *                                                                   2b        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.2.1.2    Team supervisor                                  *                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.2.1.3    Vehicle operator                                                                                            -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.2.2      Moor aircraft                                                                                              2b        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.2.3.     Jack aircraft

A6.1.2.3.1    Axle jack                              *                                                                   2b        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.2.3.2    Tripod jack team member                *                                                                   2b        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.2.3.3    Team supervisor                                  *                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.2.4      Assist weighing and leveling                                                                                -        -        -        -        -       -
A6.1.2.5      Safe aircraft for maintenance
                                                     *                                                                   3c        -        -        -        -       -
              TR: Applicable -2 TOs
A6.1.3.       Aerospace vehicle inspections
              TR: TOs 00-20-1 and 1F-16( )-6-( )
A6.1.3.1      Phase inspection concept                                                                                    A        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.3.2.     Perform inspection

A6.1.3.2.1    Preflight                              *                                                                    -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.3.2.2    Thruflight                             *                                                                    -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.3.2.3    Basic postflight                       *                                                                    -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.3.2.4    Preflight/basic postflight             *                                                                   3c        -        -        -        -       -




                                                                                  79                                                                                  Attachment 6
                                        F-16 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                   2. Core             3. Certification For OJT                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        A     B              A        B          C          D       E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                          3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                   5 level   7 level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                         Start   Complete   Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC

A6.1.3.2.5    Walkaround                             *                                                                    -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.3.2.6    End of runway                                                                                               -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.3.2.7    Launch aircraft                        *                                                                   3c        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.3.2.8    Recover aircraft                       *                                                                   3c        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.3.2.9    Quick turn                                                                                                  -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.3.3.     Perform special inspections

A6.1.3.3.1    Acceptance                                                                                                  -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.3.3.2    Hard landing inspection                                                                                     -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.3.3.3    Post barrier engagement inspection                                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.3.3.4    Engine bay                             *                                                                    -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.3.3.5    Engine -6                                        *                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.3.3.6    Over G                                                                                                      -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.3.3.7    Perform throttle inspection            *                                                                   2b        -        -        -        -       -
A6.1.4.       Perform concurrent servicing
              operation
A6.1.4.1      Supervisor                                                                                                  -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.4.2      Team member                                                                                                 -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.5.       Technical orders

A6.1.5.1      Midas TO numbering system                                                                                   A        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.5.2      Use technical orders                   *                                                                   3c        -        -        -        -       -
A6.1.6.       Aircraft and supporting
              maintenance records
A6.1.6.1      Document AFTO Form 781H                *                                                                   3c        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.6.2      Document AFTO Form 781A                *                                                                   3c        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.6.3      Document AFTO Form 781J                *                                                                   3c        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.6.4      Document AFTO Form 781K                *                                                                   3c        -        -        -        -       -

A6.1.6.5      Document DD Form 2026                  *                                                                    -        -        -        -        -       -
A6.2.         AIRFRAME SYSTEMS
              TR: TOs 1F-16( )-2-00GV-00-1,
              1F-16( )-2-12JG-00-2, -52JG and -
              53JG




                                                                                  80                                                                                  Attachment 6
                                         F-16 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                  2. Core             3. Certification For OJT                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                      Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       A     B              A        B          C          D       E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                  5 level   7 level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC
A6.2.1        Airframe components and
                                                                                                                         A        -        -        -        -       -
              construction
A6.2.2.       Remove/install

A6.2.2.1      Hingeable doors                                                                                            -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.2.2.2      Panels and stress panels              *                                                                    -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.2.2.3      Travel pods                                                                                                -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.2.2.4      Throttle quadrant                                                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.2.2.5      Interconnect cable                                                                                         -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.2.2.6      Rack assembly                                                                                              -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.2.3.       Open and close

A6.2.3.1      Hingeable doors                       *                                                                   2b        -        -        -        -       -

A6.2.3.2      Radome                                                                                                     -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.2.4        Clean canopy                          *                                                                   2b        -        -        -        -       -

A6.2.5        Polish canopy                                                                                              -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.2.6        Rig throttle                                    *                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -
A6.3.         LANDING GEAR SYSTEM
              TR: 1F-16( )-2-32 series TOs
A6.3.1        Landing gear components and
                                                                                                                         A        -        -        -        -       -
              system operation
A6.3.2        Alternate landing gear components
                                                                                                                         A        -        -        -        -       -
              and system operation
A6.3.3        Braking components and system
                                                                                                                         A        -        -        -        -       -
              operation
A6.3.4        Arresting hook components and
                                                                                                                         A        -        -        -        -       -
              system operation
A6.3.5        Nose wheel steering (NWS)
                                                                                                                         A        -        -        -        -       -
              components and system operation
A6.3.6.       Remove/install

A6.3.6.1      MLG retract actuator                                                                                       -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.6.2      Downlock actuator                                                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.6.3      Uplock mechanism                                                                                           -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.6.4      Main door actuator                              *                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.6.5      NLG extend/retract actuator                                                                                -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.6.6      Nose door actuator                                                                                         -        -        -        -        -       -




                                                                                 81                                                                                  Attachment 6
                                        F-16 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                     2. Core             3. Certification For OJT                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                         Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                     Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          A     B              A        B          C          D       E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                            3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                     5 level   7 level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete   Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC

A6.3.6.7      Uplock roller                                                                                                 -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.6.8      Main shock strut assembly                          *                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.6.9      Nose shock strut assembly                                                                                     -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.6.10     Tension strut assembly                                                                                        -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.6.11     Drag brace assembly                                                                                           -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.6.12     LDG selector valve                                                                                            -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.6.13     Door sequence valve                                                                                           -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.6.14     Axle assembly                                                                                                 -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.6.15     Door assembly                                                                                                 -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.6.16     Spin stop pad                                                                                                 -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.6.17     Torque link assembly                                                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.6.18.    Wheel and tire assembly

A6.3.6.18.1   Main                                     *                                                                   2b        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.6.18.2   Nose                                     *                                                                   2b        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.6.19     Brake assembly                           *                                                                   2b        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.6.20     Brake control valve                                                                                           -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.6.21     Alternate landing gear control valve                                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.6.22     Arresting hook pneumatic actuator                                                                             -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.6.23     Arresting hook assembly                                                                                       -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.6.24     MLG pneumatic charging valve                                                                                 2b        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.6.25     Rudder pedal assembly                                                                                         -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.6.26     NWS actuator                                                                                                  -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.7.       Adjust

A6.3.7.1      Uplock mechanism                                   *                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.7.2      Arresting hook shank bumper              *                                                                    -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.8.       Service

A6.3.8.1      Shock strut                              *                                                                   2b        -        -        -        -       -




                                                                                    82                                                                                  Attachment 6
                                          F-16 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                   2. Core             3. Certification For OJT                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        A     B              A        B          C          D       E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                          3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                   5 level   7 level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                         Start   Complete   Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC
A6.3.8.2      Alternate landing gear/arresting
                                                                                                                         2b        -        -        -        -       -
              hook pneumatic reservoir
A6.3.8.3      Tires                                  *                                                                   3c        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.9        Determine serviceability of tires      *                                                                   3c        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.10.      Perform operational check

A6.3.10.1.    Basic landing gear system

A6.3.10.1.1   Team member                                                                                                1a        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.10.1.2   Supervisor                                       *                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -
A6.3.11.      Perform alternate landing gear
              system check
A6.3.11.1     Team member                                                                                                 -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.3.11.2     Supervisor                                                                                                  -        -        -        -        -       -
A6.3.12       Perform arresting hook operational
                                                                                                                         2b        -        -        -        -       -
              check
A6.3.13       Troubleshoot                                                                                                -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.4.         UTILITIES
A6.4.1.       Fire/overheat detection system
              TR: 1F-16( )-2-26 series TOs
A6.4.1.1      Fire and overheat detection
                                                                                                                          A        -        -        -        -       -
              components and system operation
A6.4.1.2      Perform fire and overheat
                                                                                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -
              operational check
A6.4.2.       Fuel inerting system
              TR: 1F-16( )-2-26 series TOs
A6.4.2.1      Fuel inerting system components
                                                                                                                          A        -        -        -        -       -
              and operation
A6.4.2.2      Remove/install halon reservoir                                                                             2b        -        -        -        -       -
A6.4.3.       Liquid oxygen system (LOX)
              TR: TOs 00-25-172 , 1F-16( )-2-
              12JG-00-1 and 1F-16( )-2-35 series
              TOs
A6.4.3.1      Liquid oxygen components and
                                                                                                                          A        -        -        -        -       -
              system operation
A6.4.3.2      Service LOX converter                  *                                                                   2b        -        -        -        -       -

A6.4.3.3      Remove/install converter               *                                                                   2b        -        -        -        -       -
A6.5.         FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEM
              TR: 1F-16( )-2-27 series TOs
A6.5.1        Components and system operation                                                                             A        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.2.       Remove/install




                                                                                  83                                                                                  Attachment 6
                                         F-16 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                 2. Core             3. Certification For OJT                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                 Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A     B              A        B          C          D       E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                 5 level   7 level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                       Start   Complete   Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC

A6.5.2.1      Leading edge flap                                                                                         -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.2.2      Rotary actuator                                                                                           -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.2.3      Torque shaft                         *                                                                    -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.2.4      Asymmetry brake                                *                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.2.5      Power drive unit (PDU)                                                                                    -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.2.6      Command servo assembly                         *                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.2.7      Angle gearbox                                                                                             -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.2.8      Rudder assembly                                                                                           -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.2.9      Horizontal stabilizer assembly                 *                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.2.10     Stabilizer bearing set                                                                                    -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.2.11     Flaperon assembly                                                                                         -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.2.12     Speedbrake assembly                                                                                       -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.2.13     Speedbrake actuator                                                                                       -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.2.14     Speedbrake control valve                                                                                  -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.2.15.    Integrated Servo Actuators (ISA)

A6.5.2.15.1   Rudder                                                                                                    -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.2.15.2   Flaperon                                                                                                  -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.2.15.3   Horizontal stabilizer                          *                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.3.       Service

A6.5.3.1      PDU oil                                                                                                   -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.3.2      Flight control accumulator                                                                               2b        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.4.       Rig

A6.5.4.1      Asymmetry brakes                               *                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.4.2      Leading edge flaps                             *                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.4.3      Command servo                                  *                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.4.4      Flaperon                                                                                                  -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.4.5      Horizontal stabilizer                          *                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -




                                                                                84                                                                                  Attachment 6
                                          F-16 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core             3. Certification For OJT                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A     B              A        B          C          D       E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                5 level   7 level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC

A6.5.4.6      Rudder                                                                                                   -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.5.       Perform operational check

A6.5.5.1      Leading edge flaps                            *                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.5.2      Rudder                                                                                                   -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.5.3      Horizontal stabilizer                         *                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.5.4      Flaperons                                                                                                -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.5.5      Speed brakes                                                                                             -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.5.6      Manual trim                                                                                              -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.5.7      System self-test                                                                                         -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.5.6        Troubleshoot                                                                                             -        -        -        -        -       -
A6.6.         HYDRAULIC POWER
              SYSTEM
              TR: 1F-16( )-2-29 series TOs
A6.6.1        Hydraulic components and system
                                                                                                                       A        -        -        -        -       -
              operation
A6.6.2.       Remove/install

A6.6.2.1      Pump                                          *                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.6.2.2      Manifold assembly                                                                                        -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.6.2.3      Transmitter                                                                                              -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.6.2.4      Filter/assembly                     *                                                                   2b        -        -        -        -       -

A6.6.2.5      Delta P                             *                                                                   2b        -        -        -        -       -

A6.6.2.6      Hydraulic reservoir                                                                                      -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.6.2.7      Reservoir accumulators                                                                                   -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.6.2.8      Flight control accumulators                                                                              -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.6.2.9      Cockpit indicators                                                                                       -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.6.2.10     Accumulator pressure gauges                                                                              -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.6.3        Service reservoir accumulator       *                                                                   2b        -        -        -        -       -

A6.6.4.       Hydraulic reservoir

A6.6.4.1      Drain                                                                                                    -        -        -        -        -       -




                                                                               85                                                                                  Attachment 6
                                          F-16 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core             3. Certification For OJT                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A     B              A        B          C          D       E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                5 level   7 level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC

A6.6.4.2      Flush                                                                                                    -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.6.4.3      Bleed                               *                                                                    -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.6.4.4      Service (-12JG)                     *                                                                   3c        -        -        -        -       -

A6.6.4.5      Service (Engine operating)          *                                                                    -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.6.5        Obtain fluid sample                                                                                      -        -        -        -        -       -
A6.6.6        Perform general bleed and leak
                                                  *                                                                   2b        -        -        -        -       -
              check
A6.6.7        Troubleshoot                                                                                             -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.7.         ENGINES
              TR: AFOSH STDs 91-100 and
              91-66; 1F-16( )-2-70 series TOs

A6.7.1.       Engine (General Electric)
A6.7.1.1      Engine components and system
                                                                                                                       A        -        -        -        -       -
              operation
A6.7.1.2.     Remove/install

A6.7.1.2.1    Engine                                        *                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.7.1.2.2    Fuel filter                                                                                              -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.7.1.2.3    Oil filters                                                                                              -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.7.1.2.4    Signal data converter                                                                                    -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.7.1.2.5    Anti-ice probe                                                                                           -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.7.1.3      Inspect and clean flame sensor      *                                                                   2b        -        -        -        -       -

A6.7.1.4      Service engine oil                  *                                                                    -        -        -        -        -       -
A6.7.1.5      Inspect engine magnetic chip
              detector(s)                         *                                                                    -        -        -        -        -       -
              TR: Applicable -2 TOs
A6.7.1.6.     Perform engine run
A6.7.1.6.1    Intake and exhaust inspection
                                                                                                                       -        -        -        -        -       -
              (70JG)
A6.7.1.6.2    Engine run operation (low power
                                                                                                                       -        -        -        -        -       -
              high power/restrained)
A6.7.2.       Engine (Pratt and Whitney)
A6.7.2.1      Engine components and system
                                                                                                                       A        -        -        -        -       -
              operation
A6.7.2.2.     Remove/install

A6.7.2.2.1    Fuel filter                                                                                              -        -        -        -        -       -




                                                                               86                                                                                  Attachment 6
                                         F-16 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core             3. Certification For OJT                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                        Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                    Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References         A     B              A        B          C          D       E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                    5 level   7 level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete   Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC

A6.7.2.2.2    Oil filter                                                                                                   -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.7.2.2.3    Engine                                            *                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.7.2.2.4    Anti-ice probe                                                                                               -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.7.2.3      Service engine oil                      *                                                                   3c        -        -        -        -       -
A6.7.2.4      Inspect engine pre-installation
                                                                *                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -
              (Eng-6)
A6.7.2.5.     Perform engine run
A6.7.2.5.1    Engine intake and exhaust
                                                                                                                           -        -        -        -        -       -
              inspection (70JG)
A6.7.2.5.2    Engine run operation (low power
                                                                                                                           -        -        -        -        -       -
              high power/restrained)
A6.8.         FUEL SYSTEM
              TR: Applicable AFOSH
              Standards; 1F-16( )-2-28 series
              TOs
A6.8.1        Fuel components and system
                                                                                                                           A        -        -        -        -       -
              operation
A6.8.2        Inflight refuel components and
                                                                                                                           A        -        -        -        -       -
              system operation
A6.8.3.       Remove/install

A6.8.3.1      Wing tank assembly                      *                                                                   2b        -        -        -        -       -

A6.8.3.2      Centerline tank                         *                                                                   2b        -        -        -        -       -

A6.8.3.3      Slipway door assembly                                                                                        -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.8.3.4      Slipway door actuator                                                                                        -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.8.3.5      Slipway door control valve                                                                                   -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.8.4        Adjust slipway door                                                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -
A6.8.5        Refuel aircraft without external
                                                      *                                                                   3c        -        -        -        -       -
              power
A6.8.6.       Refuel aircraft with external power

A6.8.6.1      Team member                                                                                                  -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.8.6.2      Supervisor                                                                                                   -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.8.7.       Refuel aircraft (engine operating)

A6.8.7.1      Team member                                                                                                  -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.8.7.2      Supervisor                                                                                                   -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.8.7.3      Evaluator/trainer                                                                                            -        -        -        -        -       -




                                                                                   87                                                                                  Attachment 6
                                          F-16 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core             3. Certification For OJT                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                        Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                    Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References         A     B              A        B          C          D       E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                    5 level   7 level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete   Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC

A6.8.8.       Defuel aircraft

A6.8.8.1      Team member                             *                                                                    -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.8.8.2      Supervisor                                        *                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.8.9.       Over-the-wing refuel

A6.8.9.1      Team member                                                                                                  -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.8.9.2      Supervisor                                                                                                   -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.8.10.      External tanks defueling (suction)

A6.8.10.1     Team member                                                                                                  -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.8.10.2     Supervisor                                                                                                   -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.8.11.      Perform operational check

A6.8.11.1     Internal transfer                                                                                            -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.8.11.2     External transfer                       *                                                                    -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.8.11.3     Aerial refuel slipway door assembly                                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -
A6.9.         ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
              TR: 1F-16( )-2-24 series TOs
A6.9.1        Electrical components and system
                                                                                                                           A        -        -        -        -       -
              operation
A6.9.2        Connect/apply external power            *                                                                   3c        -        -        -        -       -

A6.9.3        Disconnect external power               *                                                                   3c        -        -        -        -       -

A6.9.4.       Remove/install

A6.9.4.1      Batteries                               *                                                                   2b        -        -        -        -       -

A6.9.4.2      Light lenses                                                                                                2b        -        -        -        -       -

A6.9.4.3      Light lamps                                                                                                 2b        -        -        -        -       -

A6.9.5.       Operate

A6.9.5.1      Interior lighting                                                                                           2b        -        -        -        -       -

A6.9.5.2      Exterior lighting                                                                                           2b        -        -        -        -       -

A6.9.6        Service constant speed drive (CSD)      *                                                                   2b        -        -        -        -       -
A6.9.7        Remove and replace CSD system
                                                                                                                           -        -        -        -        -       -
              filters
A6.10.        EGRESS SYSTEM
              TR: 1F-16( )-2-95 series TOs



                                                                                   88                                                                                  Attachment 6
                                           F-16 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core              3. Certification For OJT                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A     B               A        B          C          D       E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                 5 level   7 level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                       Start   Complete   Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC
A6.10.1       Egress components and system
                                                                                                                        A        -        -        -        -       -
              operation
A6.10.2.      Operate canopy

A6.10.2.1     Electrically                         *                                                                   3c        -        -        -        -       -

A6.10.2.2     Manually                                                                                                  -        -        -        -        -       -
A6.11.        ACCESSORY DRIVE AND
              ENGINE START SYSTEM
              TR: 1F-16( )-2-80 and 83 series
              TOs
A6.11.1       Accessory Drive Gearbox (ADG)
                                                                                                                        B        -        -        -        -       -
              components and system operation
A6.11.2       Engine Start System (ESS)
                                                                                                                        A        -        -        -        -       -
              components and system operation
A6.11.3       Operate Digital Engine Start
                                                             *                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -
              System Control (DESSC) tester
A6.11.4       Track DESSC data                                                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.11.5       Troubleshoot                                                                                              -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.11.6.      Remove/install

A6.11.6.1     Jet Fuel Starter (JFS)               *                                                                    -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.11.6.2     Engine and jet start panel                                                                                -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.11.6.3     Fuel control                                                                                              -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.11.6.4     Fuel control filter                                                                                       -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.11.6.5     Clutch servo valve                                                                                        -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.11.6.6     Thermocouple harness                                                                                      -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.11.6.7     Hydraulic fuse                                                                                            -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.11.6.8     Delay valve                                                                                               -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.11.6.9     Door control valve                                                                                        -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.11.6.10    Hand pump                                                                                                 -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.11.6.11    Hydraulic start motor                                                                                     -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.11.6.12    Hydraulic start manifold                                                                                  -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.11.6.13    JFS brake accumulator                                                                                     -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.11.6.14    JFS fuel valves                                                                                           -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.11.6.15    JFS start fuel nozzle                                                                                     -        -        -        -        -       -




                                                                                89                                                                                  Attachment 6
                                        F-16 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core             3. Certification For OJT                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A     B              A        B          C          D       E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                5 level   7 level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC

A6.11.6.16    JFS exciter                                                                                              -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.11.6.17    JFS hydraulic solenoid valves                                                                            -        -        -        -        -       -
A6.11.6.18    Diagnostic engine start system
                                                                                                                       -        -        -        -        -       -
              controller (DESSC)
A6.11.6.19.   ADG

A6.11.6.19.1 Power take-off shaft                 *                                                                   2b        -        -        -        -       -

A6.11.6.19.2 Oil filters                                                                                              2b        -        -        -        -       -

A6.11.6.19.3 Magnetic chip detectors                                                                                   -        -        -        -        -       -
A6.11.6.19.4 Differential pressure indicators
                                                                                                                       -        -        -        -        -       -
             (Delta P)
A6.11.6.19.5 Garlock seals                                                                                             -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.11.6.19.6 Speed sensors (JFS/PTO)                                                                                   -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.11.7.      Service

A6.11.7.1     JFS emergency brake accumulator     *                                                                   2b        -        -        -        -       -

A6.11.7.2     Accessory drive gearbox oil         *                                                                   2b        -        -        -        -       -
A6.12.        EMERGENCY POWER UNIT
              (EPU) SYSTEM
              TR: 1F-16( )-2-49 series TOs
A6.12.1       EPU components and system
                                                                                                                       A        -        -        -        -       -
              operation
A6.12.2       Hydrazine awareness                                                                                      A        -        -        -        -       -

A6.12.3       EPU safety                                                                                               A        -        -        -        -       -

A6.12.4.      Remove/install

A6.12.4.1     EPU assembly                                                                                             -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.12.4.2     Pressure switch                                                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.12.4.3     Hydraulic pump                                                                                           -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.12.4.4     Electric generator                                                                                       -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.12.4.5     External indicator                                                                                       -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.12.4.6     Leak detector pellet                                                                                     -        -        -        -        -       -

A6.12.5.      Service

A6.12.5.1     EPU nitrogen                        *                                                                   2b        -        -        -        -       -




                                                                               90                                                                                  Attachment 6
                                       F-16 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                   2. Core             3. Certification For OJT                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        A     B              A        B          C          D       E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                          3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                   5 level   7 level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                         Start   Complete   Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC

A6.12.5.2     EPU oil                                *                                                                   2b        -        -        -        -       -
A6.12.6       Perform operational check in bleed
                                                                                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -
              air mode
A6.13.        SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
              TR: AFOSH 91-100, Applicable
              equipment TOs
A6.13.1.      F-16 hand steering bar
              TR: TO 35B5 Series
A6.13.1.1     Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -
              operate
A6.13.2.      Fuel tank installation and removal
              dollies
A6.13.2.1     Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                         2b        -        -        -        -       -
              operate
A6.13.3.      Fuel tank removal and installation
              stores loader/lift truck
A6.13.3.1     Perform pre-use inspection and use                                                                         2b        -        -        -        -       -
A6.13.4.      Hydraulic test stand
              TR: TO 33A2- series as applicable
A6.13.4.1     Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                         2b        -        -        -        -       -
              operate
A6.13.5.      Air conditioning units
              TR: TO 35E9- Series as applicable
A6.13.5.1     Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                         2b        -        -        -        -       -
              operate
A6.13.6.      Liquid nitrogen servicing
              equipment
              TR: TO 35D3- series as applicable
A6.13.6.1     Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -
              operate
A6.13.7.      Gaseous nitrogen servicing
              equipment
              TR: TO 35D3- series as applicable
A6.13.7.1     Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -
              operate
A6.13.8.      Self generating nitrogen servicing
              equipment
              TR: TO 35D29-7-6-1
A6.13.8.1     Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                          -        -        -        -        -       -
              operate
A6.13.9.      Oil servicing carts
              TR: TO 35A17- series as
              applicable
A6.13.9.1     Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                         3c        -        -        -        -       -
              operate
A6.13.10.     Hydraulic servicing carts
              TR: TO 35D29 Series as applicable
A6.13.10.1    Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                         3c        -        -        -        -       -
              operate
A6.13.11.     Engine removal and installation (R
              and I) Trailer
              TR: TO 35D3 Series




                                                                                  91                                                                                  Attachment 6
                                       F-16 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core             3. Certification For OJT                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A     B              A        B          C          D       E             A                 B                C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                5 level   7 level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC    Course CDC
A6.13.11.1    Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                       -        -        -        -        -       -
              operate
A6.13.12.     Engine transfer trailer
              TR: TO 35D3 Series
A6.13.12.1    Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                                                                                       -        -        -        -        -       -
              operate
A6.13.13.     LOX servicing equipment
              TR: TOs 37C2-8 and 15X-1-1
A6.13.13.1    Perform pre-use inspection and
                                                  *                                                                   2b        -        -        -        -       -
              operate




                                                                               92                                                                                  Attachment 6
                                          AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
                                                                                                                                                      2AX7X

`1. Tasks                                                                                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                Provided
Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                 A          B           C
                                                                                                               3-Skill Level 5-Skill Level    7-Skill Level
                                                                                                                   (1)           (1)         (1)        (2)
                                                                                                                  Crse           CDC         Crse      CDC

NOTE 1: Columns 2 and 3 are deleted from this STS because all items are SUBJECT KNOWLEDGE LEVEL only and require no certification.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: This attachment is to be used in conjunction with other attachments in applicable CFETPs.
NOTE 4: Personnel must complete CDC requirements on all MDSs/attachments.
NOTE 5: This attachment is to be used as a correlation document for the 2AX7X 7-level Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman CDCs.

AA.1.         MAINTENANCE PHILOSOPHY AND POLICY
AA.1.1.      Aircraft and Equipment Readiness
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.1.2.      Maintenance Concept
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-129
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.1.3.      Reliability and Maintainability (R&M)
             TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-118 and TO 00-35D-54
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.1.4.      Operating Instructions (OI)
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 33-360
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.1.5.      Maintenance Information Systems (MIS)
             TR: AFCSM 21-556 Volume 2, AFI 21-101, AFI 21-116, and TO 00-20-2
                                                                                                                                                        B
AA.1.6.      Maintenance Metrics
             TR: AFI 21-103 and AFTTP 3-3
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.1.7.      Maintenance Repair Priorities
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.1.8.      Historical Aircraft and Equipment Records
             TR: AFI 21-101 and TO 00-20-1
                                                                                                                                                        A

AA.2.         MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION KEY LEADER RESPONSIBILITIES
AA.2.1.      Wing Commander (WG/CC)
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.2.2.      Wing Vice Commander (WG/CV)
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.2.3.      Maintenance Group Commander (MXG/CC)
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.2.4.      Maintenance Group Deputy Commander (MXG/CD)
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.2.5.      MXG Superintendent (SUPT)
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.2.6.      Squadron Commander (SQ/CC)
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.2.7.      Maintenance Operations Officer (MOO)/Maintenance Superintendent (MX SUPT)
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.2.8.      Flight Commander/Flight Chief
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.2.9.      AMU OIC/Superintendent (SUPT)
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.2.10.     Section NCOIC/Chief
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                        B
AA.2.11.     Production Superintendent (Pro Super)
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                        A

AA.3.        FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS SQUADRON (MOS)
AA.3.1.      Maintenance Operations Flight (MOF)
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                        A

                                                                       93                                      As of U&TW 15-17 Feb 2011
                                                                                                                           Attachment A
                                         AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
                                                                                                                                  2AX7X

`1. Tasks                                                                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                            Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                            Provided
Knowledge And Technical References                                                             A          B           C
                                                                                           3-Skill Level 5-Skill Level    7-Skill Level
                                                                                               (1)           (1)         (1)        (2)
                                                                                              Crse           CDC         Crse      CDC
AA.3.2.      Maintenance Training Flight (MTF)
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 36-2232
                                                                                                                                    A
AA.3.3.      Programs and Resources Flight
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
AA.4.        FUNCTIONS OF AIRCRAFT/HELICOPTER MAINTENANCE SQUADRON
             (AMXS/HMXS)
AA.4.1.      Aircraft Maintenance Unit (AMU)
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
AA.4.2.      Flightline Expediter
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
AA.4.3.      Aircrew and Maintenance Debrief Section
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
AA.4.4.      Aircraft Section
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
AA.4.5.      Specialist Section
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
AA.4.6.      Weapons Section
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
AA.4.7.      Support Section
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A

AA.5.        FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE SQUADRON (MXS)
AA.5.1.      Accessories Flight
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
AA.5.2.      Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) Flight
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
AA.5.3.      Armament Flight
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
AA.5.4.      Avionics Flight
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
AA.5.5.      Fabrication Flight
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
AA.5.6.      Maintenance Flight
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
AA.5.7.      Munitions Flight
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
AA.5.8.      Propulsion Flight
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
AA.5.9.      Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE) Flight
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A

AA.6.        MAINTENANCE TRAINING
AA.6.1       Types of Training
             TR: AFI 36-2232 and the ETCA site located at: https://etca.randolph.af.mil/
                                                                                                                                    A
AA.6.2.      Training Documentation
             TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2201 and AFI 36-2232
                                                                                                                                    A
AA.6.3.      Training Business Area (TBA)
             TR: https://www.my.af.mil/imdsltpa/IMDSTWeb/ActionServlet
                                                                                                                                    B
AA.6.4.      Special Certification Rosters
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
AA.6.5.      Maintenance Qualification Program (MQP)
             TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2232 and AFPD 10-9
                                                                                                                                    A



                                                                     94                    As of U&TW 15-17 Feb 2011
                                                                                                       Attachment A
                                        AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
                                                                                                                                               2AX7X

`1. Tasks                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                         Provided
Knowledge And Technical References                                                                          A          B           C
                                                                                                        3-Skill Level 5-Skill Level    7-Skill Level
                                                                                                            (1)           (1)         (1)        (2)
                                                                                                           Crse           CDC         Crse      CDC
AA.6.6.      Training Management
             TR: AFI 36-2201, AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101 and AETCI 36-2601
AA.6.6.1.    Training Forecast                                                                                                                   A
AA.6.6.2.    Training Request                                                                                                                    A
AA.6.6.3.    Master Training Plan                                                                                                                A
AA.7.        PERSONNEL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
AA.7.1.      Unit Manpower Document (UMD) and Unit Personnel Manpower Roster (UPMR)
                                                                                                                                                 A
             TR: AFI 36-2110, AFI 38-201 and AFTTP 3-3
AA.7.2.      Personnel Utilization
                                                                                                                                                 A
             TR: AFI 21-101
AA.8.        MAINTENANCE SUPPLY
AA.8.1.      Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS) Supply Support
                                                                                                                                                 A
             TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 (Vol. 1) and AFTTP 3-3
AA.8.2.      Readiness Spares Packages
                                                                                                                                                 A
             TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and AFTTP 3-3
AA.8.3.      Consumables Management
                                                                                                                                                 A
             TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and AFTTP 3-3
AA.8.4.      Equipment Items
                                                                                                                                                 A
             TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and AFMAN 23-220
AA.8.5.      Supply Assets Requiring Functional Check, Calibration, or Operational Flight Programming
                                                                                                                                                 A
             TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and TO 00-20-3
AA.8.6.      Precious Metals Recovery Program
                                                                                                                                                 A
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.8.7.      Supply Points
                                                                                                                                                 A
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.8.8.      Local Manufacture
                                                                                                                                                 A
             TR: AFI 21-101
AA.8.9.      Repair Cycle Assets
                                                                                                                                                 A
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.8.10.     Supply Management Products
                                                                                                                                                 A
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.8.11.     Tail Number Bins (TNB)
                                                                                                                                                 A
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.8.12.     Maintenance Repair/Supply Delivery Priorities
                                                                                                                                                 A
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.8.13.     Classified Assets
                                                                                                                                                 A
             TR: AFI 21-101, AFJI 31-102, TO 00-5-1 and TO 00-20-1
AA.8.14.     Hazardous Materials
                                                                                                                                                 A
             TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 32-7086 and AFI 90-821
AA.8.15.     Supply Deficiency and Discrepancy Reporting
                                                                                                                                                 B
             TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and TO 00-35D-54
AA.8.16.     Special Handling of Supply Assets Containing Hazardous Materials
                                                                                                                                                 A
             TR: AFI 24-203, AFI 32-7086, AFMAN 23-110, TO 42B2-1-3, and TO 6J3-1-1
AA8.17.      Maintenance Supply Liaison
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
                                                                                                                                                 A

AA.9.        TECHNICAL ORDER MANAGEMENT
AA.9.1.      Technical Orders Distribution Process
             TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 63-101, AFTTP 3-3 and TO 00-5-1
                                                                                                                                                 A


                                                                    95                                  As of U&TW 15-17 Feb 2011
                                                                                                                    Attachment A
                                       AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
                                                                                                                       2AX7X

`1. Tasks                                                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                 Provided
Knowledge And Technical References                                                  A          B           C
                                                                                3-Skill Level 5-Skill Level    7-Skill Level
                                                                                    (1)           (1)         (1)        (2)
                                                                                   Crse           CDC         Crse      CDC
AA.9.2.      Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTO)
             TR: TO 00-5-15
                                                                                                                         A
AA.9.3.      Technical Order Change Process
             TR: AFI 21-303
                                                                                                                         A
AA.9.4.      Technical Order Waivers
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-303
                                                                                                                         A

AA.10.       MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS AND PROGRAMS
AA.10.1.     Cannibalization Program
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-3
                                                                                                                         A
AA.10.2.     Restricted Maintenance Areas
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                         A
AA.10.3.     Red Ball Maintenance
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                         A
AA.10.4.     Aircraft/Equipment Impoundment Program
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                         A
AA.10.5.     Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Program
             TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2232 and AFTTP 3-3
                                                                                                                         A
AA.10.6.     Dropped Object Prevention (DOP) Program
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                         A
AA.10.7.     Tool Management
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                         A
AA.10.8.     Tool Accountability
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                         A
AA.10.8.1.   Marking and Tool Identification
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                         A
AA.10.8.2    Locally Manufactured, Developed, or Modified Tools and Equipment
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                         A
AA.10.8.3.   Lost Item/Tool Procedures
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                         A
AA.10.9.     Maintenance Recovery Team
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                         A

AA.11.       QUALITY ASSURANCE (QA) PROGRAM
AA.11.1.     Maintenance Standardization and Evaluation Program (MSEP)
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-3
                                                                                                                         A
AA.11.2.     QA Product Improvement Program
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                         A
AA.11.3      Configuration Management (CM) and Modification Management
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                         A




                                                                  96            As of U&TW 15-17 Feb 2011
                                                                                            Attachment A
                        2A3X3 COURSE OBJECTIVE TRAINING MATRIX


NOTE: The following matrix defines specific sources for training required to achieve an apprentice
(3) skill level appropriate to each aircraft (MDS) as identified in each STS attachment, column 4A to
this CFETP. Training is separated into different phases/locations as indicated in PART II, SECTION
D. The contents of each phase are shown by the proficiency codes listed under the appropriate column
headings in the matrix.

Phase 1 training consists of STS Attachment 2 and is the first three blocks of instruction in all courses
conducted at Sheppard AFB.
Phase 2 training consists of the MDS specific attachment in the course of initial entry.
Phase 3 training is the AFSC awarding course.


                                      A-10 TRAINING 2A333E

 STS Element      TASK                                              Phase 2              Phase 3
 A3.1.1           Phased inspection concept                           A
 A3.1.2           Types of special inspections                        A
 A3.1.3           Safe aircraft for maintenance                       3c
 A3.1.4.5         Combined preflight/postflight                       2b                    3c
 A3.1.4.6         Launch aircraft                                     A                     3c
 A3.1.4.7         Recover aircraft                                    A                     3c
 A3.1.5.1.1       Tow team member                                     2b
 A3.1.5.2         Moor aircraft                                        a
 A3.1.5.3.1       Jacking team member                                 2b
 A3.1.5.3.3       Axle jacking                                        2b
 A3.1.5.5         Lubricate aircraft                                  2b
 A3.1.6.1         Use technical orders                                2b                    3c
 A3.1.6.2         Use Illustrated Parts Breakdown (IPB)               2b
 A3.1.7.1         Document AFTO Form 781H                             2b                    3c
 A3.1.7.2         Document AFTO Form 781A                             3c
 A3.1.7.3         Document AFTO Form 781J                             3c
 A3.1.7.4         Document AFTO Form 781K                             3c
 A3.1.7.5         Document DD Form 2026 (JOAP)                        1a                    2b
 A3.2.1           Airframe components and construction                A
 A3.2.2.1         Stress panels                                       2b
 A3.2.2.2         Doors                                               2b
 A3.2.2.3         Variable ballast                                     b
 A3.2.2.4         Fixed ballast                                        b
 A3.2.2.5         Outer nacelle doors                                 2b
 A3.2.2.6         Inner shrouds                                       2b
 A3.2.2.7         Cargo pods                                          2b
 A3.2.3.1         Raise and lower                                     2b
 A3.3.1           Landing gear system components and                  A

                                                   97
                                                                                           Attachment B
                   2A3X3 COURSE OBJECTIVE TRAINING MATRIX


STS Element   TASK                                         Phase 2   Phase 3
              operation
A3.3.2.1      Alternate gear retraction                      2b
A3.3.2.7      Auxiliary extension system                     2b
A3.3.2.8      Brakes                                         1b
A3.3.2.10     Emergency brake system                         2b
A3.3.3.3      MLG shock strut servicing                      2b
A3.3.4        Service tires                                   -        3c
A3.3.5.1      Nose wheel and tire assembly                   2b
A3.3.5.2      Main wheel and tire assembly                   2b
A3.3.5.5      Brake assembly                                 2b
A3.3.6        Determine serviceability of aircraft tires     2b
A3.4.1        Utility system components and operation        A
A3.4.2.1      Service                                         -        2b
A3.4.2.2      Remove/inspect/install LOX converter           2b
A3.5.1        Flight control system components and           B
              operation
A3.6.1        Hydraulic system components and                A
              operation
A3.6.2.1      Accumulators                                   2b
A3.6.2.2      Reservoir                                      2b
A3.6.3        Bleed                                          2b
A3.7.1        Engine system components and operation         A
A3.7.5        Take oil sample                                2b        3c
A3.7.6.1      Oil system                                     2b        3c
A3.7.10.1     Components and operation                       A
A3.7.11.1     Components and operation                       A
A3.7.11.2     Service APU                                    2b
A3.8.1.1      Internal                                       A
A3.8.1.2      External                                       A
A3.8.2        Refuel aircraft                                2b        3c
A3.8.3.1      Team member                                    1b
A3.8.6.1      UARRSI system components and                   A
              operation
A3.9.1        Electrical system components and               A
              operation
A3.9.2.5      Battery                                        3c
A3.9.3        Apply external electrical power                3c
A3.10.1       Egress system components and operation         A
A3.10.2       Perform cockpit entry procedures               2b        3c
A3.10.3.1     Normal                                         2b        3c
A3.10.3.2     Manual                                         2b        3c
A3.10.3.3     Seat operation                                 3c

                                              98
                                                                      Attachment B
                   2A3X3 COURSE OBJECTIVE TRAINING MATRIX


STS Element   TASK                                     Phase 2   Phase 3
A3.11.1.1     Perform pre-use inspection and operate     2b
A3.11.2.1     Perform pre-use inspection and operate     2b
A3.11.3.1     Perform pre-use inspection and operate     2b
A3.11.5.1     Perform pre-use inspection and operate      -        2b




                                             99
                                                                  Attachment B
                  2A3X3 COURSE OBJECTIVE TRAINING MATRIX


                              F-15 TRAINING 2A333L
STS Element   TASK                                       Phase 2   Phase 3
A5.1.1        Avionics components and system operation     A
A5.1.2        Weapon system components                     A
A5.1.3.       Safe aircraft for maintenance                3c
A5.1.4.1.     Use technical orders                         3c
A5.1.5.1      Document AFTO Form 781H                      2b        3c
A5.1.5.2      Document AFTO Form 781A                      2b        3c
A5.1.5.3      Document AFTO Form 781J                      2b        3c
A5.1.5.4      Document AFTO Form 781K                      2b        3c
A5.1.5.5      Document DD Form 2026 (JOAP)                  -        2b
A5.1.6.1      Periodic inspection concept                  B
A5.1.6.2      Over G inspections                           A
A5.1.6.3.3    Preflight/basic postflight combination       2b        3c
A5.1.6.3.5    Launch aircraft                               b        3c
A5.1.6.3.6    Recover aircraft                              b        3c
A5.1.7.1.1    Tow team member                              2b
A5.1.7.3.1    Jacking team member                          2b
A5.1.7.4      Axle jacking                                 2b
A5.1.7.6      Lubricate aircraft                           2b
A5.1.7.7      Apply external cooling air                   2b
A5.2.1        Airframe components and construction         A
A5.2.4.3      Stress panels                                2b
A5.2.5.1      Hingeable doors                              2b
A5.2.5.2      Radome                                       2b
A5.2.6.1      Components and system operation              A
A5.2.6.5.1    Manual                                       3c
A5.2.6.5.2    Normal                                       3c
A5.2.6.6.1    Actuator                                     2b
A5.2.6.6.2    Accumulator                                  2b
A5.3.1        Components and system operation              A
A5.3.2.1      Landing gear                                 1b
A5.3.2.2      Brakes                                       1b
A5.3.2.4      Arresting gear                               1b
A5.3.3.1      Landing gear extension                       1b
A5.3.3.2      Brakes                                       2b
A5.3.3.3      Steering                                     2b
A5.3.4.1      Nose wheel steering components               A
A5.3.4.3      Operate nose wheel steering                  2b
A5.3.6.1.2    Main                                         2b


                                         100
                                                                   Attachment B
                  2A3X3 COURSE OBJECTIVE TRAINING MATRIX


STS Element   TASK                                            Phase 2   Phase 3
A5.3.6.2      Tires                                              -        3c
A5.3.6.3      Arresting gear actuator                           2b
A5.3.6.4      Arresting gear damper                             2b
A5.3.7.1      Main wheel and tire assembly                      2b
A5.3.7.2      Nose wheel and tire assembly                      2b
A5.3.7.3.1    Brake assemblies                                  2b
A5.3.7.5.4    Hook damper                                       2b
A5.3.8        Bleed brakes                                      2b
A5.3.9        Determine serviceability of aircraft tires        2b        3c
A5.3.12.1     Manual                                            2b
A5.4.1        Components and system operation                   A
A5.5.1        Component identification and system operation     A
A5.5.2        Perform lateral control system bleed              2b
A5.6.1        Components and system operation                   A
A5.6.2.2      Utility                                           2b        3c
A5.6.5        Apply hydraulic pressure                          2b
A5.6.7.2      Pumps                                             2b
A5.7.1        Components and system operation                   A
A5.7.4.1      Components and system operation                   A
A5.7.5.1      Inspect magnetic chip detectors                   2b        3c
A5.7.5.2      Service                                           2b
A5.7.5.4      Take JOAP sample                                   -        3c
A5.7.8.1      Components and system operation                   A
A5.7.8.4.1    JFS accumulator                                   3c
A5.7.8.4.2    Central Gear Box (CGB)                            3c
A5.7.8.4.3    Aircraft Mounted Accessory Drives (AMAD)          3c
A5.7.8.5.26   AMAD oil filter and differential pressure         3c
              indicator
A5.8.1        Components and system operation                   A
A5.8.3        Refuel aircraft (normal) power off                2b        3c
A5.8.9.1      Remove/inspect/install                            2b
A5.8.9.4      Inspect and use 600 gallon tank dolly             2b
A5.8.10.1     Components and system operation                   A
A5.9.1        Components and system operation                   A
A5.9.2.1      Internal lighting                                 3c
A5.9.2.2      External lighting                                 3c
A5.9.2.3      Indicator/warning lights                          3c
A5.9.3.1.1    Landing light                                     2b
A5.9.3.1.2    Taxi light                                        2b
A5.9.3.1.5    Wing position light                               2b

                                          101
                                                                        Attachment B
                  2A3X3 COURSE OBJECTIVE TRAINING MATRIX


STS Element   TASK                                           Phase 2   Phase 3
A5.9.3.1.6    Stab position light                              2b
A5.9.4.1      Service                                          2b
A5.9.5        Connect/apply/disconnect external electrical     3c
              power
A5.10.1       Components and system operation                  A
A5.10.2.1     Normal                                           3c
A5.10.2.2     Alternate                                        3c
A5.11.1.1     Perform pre-use inspection and operate           2b
A5.11.2.1     Perform pre-use inspection and operate           2b
A5.11.3.1     Perform pre-use inspection and operate           2b
A5.11.4.1     Perform pre-use inspection and operate           2b




                                           102
                                                                       Attachment B
                   2A3X3 COURSE OBJECTIVE TRAINING MATRIX


                                F-16 TRAINING 2A333M

STS Element   TASK                                       Phase 2   Phase 3
A6.1.2.1.1    Team member                                  2b
A6.1.2.2      Moor aircraft                                2b
A6.1.2.3.1    Axle jack                                    2b
A6.1.2.3.2    Tripod jack team member                      2b
A6.1.2.5      Safe aircraft for maintenance                3c
A6.1.3.1      Phase inspection concept                     A
A6.1.3.2.4    Preflight/basic postflight                   2b        3c
A6.1.3.2.7    Launch aircraft                               b        3c
A6.1.3.2.8    Recover aircraft                              b        3c
A6.1.3.3.7    Perform throttle inspection                  2b
A6.1.5.1      Midas TO numbering system                    A
A6.1.5.2      Use technical orders                         3c
A6.1.6.1      Document AFTO Form 781H                      2b        3c
A6.1.6.2      Document AFTO Form 781A                      3c
A6.1.6.3      Document AFTO Form 781J                      3c
A6.1.6.4      Document AFTO Form 781K                      3c
A6.2.1        Airframe components and construction         A
A6.2.3.1      Hingeable doors                              2b
A6.2.4        Clean canopy                                 2b
A6.3.1        Landing gear components and system           A
              operation
A6.3.2        Alternate landing gear components and        A
              system operation
A6.3.3        Braking components and system                A
              operation
A6.3.4        Arresting hook components and system         A
              operation
A6.3.5        Nose wheel steering (NWS) components         A
              and system operation
A6.3.6.18.1   Main                                         2b
A6.3.6.18.2   Nose                                         2b
A6.3.6.19     Brake assembly                               2b
A6.3.6.24     MLG pneumatic charging valve                 2b
A6.3.8.1      Shock strut                                  2b
A6.3.8.2      Alternate landing gear/arresting hook        2b
              pneumatic reservoir
A6.3.8.3      Tires                                         -        3c
A6.3.9        Determine serviceability of tires            3c
A6.3.10.1.1   Team member                                  1a
A6.3.12       Perform arresting hook operational check     2b
                                            103
                                                                    Attachment B
                   2A3X3 COURSE OBJECTIVE TRAINING MATRIX


STS Element   TASK                                     Phase 2   Phase 3
A6.4.1.1      Fire and overheat detection components     A
              and system operation
A6.4.2.1      Fuel inerting system components and        A
              operation
A6.4.2.2      Remove/inspect/install halon reservoir     2b
A6.4.3.1      Liquid oxygen components and system        A
              operation
A6.4.3.2      Service LOX converter                       -        2b
A6.4.3.3      Remove/install converter                    -        2b
A6.5.1        Components and system operation            A
A6.5.3.2      Flight control accumulator                 2b
A6.6.1        Hydraulic components and system            A
              operation
A6.6.2.4      Filter/assembly                            2b
A6.6.2.5      Delta P                                    2b
A6.6.3        Service reservoir accumulator              2b
A6.6.4.4      Service (-12JG)                            3c
A6.6.6        Perform general bleed and leak check       2b
A6.7.1.1      Engine components and system operation     A
A6.7.1.3      Inspect and clean flame sensor             2b
A6.7.2.1      Engine components and system operation     A
A6.7.2.3      Service engine oil                         2b        3c
A6.8.1        Fuel components and system operation       A
A6.8.2        Inflight refuel components and system      A
              operation
A6.8.3.1      Wing tank assembly                         2b
A6.8.3.2      Centerline tank                            2b
A6.8.5        Refuel aircraft without external power     2b        3c
A6.9.1        Electrical components and system           A
              operation
A6.9.2        Connect/apply external power               3c
A6.9.3        Disconnect external power                  3c
A6.9.4.1      Batteries                                  2b
A6.9.4.2      Light lenses                               2b
A6.9.4.3      Light lamps                                2b
A6.9.5.1      Interior lighting                          2b
A6.9.5.2      Exterior lighting                          2b
A6.9.6        Service constant speed drive (CSD)         2b
A6.10.1       Egress components and system operation     A
A6.10.2.1     Electrically                               3c
A6.11.1       Accessory Drive Gearbox (ADG)              B
              components and system operation

                                          104
                                                                  Attachment B
                    2A3X3 COURSE OBJECTIVE TRAINING MATRIX


STS Element    TASK                                     Phase 2   Phase 3
A6.11.2        Engine Start System (ESS) components       A
               and system operation
A6.11.6.19.1   Power take-off shaft                       2b
A6.11.6.19.2   Oil filters                                2b
A6.11.7.1      JFS emergency brake accumulator            2b
A6.11.7.2      Accessory drive gearbox oil                2b
A6.12.1        EPU components and system operation        A
A6.12.2        Hydrazine awareness                        A
A6.12.3        EPU safety                                 A
A6.12.5.1      EPU nitrogen                               2b
A6.12.5.2      EPU oil                                    2b
A6.13.2.1      Perform pre-use inspection and operate     2b
A6.13.3.1      Perform pre-use inspection and operate     2b
A6.13.4.1      Perform pre-use inspection and operate     2b
A6.13.5.1      Perform pre-use inspection and operate     2b
A6.13.9.1      Perform pre-use inspection and operate     2b        3c
A6.13.10.1     Perform pre-use inspection and operate     3c
A6.13.13.1     Perform pre-use inspection and operate      -        2b




                                             105
                                                                   Attachment B
