DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                       CFETP1N1X1
Headquarters, US Air Force                                                         Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                     17 December 2012




                                Air Force Specialty Code
                                         1N1X1
                             GEOSPATIAL INTELLIGENCE




                              CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
                             AND TRAINING PLAN (CFETP)




ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.




                                              1
                               GEOSPATIAL INTELLIGENCE
                                     AFSC 1N1X1X

                                      Table of Contents

PART I

Preface                                                    4

Abbreviations/Terms explained                              5

Section A – General Information                           12
Purpose of the CFETP
Use of the CFETP
Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B – Career Progression and information            13
Specialty Description
Skill/Career Progression
      Apprentice Level (3)
      Journeyman Level (5)
      Craftsman Level (7)
      Superintendent Level (9)
Training Decisions
Community College of the Air Force (CCAF)
Career Field Path

Section C – Skill Level Training Requirements             21
Purpose
Specialty Qualification Requirements
      Apprentice Level (3)
      Journeyman Level (5)
      Craftsman Level (7)
      Superintendent Level (9)

Section D – Resource Constraints                          24

Section E – Transitional Training Guide                   25

PART II

Section A – Specialty Training Standard                   26

Section B – Course Objective List                         48

Section C – Support Material                              48



                                                 2
Section D – Training Course Index                     48

Section E – MAJCOM Unique Requirement                 50




OPR: 315TRS/XPP (Mr. Jim Davis & Mr. John Fiore)
Certified By: HQ USAF/A2DFM (SMSgt Paul Mandeville)
Supersedes: CFETP1N1X1X, 31 May 2009
Number of Printed Pages: 51




                                        3
                          GEOSPATIAL INTELLIGENCE
                                 AFSC 1N1X1X
                  CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN


Part I

Preface

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for this specialty. The CFETP will provide
personnel a clear career path to success and will instill rigor in all aspects of career field
training. NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty
position qualification training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts; both parts of the plan are used by supervisors to plan,
manage, and control training within the career field.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how everyone will use the plan; Section B identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path; Section C
associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, training…); Section D
indicates resource constraints. Some examples are funds, manpower, equipment, facilities;
Section E, when used, identifies transition training guide requirements.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS)
and includes duties, tasks, technical references to support training, Air Education and Training
Command (AETC) conducted training, wartime course, core task, and correspondence course
requirements; Section B contains the course objective list and training standards supervisors will
use to determine if Airmen satisfied training requirements; Section C identifies available support
materials. An example is a Qualification Training Package (QTP), which may be developed to
support proficiency training. These packages are identified in AFIND8, Numerical Index of
Specialized Educational Training Publications; Section D identifies a training course index
supervisors can use to determine resources available to support training. Included here are both
mandatory and optional courses; Section E identifies MAJCOM unique training requirements
supervisors can use to determine additional training required for the associated qualification
needs.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive
effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan will enable us to
train today's work force for tomorrow's jobs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part
II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.



                                                  4
ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training (AT). Formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in one
or more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance
their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career Airmen at the advanced level of
the AFS.

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). An individual on the Headquarters United States
AF staff who is responsible for career development programs, functional management and
utilization, specialty standards and requirements, training, and force management for a family of
Air Force Specialties (1NXXX). This includes identifying the task requirements and training for
an AF specialty (AFS) or occupational series. This individual will review and/or approve all
proposed changes to specialties within their career family.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list which describes a
particular job type or duty position. They are used by supervisors to document task
qualifications. The tasks on AFJQS/CJQS are common to all persons serving in the described
duty position.

Air Force Specialty (AFS). A group of duty positions that require common qualifications
identified by a title and code.

Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC). A combination of alpha-numeric characters which are used
to identify a specific career field and qualification level for Air Force officers and enlisted
personnel.

Air Force Specialty Manager (AFSM). An individual on HQ USAF staff, responsible to the
AFCFM for overseeing all aspects of a particular AFS (1N1XX). Coordinates with MAJCOM
functional and training managers, technical training center personnel, Career Development
Course writers, and various SMEs on career path development and identification of Career Field
Education and Training Plan training tasks items to meet national, tactical, and force training
requirements. Other responsibilities include reviewing AFS manpower utilization, managing
AFS classification guidance, and overall status of the health of their particular AFS.

Bachelor of Science in Intelligence (BSI). The BSI degree is offered through the National
Intelligence University as a fourth year degree completion program that affords those students
who have earned three years of undergraduate credits a means of completing their degree
requirements. The 11 month intelligence curriculum consists of eleven core courses and six
electives to include a summer term capstone project focusing on a current intelligence issue.

Career Development Course (CDC). Self-paced, correspondence course published to provide
the information necessary to satisfy the career knowledge component of on-the-job training
(OJT). These courses are developed from references identified in the CFETP correlating with
mandatory knowledge items listed in the Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD).
CDCs will contain information on basic principles, techniques, and procedures common to an




                                                 5
AFSC. They do not contain information on specific equipment or tasks unless best illustrating a
procedure or technique having utility to the entire AFSC.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive,
multipurpose document encapsulating the entire spectrum of education and training for a career
field. It outlines a logical growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make
career field training identifiable, to eliminate duplication, and to ensure this training is budget
defensible.

Career Training Guide (CTG). A document that uses Task Modules (TMs) in lieu of tasks to
define performance and training requirements for a career field.

Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM). A five-digit code ending in “00” to identify CMSgts and
CMSgt selectees as top enlisted managers in both highly technical skills and in broad areas of
managerial competence.

Continuation Training. Additional training exceeding requirements with emphasis on present
or future duty assignments.

Core Functions. The mission of the U.S. Air Force is to fly, fight and win…in air, space and
cyberspace. To achieve that mission, the Air Force has a vision: The United States Air Force
will be a trusted and reliable joint partner with our sister services known for integrity in all of our
activities, including supporting the joint mission first and foremost. We will provide compelling
air, space, and cyberspace capabilities for use by the combatant commanders. We will excel as
stewards of all Air Force resources in service to the American people, while providing precise
and reliable Global Vigilance, Reach and Power for the nation. That vision orbits around three
core competencies: Developing Airmen, Technology-to-Warfighting, and Integrating
Operations. These core competencies make our twelve core functions possible:
Agile Combat Support: The ability to field, protect, and sustain air, space, and cyber forces
across the full range of military operations to achieve Joint effects.
Air Superiority: That degree of dominance in the air battle of one force over another that permits
the conduct of operations by the former and its related land, sea, air and special operations forces
at a given time and place without prohibitive interference by the opposing force.
Building Partnerships: The ability to set the conditions for interaction with partner, competitor
or adversary leaders, military forces or relevant populations by developing and presenting
information and conducting activities to affect their perceptions, will, behavior, and capabilities.
Command and Control: The ability of commanders to integrate operations in multiple theaters at
multiple levels through planning, coordinating, tasking, executing, monitoring and assessing air
space and cyberspace operations across the range of military operations.
Cyberspace Superiority: The degree of dominance in cyberspace of one force over another that
permits the conduct of operations by the former and its related land, air, seas, space and special
operations forces at a given time and place without prohibitive interference by the opposing
force.



                                                  6
Global Integrated Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance: Conducting and
synchronizing surveillance and reconnaissance across all domains – principally in air, space and
cyberspace – for producing essential intelligence to achieve decision superiority through
planning, collecting, processing, analyzing and rapidly disseminating critical information to
decision-makers across the spectrum of worldwide military operations at all levels of warfare.
Global Precision Attack: The ability to hold at risk or strike rapidly and persistently, with a wide
range of munitions, any target and to create swift, decisive and precise effects across multiple
domains.
Nuclear Deterrence Operations: Operate, maintain, and secure nuclear forces to achieve an
assured capability to deter an adversary from taking action against vital U.S. interests. If
deterrence fails, guarantee of the ability to respond appropriately with nuclear options.
Rapid Global Mobility: The timely deployment, employment, sustainment, augmentation and
redeployment of military forces and capabilities across the range of military operations.
Personnel Recovery Operations: The sum of military, diplomatic, and civil efforts to effect the
recovery and return of U.S. Military, DoD civilians, and DoD contractor personnel who are
authorized to accompany the U.S. Armed Forces and who are in danger of becoming, or already
are, beleaguered, besieged, captured, detained, interned, or otherwise missing or evading capture
while participating in U.S.-sponsored activities or missions, in an uncertain or hostile
environment, or as determined by the Secretary of Defense.
Space Superiority: To deliver a degree of dominance in space over adversaries of the U.S. that
permits the conduct of operations by U.S. and Allied land, sea, air, space and special operations
forces at a given time and place without prohibitive interference by the opposing force.
Special Operations: Specialized airpower operations conducted in hostile, denied or politically
sensitive environments to achieve military, diplomatic, informational and/or economic
objectives, employing military capabilities for which there is no broad conventional force
requirement. These operations often require covert, clandestine or low visibility
capabilities…can be conducted independently or in conjunction with operations of conventional
forces or other government agencies and may include operations through, with or by indigenous
or surrogate forces.
The Air Force bases these core competencies and core functions on a shared commitment to
three core values – integrity first, service before self, and excellence in all we do.

Core Intelligence Training (CIT). Fundamental training across the 1NXXX Career Field.

Core Task. A task AFCFMs identify as a minimum qualification requirement within an Air
Force specialty or duty position. Core Tasks for the AFS can be either task- or knowledge-based
and are the STS line items fundamental to meeting these core competencies. Each MAJCOM is
responsible for developing the minimum standard to which each core task will be trained. Core
tasks are common to all personnel within an AFS required to perform intelligence functions. The
skills (or knowledge) must be trained, maintained, and certified, regardless of duty
position/location and are based upon skill level.




                                                 7
Course Objective List (COL). A publication, derived from initial/advanced skills course
training standard, identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective standards
provided to achieve a 3-5-7-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to assist in
conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Developing, Managing and
Conducting Military Training Programs.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video,
or other necessary means to supplement training.

Field Evaluation Questionnaire (FEQ). An extensive survey based on the CFETP to
determine how well the formal training met the apprentice levels outlined in the CFETP. This
survey is sent approximately 6 months after graduation to the Base Education and Training
Manager, if unclassified, or direct to the unit training manager, if classified.

Field Technical Training. Special or regular on-site training conducted by a field training
detachment (FTD), Formal Training Unit (FTU) or by a mobile training team (MTT).

Graduate Assessment Survey (GAS). Survey conducted in accordance with AFI 36-2201.
Used by recent graduates to evaluate the quality of formal training received and its applicability
to their job. The data is used to determine the effectiveness of, and need for changes in training.

Initial Qualification Training (IQT). IQT is training needed to qualify intelligence personnel
for basic duties in an assigned position for a specific MDS, Weapon System, Intelligence
function or activity without regard for a unit’s specific mission.

Initial Skills Training. Skills received while attending a formal technical school that results in
the award of a 3-skill level in an AFSC.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly, but flexible process for
planning, developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures personnel
are taught in a cost efficient way the knowledge, skills, and attitudes essential for successful job
performance.

Intelligence Occupational Badge. Wear the basic badge after completing technical school.
Wear the senior badge after award of the 7-skill level, and wear the master badge as a Master
Sergeant or above with 5 years in the specialty from award of the 7-skill level. For retrainees,
credit toward new badges starts upon entry into the new AFSC. EXCEPTION: Chief Master
Sergeants cross-flowed into a new CEM Code wear the basic badge of their new career field
upon award of the CEM Code, the senior badge after 12 months, and the master badge after 5
years. Ref AFI 36-2903.

MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM). An individual at the MAJCOM/Joint activity
command level who is responsible for identifying task and training requirements for an AFS or
Occupational Series and is responsible for validating intelligence requirements, command
assignment entitlements, technical school graduate assignments and matching available
manpower resources to meet the MAJCOM’s needs.



                                                  8
Master of Science in Strategic Intelligence (MSSI). The MSSI program confers a graduate
degree by completing 600-and 700-level courses, plus a master’s thesis on an intelligence-related
topic. This program is offered on a full-time or part-time basis. All prospective National
Intelligence University students must be U.S. citizens who are members of the U.S. Armed
Forces or federal government employees. All applicants must possess an active TS/SCI security
clearance.

Master of Science and Technology Intelligence (MSTI). The MSTI program confers a
graduate degree by completing 600-and 700-level courses, plus a master’s thesis on a science
and technology intelligence topic within the selected S&T concentration that contributes to the
overall knowledge base of the Intelligence Community. This program is currently offered on a
full-time basis only. All prospective National Intelligence University students must be U.S.
citizens who are members of the U.S. Armed Forces or federal government employees. All
applicants must possess an active TS/SCI security clearance.

Mission Qualification Training (MQT). MQT follows IQT and is training needed to qualify
intelligence personnel to perform their specific unit mission in an assigned mission position.
Completion of Specialty Training Standard task and knowledge training requirements may be
accomplished concurrently with MQT.

National Intelligence University (NIU). NIU is an accredited academic institution charted by
Congress and the Joint Chiefs of Staff to prepare intelligence professionals for positions at Joint,
Air Staff, and MAJCOM levels.

Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). A detailed report showing the results of an
occupational survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify
personnel in both upgrade (skill level award) and job qualification (duty position certification)
training.

Proficiency Training. Additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training
courses, or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge
beyond the minimum required for upgrade.

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an
individual in a specific duty position. This portion of the dual channel on-the-job training
program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the
performance skills required to do the job.

Qualification Training Package. An instructional package used at the unit to qualify, or aid
qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of equipment. It may be printed,
computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.




                                                 9
Reporting Identifier (RI). Identify authorizations and individual enlisted airmen who, for any
reason, are not identifiable in the classification structure. Technical Applications Specialists are
represented by the RI 9S100.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and
equipment that preclude desired training from being delivered.

Skills Training. A formal course that results in the award of a skill level.

Special Duty Identifier (SDI). Identify authorizations for enlisted airmen assigned to and
performing an actual group of tasks on a semi-permanent or permanent duty basis unrelated to
any specific career field. Career Assistance Advisors are represented by the SDI 8A100.

Special Experience Identifier (SEIs). A three-character designator that identifies specific
experience or expertise within a particular career field. Established when experience or training
is critical to a job. SEIs complement the assignment process but are not substitutes for AFSCs,
CEM codes, prefixes, suffixes, SDIs, RIs, assignment instruction codes, and professional
specialty course codes. Additionally, SEIs can serve as a tool for commanders to ensure
personnel are placed/utilized correctly within an organization.

Specialty Requirements Training Team (STRT)/Utilization and Training Workshop
(U&TW). A forum co-chaired by the AFCFM and AF Training Pipeline Manager comprised of
MAJCOM Functional Managers, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training personnel
that determines education and training requirements and establishes the most effective mix of
formal and on-the-job training for each AFSC. The forum will create or revise training
standards, and set responsibilities for providing training. As a quality control tool, the
STRT/U&TW will be used to ensure the validity and viability of the AFS training that
determines career ladder training requirements.

Specialty Training. A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (on-the-
job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in the award of a skill level.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes skills and
knowledge that Airman in a particular Air Force specialty needs on the job. It further serves as a
contract between the Air Education and Training Command and the user to show the overall
training requirements for an Air Force specialty code that the formal schools teach.

Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, established and defined by
authority, custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring
quantities or qualities, establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results. A fixed
quantity or quality.

Supplemental Training. Formal training on equipment, methods, and technology not suited for
on-the-job training and not included in AFS upgrade training.




                                                 10
Training Planning Team (TPT). Comprised of the same personnel as a U&TW, however TPTs
are more intimately involved in training development and the range of issues are greater than
those normally covered in the U&TW forum.

Upgrade Training (UGT). Mandatory training that leads to attainment of higher level of
proficiency.

Wartime Skills. Wartime skills/tasks training are initiated based upon a national emergency.
These wartime skills are identified by the letter “w” in the 3-level position of the STS and will be
taught at an accelerated course at Goodfellow AFB while the trainee is going through technical
training school. All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during
war time.




                                                11
Section A - General Information

1. Purpose This CFETP provides information necessary for AFCFM, AFSM, MAJCOM
functional managers (MFMs), commanders, training managers, supervisors and trainers to plan,
develop, manage, and conduct an effective career field training program. This plan outlines the
training that individuals in this AFS should receive in order to develop and progress throughout
their career. This plan identifies initial skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency
training. Initial skills training is the AFS specific training an individual receives upon entry into
the Air Force or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. Normally, this
training is conducted by AETC at one of the technical training centers. Upgrade training
identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, and correspondence course
completion requirements for award of the 5-, 7- and 9-skill levels. Qualification training is
actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an Airman in a specific duty
position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is
designed to provide the performance skills/knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training
is formal specialty training used for selected Airmen. Proficiency training is additional training,
either in-residence or exportable advanced training courses, or on-the-job training provided to
personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade.
This CFETP also serves the following purposes:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field-training
program. Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an
individual's career.

1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual's career.

1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and the
training delivery method.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints, which impact, full implementation of the desired
career field training process.

2. Uses. The plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure comprehensive
and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop/revise formal resident, non-resident, field and
exportable training based on requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of
the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM and AFSM to develop acquisition strategies
for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial,
upgrade, and proficiency requirements. Identified requirements can be satisfied by OJT, resident
training, contract training, or exportable courses. MAJCOM-developed training to support this
AFSC must be identified for inclusion into this plan.




                                                  12
2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan.
The lists of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

2.4. Converting to New CFETP. Use the new CFETP to identify and certify all past and
current qualifications. For those previously certified and required in the current duty position,
evaluate current qualifications and, when verified, re-certify using current date as completion
date and enter trainee's initials and certifier's initials. For non-core and non-critical tasks
previously certified and required in the current duty position, enter trainee's and trainer's initials.
When transcribing previous certification for tasks not required in the current duty position, carry
forward only the previous completion date of certification (not the initials of another person). If
and when transcribed tasks become duty position requirements, re-certify using current date and
standard certification procedures. The person whose initials appear in the trainer or certifier
block during the transcription process must meet the requirements of their respective roles.
Upon completion of the transcription process, give the old CFETP to the member.

3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority. The AFSM,
MAJCOM representatives, and AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on the
career field training requirements. The AETC training manager for this specialty will initiate an
annual review of this document by AETC and MFMs to ensure currency and accuracy. Using
the list of courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.

Section B - Career Progression and Information

4. Specialty Description.

4.1. Specialty Summary. Manages, supervises, and performs intelligence activities and
functions including exploitation, development, and dissemination of multisensor geospatial
intelligence products to support warfighting operations and other activities. Related DoD
Occupational Subgroup: 124200.

4.2. Duties and Responsibilities.

4.2.1. Exploits and analyzes multisensor imagery and geospatial data and products in conjunction
with all-source intelligence information. Determines type, function, status, location, significance
of military facilities and activities, industrial installations, and surface transportation networks.
Determines type, function, and location of military equipment including ground, air, naval,
missile, and electronic orders of battle. Uses multisensor imagery to conduct comparative
analysis. Analyzes terrain to determine trafficability, and identify landing zones and defensive
fortifications. Analyzes structures of military and industrial installations to determine
construction type and functionality. Determines present and future imagery collection
requirements. Prepares damage assessment reports detailing structural damage and weapons
effects. Uses multispectral imagery to analyze the likelihood of military and non-military
activities and monitors counterinsurgency operations, through the use of full motion video, in
direct support of special operations. Works closely with system collectors and collection
managers to optimize capabilities to satisfy customer requirements and works closely with
customers to assist in the strategy and submission of intelligence production requirements.



                                                  13
4.2.2. Operates imagery exploiting equipment including computer-assisted exploiting, geospatial
analysis manipulation and automated database systems. Constructs queries and retrieves
historical files to conduct comparative analysis. Uses automated exploitation equipment to
prepare, review, and transmit intelligence reports. Uses softcopy imagery and geospatial data
systems to exploit, perform mensuration, annotate, and disseminate GEOINT products.

4.2.3. Performs targeting functions to include target development, weaponeering, force
application, execution planning and combat assessment. Maintains and uses geospatial
databases, target materials, imagery and other intelligence products. Performs precise
mensuration of multisensor imagery and geospatial data to determine geographic location, and
vertical and horizontal measurements of objects and surrounding terrain. Uses maps, charts,
geodetic products, and multisensor imagery to determine distance, azimuth, and location of
targets.

4.2.4. Compiles imagery derived data and geospatial information into detailed target
assessments. Uses information from other intelligence disciplines to analyze imagery and
geospatial data. Prepares and conducts multisensor imagery and geospatial information derived
intelligence briefings. Compiles and maintains target folders.

4.2.5. Coordinates, Unmanned Aerial System’s (UAS) tasking, processing, exploitation and
dissemination. Works with UAS mission team to plan mission, maintain collection list, identify
collection sequence and provide specific targets’ requirements. Assists in the identification of
key features and determining optimal sensor selection and exploitation parameters and the
assessment of weapons impact and effects.

4.2.6. Provides imagery exploitation support to Air Operations Center (AOC) processes,
including Collection Management, Predictive Battlespace Awareness (PBA), , Target
Development, Time Sensitive Target Prosecution and Situational Awareness for the AOC.

5. Skill/Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to
the superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force’s ability to accomplish its
mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training must do their part to plan, manage, and
conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will
ensure each individual receives viable training at appropriate points in their career.

5.1. Apprentice (3) Level. Initial skills in this specialty consist of the tasks and knowledge
provided in the 3-skill level resident Geospatial Intelligence Analysis or Targeteer Apprentice
Courses, located at Goodfellow AFB TX. Individuals must complete the initial skills course
(X3ABR1N131A00AB & X3ABR1N131B00AB) to be awarded AFSC 1N131X. Current
requirements were identified and validated during the STRT/U&TW held 26-30 July 2011.

5.2. Journeyman (5) Level Upgrade Requirement. To qualify for 5-skill level, Airmen must:
(1) complete duty position qualification training; (2) complete the 5-level Career Development
Course (CDC); (3) complete 12 months UGT (9 months for retrainees); (4) meet mandatory
requirements listed in the specialty description in the Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory
(ECD) and CFETP; and (5) be recommended by their supervisor. UGT consists of completing



                                                14
duty position training/certification, any specified core task training, and appropriate courses as
outlined in the CFETP.

5.3. Craftsman (7) Level. To qualify for award of the 7-level, Airmen must (1) be a SSgt or
higher, (2) complete mandatory CDC’s (if applicable), core tasks identified in the CFETP and
other duty position tasks identified by the supervisor, unit or HHQ (3) meet mandatory
requirements listed in the specialty description in the Air Force Enlisted ECD and CFETP, (4)
complete a minimum of 12 months in upgrade training (6 months if a retrainee) , and (5)
recommended by the supervisor for award of the 7-skill level. Individuals in retraining status are
subject to the same requirements and must complete a minimum of six months in UGT.

5.4. Superintendent (9) Level. To qualify for award of the 9-level requires promotion to SMSgt.
Also, managing, leading and supervising an exploitation team or unit activities in support of
geospatial intelligence production.

5.5. Intelligence Occupational Badge. Wear the basic badge after completing technical school.
Wear the senior badge after award of the 7-skill level, and wear the master badge as a Master
Sergeant or above with 5 years in the specialty from award of the 7-skill level. For retrainees,
credit toward new badges starts upon entry into the new AFSC. EXCEPTION: Chief Master
Sergeants cross-flowed into a new CEM Code wear the basic badge of their new career field
upon award of the CEM Code, the senior badge after 12 months, and the master badge after 5
years. Ref AFI 36-2903

6. Training Decisions. This CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Geospatial Intelligence Specialty.
The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet the training requirements.
The strategy must be apparent and affordable, to reduce duplication of training and eliminate a
disjointed approach to training.

6.1. Initial Skills. The Geospatial Intelligence Analysis Apprentice Course was designed to
provide graduates with the tools necessary to perform basic 3-skill level tasks immediately upon
arrival at their initial intelligence duty assignment. These tools will afford them the opportunity
to make an instant positive impact on mission accomplishment.

6.2. Proficiency Training. Any additional knowledge and skills that were not provided through
initial skills or upgrade training fall under the auspices of continuation training. The purpose of
the continuation program is to provide additional training that exceeds minimum qualification or
upgrade training requirements with emphasis on present and future duty positions. MAJCOMs
and joint activities must develop a continuation-training program that ensures personnel in the
Geospatial Intelligence Specialty receive the necessary training at the appropriate point in their
career. The training program will identify both mandatory and optional training requirements.

6.2.1 Community Geospatial-Intelligence Analysis Course (CGAC). This is an intermediate,
in-residence training course that focuses on many aspects of Geospatial-Intelligence, to include
collections, processing, exploitation, integration, targeting support and briefing. This course is
operated and maintained by the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) and conducted



                                                 15
quarterly at the National Geospatial-Intelligence College (NGC), Ft. Belvoir, VA. It is required
that personnel have completed their 5-skill level and have shown success at two assignments
before qualifying to enroll in the CGAC.

6.2.2. Joint Targeting School (JTS). This school is located at Dam Neck Naval Air Station,
VA. and hosts four intermediate level courses. The Joint Targeting Staff Course focuses on the
application of the six-step Joint Targeting Cycle at the theater and operational levels of war and
involves the presentation of concepts and theory associated with each step. The Joint Targeting
Applications Course focuses on the Weaponeering process and concepts of weapon delivery
accuracy, damage mechanisms, and damage criteria along with an introduction to the software
tools used for damage prediction calculations. The Joint Battle Damage Assessment Course is
focused on the methodologies employed to accurately assess and communicate the effectiveness
of military force delivered against a variety of generic targets and target models. The Joint
Collateral Damage Estimation Course is based on Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual
(CJCSM) 3160.01 and focuses on the CDE Assessment Process, Casualty Estimation, Mitigation
Techniques, and CDE Automation Tools. Completion of this course is required for individual
certification as a CDE Basic Analyst or CDE Analyst Instructor.

7. Community College of the Air Force. Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon completion of
basic military training. CCAF provides intelligence personnel in AFSC 1N1X1X the
opportunity to obtain an Associates in Applied Sciences Degree in Intelligence Studies and
Technology. In addition to its associate’s degree program, CCAF offers the following.

7.1. Occupational Instructor Certification. Upon completion of instructor qualification
training, consisting of the instructor methods course and supervised practice teaching, CCAF
instructors who possess an associate’s degree or higher may be nominated by their school
commander/commandant for certification as an occupational instructor.

7.2. CCAF Instructor Certification. It provides CCAF faculty a structured professional
development track and tangible recognition for advanced levels of knowledge, skills, education
and training, and instructional experience. The strengthened CCAF Instructor Certification
(CIC) program aligns well with comparable state teacher certification requirements.

7.2.1. CCAF Professional Manager Certification. This program provides a validating
credentialing process, which recognizes the SNCO’s leadership and management education,
skills and experience. In addition, the program provides Air Force SNCOs with a structured
professional development track that supplements Enlisted Professional Military education
(EPME) and Career Field Education and Training Plans.

7.3. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill
certification is awarded for the primary occupational specialty. The College uses a competency
based assessment process for trade skill certification at one of four proficiency levels:
Apprentice, Journeyman, Craftsman/Supervisor, or Master Craftsman/Manager. All are
transcribed on the CCAF transcript.
7.4. Degree Requirements. Prior to completing an associate’s degree, the 5-level must be
awarded and the following requirements must be met:



                                               16
                                                                                                                               Semester Hours
Technical Education……………………………………………………………………….... 24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies…………………………………………….... 6
Physical Education………........................................................................................................ 4
General Education................................................................................................................... 15
Program Elective..................................................................................................................... 15
Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and Military
Studies; or General Education
Total........................................................................................................................................ 64

7.4.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of
Technical Core subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied from
Technical Core/Technical Elective courses.

7.4.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Professional
military education and/or civilian management courses.

7.4.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of
Basic Military Training.

7.4.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement with the definitions of
applicable General Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF General Catalog.

7.4.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects/courses, including
natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Six semester hours of CCAF degree
applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied. See the
CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science for this specialty.

7.5. Degree Programs:

7.5.1. National Intelligence University (NIU)

7.5.1.1. Description: The National Intelligence University (NIU) is a regionally accredited
institution offering military and civilian personnel working in intelligence or
intelligence/security-related specialties the opportunity to enroll in professional intelligence
undergraduate or graduate-level study in full- or part-time programs. Coursework concentrates
on a variety of intelligence disciplines to include collection; analysis; regional studies;
information operations; intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance; national security issues;
and strategic intelligence in the joint environment. NIU educates future leaders who are full
partners with their policy, planning, and operations counterparts and who are able to anticipate
and tailor the intelligence required at the national, theater and tactical levels. Classes have an
Intelligence Community student mix from all services and the federal government. The college
is located in the Defense Intelligence Analysis Center (DIAC) on Bolling AFB, Washington, DC.




                                                                      17
7.5.1.2. Bachelor of Science in Intelligence (BSI): The BSI degree is offered through the
National Intelligence University as a fourth year degree completion program that affords those
students who have earned three years of undergraduate credits a means of completing their
degree requirements. The 11 month intelligence curriculum consists of eleven core courses and
six electives to include a summer term capstone project focusing on a current intelligence issue.

7.5.1.3. Master of Science in Strategic Intelligence (MSSI). The MSSI program confers a
graduate degree by completing 600-and 700-level courses, plus a master’s thesis on an
intelligence-related topic. This program is offered on a full-time or part-time basis. All
prospective National Intelligence University students must be U.S. citizens who are members of
the U.S. Armed Forces or federal government employees. All applicants must possess an active
TS/SCI security clearance.

7.5.1.4. Master of Science and Technology Intelligence (MSTI). The MSTI program confers a
graduate degree by completing 600-and 700-level courses, plus a master’s thesis on a science
and technology intelligence topic within the selected S&T concentration that contributes to the
overall knowledge base of the Intelligence Community. All prospective National Intelligence
University students must be U.S. citizens who are members of the U.S. Armed Forces or federal
government employees. All applicants must possess an active TS/SCI security clearance.

7.5.1.5. Eligibility Criteria:

A. NIU programs are open to military service members and U.S. government employees who
are U.S. citizens and who hold finalized Top Secret/SCI clearances.

B. The program is open to Air Force active duty and Reserve Component NCOs in the grades of
E-5 select through E-8 and civilians from GG-09 to GG-15.

C. Applicants must have four years intelligence or intelligence-related experience for the BSI
program and 5 Years for the MSSI and MSTI programs.

D. Military applicants must be PCS eligible. Further criteria are defined annually and conveyed
via an AF/A2 message to the field

E. Military members must have three years retainability upon class graduation. Personnel will
incur a three-year active duty service commitment upon graduation/program completion.

F. Military members must have completed Professional Military Education commensurate with
their grade.

G. Individuals who have previously attended the NIU undergraduate program or any other
intern-type program may still apply for graduate studies but must have at least four years
between attendances.
7.5.1.7. Application Process: Air Staff calls for nominations for this program annually in the
summer timeframe via formal message traffic. For further information on applying to the
National Intelligence University, visit http://www.dia.mil/university/ .



                                                18
    7.6. Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is encouraged for all. Individuals
    desiring to become an Air Education and Training Command Instructor should be actively
    pursuing an associate’s degree. A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through
    the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.


    8. Career Field Path

Table 8.1. Enlisted Career Path
                                                                         GRADE REQUIREMENTS
Education and Training Requirements                 Rank          Average    Earliest   High Year Of Tenure
                                                                  Sew-On     Sew-On           (HYT)
Basic Military Training School
Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)         Amn         6 months
Course number                                       A1C        10 Months
Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level)               Amn
- Minimum 12 months upgrade training.               A1C         10 months
- Minimum 9 months upgrade training for             SrA          3 years        28 months                   8 Years
retrainees.
- Complete 5-skill level CDCs
Airman Leadership School (ALS)                                                       Trainer
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service     - Qualified and certified to perform the task to be trained.
or be a SSgt Selectee.                             - Must attend Air Force Training Course.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt
sew-on (Active Duty Only).
Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)                SSgt          4.3 years       3 years                   15 Years
- Minimum rank of SSgt.
- 12 months OJT.
- 6 months OJT for retrainees.
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when available.
- Attend Craftsman course, if applicable.
                                                                                     Certifier
                                                   - Possess at least a SSgt with a 5-skill level or civilian equivalent
                                                   - Attend Air Force Training Course.
                                                   - Be a person other than the trainer.
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)               TSgt        8.5 years        5 years                    20 Years
- Must be a TSgt or TSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt    MSgt        14.5 years        8 years                   24 Years
sew-on (Active Duty Only).
USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)                    SMSgt        17.5 years       11 years                   26 Years
- Must be a MSgt or SMSgt


Upgrade to Superintendent (9-Skill Level)          CMSgt        21.5 years       14 years                   30 Years
- Minimum rank of SMSgt




                                                             19
Table 8.2                                                                                                         1N1X1 CAREER DEVELOPMENT PATH
                                  COMMAND                                                                                   FORMAL TRAINING                                                ENLISTED FORCE                                                                 PROFESSIONAL INTEL SKILLS
                                                                       POSITION                                                                                                                                                      UPGRADE TRAINING                                                                            PME
  RANK                             LEVEL                                                                                      OJT/FTU/MTT                                                  STRUCTURE TIER                                                                      DEVELOPMENT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3-SKILL LEVEL
               APPRENTICE
                                                                                                              Geospatial Intelligence Analyst/Targeteer Apprentice                             Airman Tier:
 AIRMAN                         TECH TRAINING                          STUDENT
                                                                                                                 X3ABR1N131A00AA/X3ABR1N131B00AA                                                 Learning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         - GRADUATE OF AFS AWARDING COURSE
  BASIC

                                                                                                                                                                                              Airman Tier:
                                TECH TRAINING                          STUDENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Learning
 AIRMAN                                                                                                                                                                                   Conforming to Standards                                                                                                                N/A
                                                               STUDENT / ANALYST
                                                                                                                                                                                               Airman Tier:                           5-SKILL LEVEL
                                                           GEOINT ANALYST/TECHNICIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                       Fully Complies with Standards     - COMPLETE MANDATORY CDC




                                                                                                                                                                        TACTICAL
                                    UNIT                                                                                           FTU/OJT                                               Effective Team Members
  AIRMAN                                             DCGS GEOINT ANALYST …….……..………....>                                                                                                                                 - COMPLETE ALL CORE TASKS IDENTIFIED
FIRST CLASS                                                                                                                                                                                                              IN THE CFETP AND OTHER DUTY POSITION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROFESSIONAL RESIDENT /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TASKS IDENTIFIED BY THE SUPERVISOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CORRESPONDENCE COURSES
                                                     ANALYST……….…………………………..….…>                        OJT/IQT/MQT                                                                                                      - COMPLETE A MINIMUM OF 15-MONTHS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         UGT                                                                                         AIRMAN LEADERSHIP
                                                     GEOINT ANALYST……………….…………...…>                     1N1X1A INITIAL COURSE, FTU / OJT                                                                                                                                                                                  SCHOOL
                                                                                                                                                                                              Airman Tier:               - INDIVIDUALS IN RETRAINING STATUS (TSC
                                  UNIT / WING        INTERMEDIATE GEOINT ANALYST..…...…....>            1N1X1B INITIAL COURSE, PPM FTU / OJT
                                                                                                                                                                                           Skilled Technicians           "F") MUST COMPLETE A MINIMUM OF 9-
                                  JOINT / AEF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       - Must be SrA with 48 months
                                                     DCGS ANALYST – 1KH………..………………..>
                JOURNEYMAN




                                                                                                        BASIC INSTRUCTOR COURSE                                                              Skilled Trainers            MONTHS IN UGT
                                 INSTRUCTOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TIS or be a SSgt (sel)
                                                     PRECISE POINT MENSURATION – SEI 2MM...>                                                                                           Developing Supervisory Skills     - MEET MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS
                                SPECIAL DUTY
 SENIOR                                                                                                                                                                                Developing Leadership Skills      LISTED IN SPECIALTY DESCRIPTION IN AF                                                      - Resident graduate is
                                                     TARGETEER ................…………………..............>
 AIRMAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ENLISTED CLASSIFICATION DIRECTORY                                                            prerequisite to sew-on SSgt
                                                     UAS SENSOR OPERATOR - SEI 5ZE…...........…>                                                                                                                         (AFECD) AND CFETP                                                                            (Active Duty Only)
                                                     TECHNICAL TRAINING INSTRUCTOR……….>                                                                                                                                  - BE RECOMMENDED BY SUPERVISOR
                                                                                                        Intelligence Collection Course X5OZD14N3 0C7A
                                                                                                                                                                                                NCO Tier:                               7-SKILL LEVEL
                                  UNIT / WING        ADVANCED GEOINT ANALYST……….……...>                  Intelligence Collection Management Course X5OZD14N3 0X3A                        Highly Skilled Technicians                                                          PROFESSIONAL RESIDENT /
                                  JOINT / AEF
                                                     GEOINT MISSION SUPERVISOR ……..….…....>             Community Geospatial-Intelligence Analysis Course (CGAC)                        Supervisory Responsibilities     - MINIMUM RANK OF SSGT                            CORRESPONDENCE COURSES                                N/A
                                 INSTRUCTOR
                                                                                                        X5AZR1N15 0A0A                                                                   Training Responsibilities
  STAFF                         SPECIAL DUTY         TARGETING SUPERVISOR…………………..…>                                                                                                                                     - 12 MONTHS UGT
SERGEANT                                                                                                Intelligence, Surveillance, & Reconnaissance Operators Course                                                                                                     JIVU – JOINT INTELLIGENCE
                                                     MASINT PROCESSING ANALYST……....……..>                                                                                                                                - INDIVIDUALS IN RETRAINING STATUS (TSC
                                                                                                        (IROC) X3AZR1NXXX 0A1A                                                                                                                                            VIRTUAL UNIVERSITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         "G") MUST COMPLETE A MINIMUM OF 6-                                                              NCO ACADEMY
                                   UNIT / WING       COLLECTION MANAGER – SEI 2FF.…..……...>                                                                                                                              MONTHS IN UGT
                                                                                                        Master Targeting Course (MTC)    X7OAT14N3 0A1A
                                   JOINT / AEF       T1N1X1 – MASTER INSTRUCTOR………..…....>                                                                                                      NCO Tier:                                                                 BSI – BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN
                                  INSTRUCTOR                                                            Conventional Weaponeering Fundamentals Course (MTT)                                  Technical Experts           - MUST BE A 7-LEVEL TO SEW ON TSGT                                                        - Must be a TSgt or TSgt (Sel)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          INTELLIGENCE
                                 SPECIAL DUTY                                                           Introduction to Remote Sensed Imagery/Geographic Information                     Provide Sound Supervision
                                 NAF / MAJCOM                                                           Systems (4M/41-712),                                                              Provide Sound Training                                                          AFIT – AIR FORCE INSTITUTE OF            - Resident graduation is a pre-
TECHNICAL                      NATIONAL AGENCY                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TECHNOLOGY                                 requisite for MSgt sew-on
              CRAFTSMAN




SERGEANT                                                                                                MASTER INSTRUCTOR CRITERIA                                                                                                                                                                                   (Active Duty Only)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SNCO ACADEMY
                                                                                                                                                                                                SNCO Tier:                                                                                                           JOINT SNCO ACADEMY
                                                                                                                                                                                        Transitioning to Operational                                                                                               - Must be a CMSgt (Sel),
                                                                         NCOIC                                                                                                                    Leaders                                        N/A                                                                 SMSgt (Sel) or MSgt to attend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (MSgt (Sel) for non-residence)
 MASTER                                                             SECTION CHIEF
SERGEANT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            - Resident graduation is a
                                                                    FLIGHT CHIEF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      prerequisite to sew on CMSgt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9-SKILL LEVEL                                                                 (Active Duty Only)
               SUPERINTENDEN




                                                                  SUPERINTENDENT                                                                                                               SNCO Tier:



                                                                                                                                                                        OPERATIONAL
                                  UNIT / WING                                                                                                                                                Key, Experienced,
                                  JOINT / AEF                                                                                                                                               Operational Leaders
                                                                       MANAGER
                                 INSTRUCTOR                                                                                                                                                                              - Identified in AFECD
                                SPECIAL DUTY
                                NAF / MAJCOM
                SUPT




 SENIOR
                                HQ/NATIONAL                                                                SENIOR ENLISTED ISR MASTER SKILLS COURSE
 MASTER
SERGEANT                           AGENCY
                                                                                                                                     OJT
                                                                                                                                                                        STRATEGIC




                                                                         CHIEF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         - SELECTS CONVERT TO 1N000
                CEM




                                                                  COMMAND CHIEF                                                                                                                 SNCO Tier:
                                                                                                                                                                                       Serve in Key Leadership Roles
                                                             CHIEF ENLISTED MANAGER                                                                                                     at All Levels in the Air Force

  CHIEF                                                    SQUADRON SUPERINTENDENT
 MASTER
SERGEANT




                                   Earliest Sew-on    Avg Sew-on               HYT
                  AB                   N/A                N/A                  N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (AFI 36-2201)
                  AMN                  N/A            6-MONTHS                 N/A
                  A1C                  N/A           16-MONTHS                 N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                       - Trainers must be qualified and certified on tasks to be trained
                  SRA              28-MONTHS            3-YEARS              8-YEARS                                                                                                                                                                                                     - Must attend formal OJT Trainer Training and appointed by
                  SSGT               3-YEARS          4.3-YEARS             15-YEARS                                                                                                                                                                                                       Commander
                  TSGT               5-YEARS          8.5-YEARS             20-YEARS                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CERTIFIER CRITERIA
                  MSGT               8-YEARS          14.5-YEARS            24-YEARS                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (AFI 36-2201)
                  SMSGT             11-YEARS          17.5-YEARS            26-YEARS                                      BASIC BADGE                                                          SENIOR BADGE                                          MASTER BADGE
                  CMSGT             14-YEARS         21.5-YEARS             30-YEARS                                       (AFI 36-2903)                             20                          (AFI 36-2903)                                         (AFI 36-2903)                     - SSgt with 5-skill level or civilian equivalent, attend formal OJT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Certifier Course, and appointed by the Commander
                                                                                                                  Authorized upon completion of                                       Authorized after award of 7-skill level               Authorized for MSgt and above after
                                                                                                            Technical Training and award of 3-skill level                                                                                 5-years from being Awarded 7-skill level       - Be a person other than the trainer (optimally)
Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements

9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of tasks
and knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for
each skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry,
award and retention of each skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements
are identified in the STS, located in Part II, Sections A and B of this CFETP.

10. Specialty Qualifications.

10.1. Apprentice Level Training:

10.1.1. Specialty Qualification.

10.1.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: basic and advanced imagery interpretation
principles, techniques, and procedures for imagery exploitation, reports, and presentations; Air
Force, DoD, and national imagery intelligence collection systems and procedures; techniques of
collating, analyzing, and evaluating imagery intelligence; use of national geospatial data,
information and intelligence data systems and the maps, charts, grid systems, and interpreting
equipment to solve geospatial intelligence problems; mosaic construction; intelligence reference
materials; fundamental mensuration techniques; distribution of geospatial intelligence;
requirements for, and sources and uses of target and geospatial intelligence data; production of
geospatial related target materials; and security controls, classifications, markings, and handling
restrictions.

10.1.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school with courses in
mathematics, advanced English, , and computer applications is desirable.

10.1.1.3. Training. For award of this skill level, completion of the Geospatial-Intelligence
Apprentice and applicable suffix course is mandatory.
  10.1.1.4. Experience.
The following experience is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:

10.1.1.4.1. 1N151X. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1N131X.
10.1.1.4.2. 1N171X. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1N151X. Also, experience
training or supervising exploitation
team activities in support of geospatial intelligence production.
10.1.1.4.3. 1N191. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1N171X. Also, managing, leading
and supervising exploitation
team or unit activities in support of geospatial intelligence production.

10.1.1.5. Other. The following are mandatory as indicated:
10.1.1.5.1. For entry into this specialty:
10.1.1.5.2. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards.
10.1.1.5.3. Stereopsis (depth perception) acuity equivalent to depth perception standards for
flying Class I or Class IA with or without correction according to AFI 48-123.



                                                21
10.1.1.5.4. For award and retention of AFSC 1N1X1, when required for a current or future
assignment, must successfully complete a polygraph test.

10.1.1.6. For award and retention of these AFSCs, must maintain an Air Force Network License
according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network Professionals.
10.1.1.6.1. Specialty requires routine access to Top Secret material or similar environment.
Award and retention of AFSCs 1N1X1X and 1N000 require completion of a current Single
Scope Background Investigation (SSBI) according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program
Management.
NOTE: Award of the 3-skill level without a completed SSBI is authorized provided an interim
Top Secret security clearance has been granted according to AFI 31-501.


10.1.2. Training Sources and Resources. Completion of the Geospatial Intelligence Analyst or
Targeteer Apprentice Course at Goodfellow AFB, TX satisfies the knowledge and task
performance training requirements specified in the specialty qualification section (above) for
award of the 3-skill level. Column 4A within the 1N1X1X Specialty Training Standard (Part II,
Section A of this CFETP) identifies all the knowledge and tasks with their respective proficiency
levels.




                                               22
10.1.3. Implementation. Entry into training is accomplished through the established pipeline
training process and by approved retraining from any AFSC at the 5-skill level or higher (or 3-
skill level, if no 5-skill level exists).

10.2. Journeyman Level Training:

10.2.1. Specialty Qualification.

10.2.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of intermediate geospatial exploitation
principles, tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) associated with the exploitation,
production, and reporting of geospatial products; Air Force, Department of Defense, and national
imagery and geospatial intelligence organizations and collection systems; use of maps, charts,
grid systems, and interpretation equipment; intelligence reference files; intermediate mensuration
techniques; information security; and military theory and force employment doctrine.

10.2.1.2. Education. Completion of college level courses in speech, advanced English,
mathematics, photography, intelligence, social and political sciences and computer applications
is desirable.

10.2.1.3. Training. For award of this skill level completion of the Intelligence Fundamental
(1NX51) and Geospatial-Intelligence Analysis Journeyman (1N151X) CDCs are mandatory.

10.2.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1N131X is mandatory.
Experience in functions such as imagery exploitation, mensuration, map and chart reading,
reporting, distributed geospatial and imagery related intelligence is also mandatory.

10.2.1.5. Other. For award and retention of this skill level, stereoscopic acuity equivalent to
depth perception standards for flying Class I or Class IIA with or without correction according to
AFI 48-123 (AETC/SG is waiver authority), and eligibility for a Top Secret security clearance
according to AFI 31-501, and for sensitive compartmented information access are mandatory.

10.2.2. Training Sources and Resources. Completion of the Intelligence Fundamental
(1NX51) and Geospatial-Intelligence Analysis Journeyman (1N151X) CDCs satisfies all
knowledge-training requirements specified in the specialty qualification section (above) for
award of the 5-skill level. There are not separate CDCs for the specialty shreds, but dynamic
training will be produced to keep up with technologies and TTPs related to their specifics. The
STS identifies the core tasks required for qualification. UGT and QT are provided by qualified
trainers using the training references identified in the STS and organizational unique training
references, as applicable.

10.2.3. Implementation. Entry into 5-level UGT is initiated after the individual has completed
3-level basic skills training and according to AFI 36-2201. Upon entry into UGT, personnel will
be administered their CDC and undergo OJT to become certified in all 5-level core tasks
reflected in the STS. Additionally, QT is initiated anytime an individual is assigned duties they
are not qualified to perform.



                                               23
10.3. Craftsman Level Training:

10.3.1. Specialty Qualification

10.3.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of advanced imagery exploitation principles,
techniques, and procedures associated with the exploitation, production, and reporting of
GEOINT products; Air Force, Department of Defense, and national imagery intelligence and
GEOINT organizations and collection systems; use of maps, charts, grid systems, and
interpretation equipment; intelligence reference files; advanced mensuration techniques;
information security; and military theory and force employment doctrine.

10.3.1.2. Education. Completion of a CCAF Associates Degree of Applied Sciences in
Intelligence Studies and Technology, or a similar associate’s degree program is highly
recommended. Additionally, completion of college level courses in speech, advanced English,
mathematics, photography, computer applications, intermediate intelligence research, social and
political sciences and training programs are desirable.

10.3.1.3. Training. For award of this skill level, completion of all 7-level task requirements
identified in the CFETP and 12 months UGT is required.

10.3.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1N151X is mandatory. Also,
experience in functions such as imagery exploitation, mensuration, map and chart reading,
reporting, and distributing imagery and geospatial related intelligence is mandatory.

10.3.1.5. Other. For award and retention of this skill level, stereoscopic acuity equivalent to
depth perception standards for flying Class I or Class IIA with or without correction according to
AFI 48-123 (AETC/SG is waiver authority), and eligibility for a Top Secret security clearance
according to AFI 31-501, and for sensitive compartmented information access are mandatory.

10.3.2. Training Sources and Resources. Completion of the Geospatial-Intelligence Craftsman
(1N171) CDC (if applicable) is mandatory. The STS identifies the core tasks required for
qualification. UGT and QT are provided by qualified trainers using the training references
identified in the STS and organizational unique training references, as applicable.

10.3.3. Implementation. Entry into 7-level UGT is initiated when an individual possess the 5-
skill level and receives notification of promotion selection to SSgt. Upon entry into UGT,
personnel will be administered their CDC, if applicable, and undergo OJT to become certified in
all 7-level core tasks reflected in the STS. Additionally, QT is initiated anytime an individual is
assigned duties they are not qualified to perform.

10.4. Superintendent Level Training:

10.4.1. Specialty Qualification.

10.4.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of imagery exploitation principles, techniques,
tactics and procedures associated with the exploitation, production, and reporting of GEOINT



                                                24
products; Air Force, Department of Defense, and national imagery and GEOINT organizations
and collection systems; use of maps, charts, grid systems, and interpretation equipment;
uncontrolled and controlled mosaic construction; intelligence reference files; intermediate
mensuration techniques; image rectification; information security; and military theory and force
employment doctrine.

10.4.1.2 Education. Completion of a bachelor's degree in such areas as social and political
science, photography, or computer information science is recommended. Completion of
additional intelligence professional development programs such as the, Quality of Analysis
Program, Bachelor of Science of Strategic Intelligence (BSI), Master’s of Science of Strategic
Intelligence (MSSI), Master of Science and Technology Intelligence (MSTI), and other
intelligence research and education programs are highly desirable.

10.4.1.3. Training. No additional requirements.

10.4.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1N171X is mandatory.
Experience in functions such as managing, leading, collecting, interpreting, analyzing, and
distributing imagery and geospatial related intelligence and its production are mandatory.

10.4.1.5. Other. For award and retention of this skill level, eligibility for a Top Secret security
clearance according to AFI 31-501 and for sensitive compartmented information access is
mandatory.

10.4.2. Training Sources and Resources. None

10.4.3. Implementation. None

Section D - Resource Constraints

11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints which preclude optimal/desired
training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower.
Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what
effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section are actions
required, office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource constraints will
be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

12. Apprentice Level Training:

12.1. Constraints. None

12.1.1. Impact. None

12.1.2. Resources Required. None

12.1.3. Action Required. None




                                                 25
12.2. OPR/Target Completion Date. None

13. Five-Level Training:

13.1. Constraints. None

13.1.1. Impact. None

13.1.2. Resources Required. None

13.1.3. Action Required. None

13.2. OPR/Target Completion Date. None

14. Seven-Level Training:

14.1. Constraints. None

14.1.1. Impact. None

14.1.2. Resources Required. None

14.1.3. Action Required. None

14.2. OPR/Target Completion Date. None

Section E - Transition Training Guide

NOTE: This AFSC has no transitional training requirements established. This area is reserved.




                                              26
Part II

Section A - Specialty Training Standard

1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC for classes
beginning in 20130404.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program Career Field
Education and Training, this STS:

2.1. Lists in the column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common tasks,
knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for Airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-,
and 7-skill level. Number task statements sequentially i.e., 1.1, 1.2, 2.1. Column 2 (Wartime
Skills) identifies, by a small w, wartime skills based upon national emergency. Column 2 (Core
Tasks) identifies, by an asterisk (*), specialty-wide training requirements.

2.2. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and
knowledge training requirements. Use automated training management systems to document
technician qualifications, if available. Task certification must show a certification/completed
date.

2.3. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the
proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the
task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course. See
CADRE/AFSC/CDC listing maintained by the unit training manager for current CDC listings.

2.4. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to
indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career
development courses.

2.5. Becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for OJT when placed in AF Form 623,
Individual Training Record, and used according to AFI 36-2201. When used as a JQS, the
following requirements apply:

2.5.1. Documentation. Document IAW AFI 36-2201. An AFJQS may be used in lieu of Part II
of the CFETP only upon approval of the AFCFM. NOTE: The AFCFM may supplement these
minimum documentation procedures as needed or deemed necessary for their career field.

2.5.1.1. Converting to New CFETP. Use the new CFETP to identify and certify all past and
current qualifications. For all core and those critical tasks previously certified and required in
the current duty position, evaluate current qualifications and, when verified, re-certify using
current date as completion date and enter trainee's initials and certifier's initials. Remember,
during the transcription process no training is taking place. Therefore, the trainer's initials are
not required. For non-core and non-critical tasks previously certified and required in the current
duty position, evaluate current qualifications and when verified, re-certify using current date as
completion date and enter trainee's and trainer's initials. When transcribing previous certification



                                                27
for tasks not required in the current duty position, carry forward only the previous completion
date of certification (not the initials of another person). If and when transcribed tasks become
duty position requirements, re-certify using standard certification procedures. The person whose
initials appear in the trainer or certifier block during the transcription process must meet the
requirements of their respective roles in accordance with AFI 36-2201 series. Upon completion
of the transcription process, give the old CFETP to the member.

2.5.1.2. Documenting Career Knowledge. When a CDC is not available: The supervisor
identifies STS training references that the trainee requires for career knowledge and ensures, as a
minimum, that trainees cover the mandatory items in Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory
(ECD). For two-time CDC course exam failures: Commanders may direct that supervisors
identify all STS items corresponding to the areas covered by the CDC. The trainee completes a
study of STS references, undergoes evaluation by the task certifier, and receives certification on
the STS. NOTE: Career knowledge must be documented prior to submitting a CDC waiver.

2.5.1.3. Decertification and Re-certification. When an Airman is found to be unqualified on a
task previously certified for his or her position, the supervisor lines through the previous
certification or deletes previous certification when using automated system. Appropriate
remarks are entered on the AF Form 623a, On-The-Job Training Record Continuation Sheet, as
to the reason for decertification. The individual is re-certified (if required) either by erasing the
old entries and writing in the new or by using correction fluid (if the entries were made in ink)
over the previously certified entry. NOTE: Entry should always be in pencil.

2.5.2. Training Standard. Tasks are trained and qualified to the go/no go level. Go means the
individual can perform the task to the designated proficiency level and meet local demands for
accuracy, timeliness, and correct use of procedures.

2.6. This CFETP is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman
Promotion System (WAPS). A team of senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their
career field develops Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKT) at the USAF Occupational Measurement
Squadron. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development
team members as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon
study references listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are in Chapter 2.6.4 thru
2.6.6 of AFI 36-2502, AIRMAN PROMOTION PROGRAM. WAPS is not applicable to the Air
National Guard.

3. Recommendations. Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates.
Reference this STS and address unclassified correspondence to: 17th Training Group, ATTN:
CCME, 170 Griffin Street, Goodfellow AFB, Texas 76908-4211. Address classified
correspondence to 17TRG.CCME@GOODFELLOW.IC.GOV . A 24-hour Customer Service
Information Line (CSIL) has been installed for the supervisor’s convenience to identify
demonstrated over- or under-training on performance/knowledge items listed in this training
standard. For quick response to any training concerns, call the CSIL, DSN 477-3350, any time
day or night. Reference specific STS paragraphs.




                                                 28
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL            LARRY D. JAMES, Lieutenant General, USAF
                    DCS for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance




                                   29
                                       This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                         Initials (Written)         SSAN


                                   Printed Name of Certifying Official and Written Initials
N/I                                                        N/I

N/I                                                         N/I

N/I                                                         N/I

N/I                                                         N/I

N/I                                                         N/I

N/I                                                         N/I


QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                    Proficiency Code Key
                             Scale     Definition: The individual
                             Value
                               1       Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task.
                                       (Extremely Limited)
          Task                 2       Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
      Performance              3       Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
         Levels                4       Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do
                                       the task. (Highly Proficient)
                               a       Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)
         *Task                 b       Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)
       Knowledge               c       Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                                       (Operating Principles)
         Levels                d       Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
                               A       Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
        **Subject              B       Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject.
                                       (Principles)
        Knowledge             C        Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
          Levels              D        Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for
a specific task. (Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any
specific task, or for a subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

X This mark is used alone in the course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in
resources.

 NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war time.




                                                           30
                                                2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                 C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC

1. 1NXXX (Intelligence Analyst)
1.1 Safety
1.1.1 Safety
TR: AFI 91-202                                                                                                          A        -        -        -       -        -
1.2 Security
1.2.1 Information Security (INFOSEC)
TR: AFI 31-401, AFI 33-129 AFGM1.4,
DODM 5200.01V3 & DODM 5200.01V4                   *                                                                     A        -        -       B        -        -
1.2.2 Communications Security (COMSEC)
TR: AFI 33-201V1                                  *                                                                     A        -        -       B        -        -
1.2.3 Operational Security (OPSEC)
TR: AFI 10-701                                    *                                                                     A        -        -       B        -        -
1.2.4 Physical Security
TR: AFI 31-101 & AFI 31-102                       *                                                                     A        -        -       B        -        -
1.2.5 Personnel Security
TR: AFI 31-501                                    *                                                                     A        -        -       B        -        -
1.2.6 Emission Security
TR: AFI 33-200 & AFSSI 7700                       *                                                                     A        -        -       B        -        -
1.2.7 Computer Security (COMPUSEC)
TR: AFI 33-200, AFSSI 8520 & AFMAN 33-
282                                               *                                                                     A        -        -       B        -        -
1.2.8 Intelligence Oversight Program
TR: AFI 14-104 & EO 12333                         *                                                                     A        -        -        -       -        -
1.2.9 SCI Classification
TR: DoD 5200.1-R, EO 12958-IS00, &
http://www.
intelink.sgov/sites/ssc/capco/default.aspx        *                                                                     A        -        -       B        -        -
1.2.10 Security Derivative Classification
TR: DoD 5200.1-R, EO 12958-IS00, DODM
5200.01V1, DODM 5200.01V2 & http://www.
intelink.sgov/sites/ssc/capco/default.aspx        *                                                                     A        -        -       B        -        -
1.2.11 Safeguard Classified
TR: DoD 5200.1-R, EO 12958 as amended &
AFI 16-201                                        *                                                                     2b       -        -       b        -        -
1.3 Organizations and Missions
1.3.1 Executive Branch
TR:
http://www.usa.gov/Agencies/Federal/Executi
ve.shtml                                                                                                                A        -        -       A        -        -
1.3.2 Air Force Intelligence
TR: Joint Pub 2-0, HAFMD 1-33, AFPD 14-2
& AFI 14-202V3                                                                                                          A        -        -       B        -        -
1.3.3 Intelligence Community                                                                                            A        -        -       B        -        -
1.3.4 Department of Defense (DoD)
TR: www.defense.gov
1.3.4.1 Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS)
TR: www.JCS.mil                                                                                                         A        -        -       B        -        -
1.3.4.2 Joint Operations
TR: Joint Pub 2-0
1.3.4.2.1 Unified Commands
TR: http://www.defense.gov/orgchart/#45                                                                                 A        -        -       B        -        -
1.3.4.2.2 Joint Task Force (JTF)
TR: Joint Pub 2-0 & Joint Pub 3-0                                                                                        -       -        -       B        -        -
1.3.4.3 USAF Major Commands (MAJCOM)
TR: www.afhra.maxwell.af.mil & AFPAM
26-2241                                                                                                                 A        -        -       B        -        -
1.3.4.4 US Cryptologic System and Service
Cryptologic Components (SCC)
TR: www.NSA.smil.mil & AFI 14-128                                                                                       A        -        -       B        -        -

                                                                      31
                                                2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                 C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC
1.3.4.5 Title 10, 18, 32, and 50
TR: United States Code                                                                                                   -       -        -       A        -        -
1.3.5 Coalition Forces
TR: Joint Pub 2-1 & AFI 16-201                                                                                          A        -        -       B        -        -
1.4 Contingency Operations
1.4.1 Expeditionary Air Force
TR: AFI 10-401 & AFI 10-402                                                                                             A        -        -       B        -        -
1.4.2 Marine Air Ground Task Force
(MAGTF)
TR: www.marines.mil/unit/26thMEU/Pages/a
bout/magtf.aspx                                                                                                          -       -        -       A        -        -
1.4.3 Naval Carrier/Expeditionary Strike
Group
TR: http://www.navy.mil/navydata/ships/carri
ers/powerhouse/cvbg.asp &
http://www.navy.mil/navydata/navy_legacy_hr
.asp?id=147                                                                                                              -       -        -       A        -        -
1.4.4 Brigade Combat Team (BCT)
TR: www.sbct.army.mil                                                                                                    -       -        -       A        -        -
1.4.5 Special Operations/Joint Special
Operations Task Force (JSOTF)
TR: Joint Pub 3-5.1                                                                                                      -       -        -       A        -        -
1.4.6 Personnel Recovery
TR: http://www.jpra.smil.mil, AFDD 2-0,
http://www.jpra.mil, AFI 13-1AOCv3 &
AFDD 3-50                                                                                                               A        -        -       B        -        -
1.4.7 OPORD/OPLAN
TR: AFDD 2-0                                                                                                            A        -        -       B        -        -
1.5 Intelligence Disciplines/AFSCs
1.5.1 Capabilities and limitations of SIGINT
TR: Air Force Enlisted Classification
Directory (AFECD) & www.intelligence.gov                                                                                B        -        -       B        -        -
1.5.2 Capabilities and limitations of MASINT
TR: AFECD & www.intelligence.gov                                                                                        B        -        -       B        -        -
1.5.3 Capabilities and limitations of HUMINT
TR: AFECD & www.intelligence.gov
                                                                                                                        B        -        -       B        -        -
1.5.4 Capabilities and limitations of GEOINT
TR: AFECD & www.intelligence.gov                                                                                        B        -        -       B        -        -
1.5.5 Capabilities and limitations of OSINT
TR: AFECD & www.intelligence.gov                                                                                        B        -        -       B        -        -
1.5.6 Functions of intelligence AFSCs
TR: AFECD & www.intelligence.gov                                                                                        B        -        -       B        -        -
1.6 Doctrine
1.6.1 Air Force Core Competencies
TR: AFDD 1 Chapter 5                                                                                                    A        -        -       B        -        -
1.6.2 Tenets of Air and Space Power
TR: AFDD-1 Chapter 4                                                                                                    A        -        -       B        -        -
1.6.3 Air Force & Joint Doctrine
TR: AFDD 1, Joint Pub 2-01, AFDD 3-12,
AFDD 3-72 & AFDD 3-14                                                                                                    -       -        -       B        -        -
1.7 Information Operations (IO)
1.7.1 Fundamentals of IO
TR: AFDD 3-13 & Joint Pub 3-13                                                                                          A        -        -       B        -        -
1.8 Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) Operations
1.8.1 ISR Process
1.8.1.1 Planning and Direction
TR: AFDD 2-0 & Joint Pub 2-0                                                                                            A        -        -       B        -        -
1.8.1.2 Collection
TR: AFDD 2-0 & Joint Pub 2-0                                                                                            A        -        -       B        -        -

                                                                      32
                                                2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                 C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC
1.8.1.3 Processing and Exploitation
TR: AFDD 2-0 & Joint Pub 2-0                                                                       A     -     -      B      -                                      -
1.8.1.4 Analysis and Production
TR: AFDD 2-0 & Joint Pub 2-0                                                                       A     -     -      B      -                                      -
1.8.1.5 Dissemination and Integration
TR: AFDD 2-0 & Joint Pub 2-0                                                                       A     -     -      B      -                                      -
1.8.1.6 Evaluation and Feedback
TR: AFDD 2-0 & Joint Pub 2-0                                                                       A     -     -      B      -                                      -
1.8.2 ISR Assets
1.8.2.1 Operational characteristics,
capabilities, and limitations of US and
coalition assets
TR: AFDD 2-0, Joint Pub 2-0, AFTTP 3-1 &
AFTTP 3-3                                                                                          A     -     -      B      -                                      -
1.9 Distributed Common Ground System (DCGS)
1.9.1 Structure and Mission
TR: AFTTP 3-1.DCGS & AFI 14-2DCGS                                                                  A     -     -      B      -                                      -
1.10 Air & Space Operations Center (AOC)
1.10.1 Structure and Mission
TR: AFTTP 3-1.AOC, AFI 10-401 &
AFI 13-1AOCV3                                                                                      A     -     -      B      -                                      -
1.11 Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment (IPOE)
TR: AFI 14-124, Joint Pub 2-01.3 & AFPAM 14-124
1.11.1 Intelligence Preparation of the
Operational Environment                                                                            A     -     -      B      -                                      -
1.12 Targeting
TR: AFDD 3-60, AF 14-117, AFPAM 14-210 & Joint Pub 3-60
1.12.1 Targeting Cycle                                                                             A     -     -      B      -                                      -
1.13 US and Friendly Forces Familiarization
TR: AFTTP 3-1 All Vols
1.13.1 Air, Space & Cyberspace
TR: AFDD 3-12 Chapter 1, AFDD 2-0 &
 http://www.naic.wrightpatterson.af.smil.mil/a
ero/                                                                                               A     -     -      B      -                                      -
1.13.2 Ground
TR: http://www.ngic.army.smil.mil/functionpg
s/armor                                                                                            -     -     -      A      -                                      -
1.13.3 Naval
TR: http://www.navy.mil/navydata/fact.asp                                                          -     -     -      A      -                                      -
1.14 Geospatial Information and Services (GI&S)
1.14.1 Identify marginal data and symbology
TR: Joint Pub 2-3                                                                                 1a     -     -      a      -                                      -
1.14.2 Manually Plot Coordinates
TR: Joint Pub 2-3                                                                                 2b     -     -      b      -                                      -
1.14.3 Perform time zone calculation
TR: http://www.nist.gov/pml/general/time/wor
ld.cfm                                                                                            1a     -     -      -      -                                      -
1.14.4 Geography
TR: http://www.worldatlas.com                                                                      A     -     -      -      -                                      -
1.15 Critical Thinking
TR: Richard J. Heuer, Jr., "Psychology of Intel Analysis"; Morgan Jones "The Thinkers Tool Kit"; http://www.criticalthinking.org
1.15.1 Apply Principles of Critical Thinking       *                                              1a     -     -      -      -                                      -
1.15.2 Critical Thinking                                                                           -     -     -      B      -                                      -
1.15.3 Conduct Online Data Search                                                                  a     -     -      b      -                                      -




                                                                      33
                                                  2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                 C
                                                                                                                          3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                  3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                             Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC

2. 1N1X1X Geospatial-Intelligence Analyst
2.1 Security Procedures
2.1.1 Categorize GEOINT information or
materials as classified or of possible
intelligence value
TR: AFI 31-401, EO 13526 & NGA Security
Classification Guide                                                                                                       -       -        -       b        -        -
2.1.2 Apply security markings to classified
GEOINT information
TR: CAPCO Implementation Manual, DOD
5200.1-R, EO 13526 & ISSO Marking Booklet                                                                                  -       -        -       b        -        -
2.1.3 Apply the procedures receive, transfer,
and account for classified GEOINT material
TR: AFI 31-401 & DOD 5200.1-R                                                                                              -       -        -       b        -        -
2.1.4 Identify the procedures for disclosure of
classified GEOINT information or material
TR: AFI 31-401                                                                                                             -       -        -       b        -        -
2.1.5 Identify the procedures to safeguard
and/or destroy classified GEOINT material
TR: AFI 31-401 & DOD 5200.1-R                                                                                              -       -        -       b        -        -
2.2 Operations Planning
2.2.1 Fundamentals of mission, objective,
purpose, and Commander’s Intent
TR: JP 1-02 & JP 3-0                                                                                                       -       -        -       A        -        -
2.2.2 Fundamentals of Combatant Command
Strategic Planning
TR: CJCSI 3100.01A, JP 2-01 & JP 3-0                                                                                       -       -        -       A        -        -
2.2.3 Elements of Joint Operations Planning
2.2.3.1 Deliberate Planning
TR: JP 3-08 & JP 5-0                                                                                                       -       -        -       A        -        -
2.2.3.2 Crisis Action Planning
2.2.3.2.1 Warning Order, Alert Order, Execute
Order
TR: AFI 10-401, JP 3-08 & JP 5-0                                                                                          A        -        -       A        -        -
2.2.3.2.2 Air and Integrated Tasking Order
(ATO/ITO)
TR: AFTTP 3-1.AOC, JP 3-30, JP-52 &
JP 3-60                                                                                                                   A        -        -       B        -        -
2.2.3.2.3 Operation Plan and Operation Order
(OPLAN/OPORD)
TR: AFI 10-401 & JP 5-0                                                                                                   A        -        -       B        -        -
2.2.3.2.4 Joint Air Operations Plan
TR: AFTTP 3-1.AOC & JP 3-30                                                                                                -       -        -       A        -        -
2.2.3.2.5 Concept of Employment
TR: CJCSI 5120.02B & JP 5-0                                                                                                -       -        -       A        -        -
2.2.3.2.6 Mission Type Orders
TR: AFTTP 3-1.AOC                                                                                                         A        -        -       A        -        -
2.2.4 Command Authority
2.2.4.1 Combatant Command (COCOM)
TR: JP 3-0                                                                                                                 -       -        -       A        -        -
2.2.4.2 Operational Control (OPCON)
TR: JP 3-0                                                                                                                 -       -        -       A        -        -
2.2.4.3 Tactical Control (TACON)
TR: JP 3-0                                                                                                                 -       -        -       A        -        -
2.2.4.4 Administrative Control (ADCON)
TR: JP 3-0                                                                                                                 -       -        -       A        -        -
2.2.5 Identify Allied War Fighting Strategies
and Tactics
TR: JP 3-0                                                                                                                 -       -        -       A        -        -

                                                                        34
                                                2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                 C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC
2.2.6 National Security Strategy Planning Process
2.2.6.1 National Security Communication
System
TR: JP 6-0                                                                                                               -       -        -        -       -        -
2.2.6.2 Planning, Programming, and
Budgeting System (PPBS)
TR: AFI 10-401                                                                                                           -       -        -        -       -        -
2.2.6.3 Joint Strategic Planning System (JSPS)
TR: AFI 10-401                                                                                                           -       -        -        -       -        -
2.2.7 Deployment Concepts
2.2.7.1 Deployment Plans
TR: AFI 10-403                                                                                                           -       -        -       A        -        -
2.2.7.2 Time-Phased Force Deployment Data
(TPFDD)
TR: AFI 10-403                                                                                                           -       -        -       A        -        -
2.3 Geospatial Intelligence (GEOINT) Analyst and Targeteer Duties and Responsibilities
2.3.1 Duties and responsibilities of the
GEOINT Analyst and Targeteer
TR: AFTTP 3-1.AOC, CJCSI 3110.08D,
GEOINT Doctrine Pub 1-0 & JP 2-03                 *                                                                     A        -        -       B        -        -
2.4 Communication and GEOINT Related Systems and Software
2.4.1 Manipulate imagery using an Electronic
Light Table (ELT)
TR: SOCET GXP User’s Manual &
RemoteView User’s Manual                                                                                                2b       -        -        -       -        -
2.4.2 Modernized Integrated Database (MIDB)
TR: JP 1-02, JP 2-01, & JP 3-60                                                                                         A        -        -       B        -        -
2.4.3 National Exploitation System (NES)
TR: National Exploitation System Help Page
Training Documents (e.g. NES 3.0 Floor
Support Reference Guide)                                                                                                A        -        -       B        -        -
2.4.4 Imagery Libraries
TR: BAE Q2 User’s Training Guide                                                                                        A        -        -       B        -        -
2.4.5 Produce and Retrieve information and
products using Imagery Product Libraries
TR: BAE Q2 User’s Training Guide                                                                                        2b       -        -        -       -        -
2.4.6 Full Motion Video Software
TR: SOCET GXP User’s Manual                                                                                             A        -        -       B        -        -
2.4.7 Requirements Tasking System (using
system of record)
TR: JP 2-01 & JP 2-03                                                                                                    -       -        -       B        -        -
2.4.8 The Global Information Grid (GIG)
TR: JP 6-0                                                                                                               -       -        -       B        -        -
2.4.9 The Intelligence Community (IC) portion
of the GIG (such as Wide Area Network
(WAN) and Local Area Network (LAN))
TR: JP 6-0                                                                                                               -       -        -       A        -        -
2.4.10 Military Strategic and Tactical Relay
System (MILSTAR)
TR: JP 6-0                                                                                                               -       -        -       B        -        -
2.4.11 Defense Satellite Communications
Systems (DSCS)
TR: JP 6-0                                                                                                               -       -        -       B        -        -
2.4.12 Commercial C, Ka and Ku bands
TR: JP 6-0                                                                                                               -       -        -       A        -        -
2.5 Air Force Remotely Piloted Aircraft (RPA) Architecture
2.5.1 Air Force RPA Platforms
TR: AFTTP 3-1.AOC, AFTTP 3-1.DCGS,
AFTTP 3-1.MQ-9, AFTTP 3-1.Predator &
AFTTP 3-1.RQ-4                                                                                                          A        -        -       B        -        -


                                                                      35
                                                 2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                 C
                                                                                                                          3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                  3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                             Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC
2.5.2 Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
(TTP)
TR: AFTTP 3-1 Series                                                                                                       -       -        -       B        -        -
2.5.3 Launch Recovery Elements (LRE) and
Mission Control Elements (MCE)
TR: AFTTP 3-1.DCGS, AFTTP 3-1.MQ-9,
AFTTP 3-1.Predator & AFTTP 3-1.RQ-4                                                                                        -       -        -       B        -        -
2.5.4 RPA System Controls (such as legacy,
Multi-Aircraft Control (MAC), and Fixed)
TR: AFTTP 3-1.DCGS, AFTTP 3-1.MQ-9,
AFTTP 3-1.Predator & AFTTP 3-1.RQ-4                                                                                        -       -        -       B        -        -
2.5.5 RPA Communication Network
TR: AFTTP 3-1.DCGS, AFTTP 3-1.MQ-9,
AFTTP 3-1.Predator & AFTTP 3-1.RQ-4                                                                                        -       -        -       B        -        -
2.6 Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR)
2.6.1 Types, capabilities and limitations of
Optical, RADAR, Infra-Red, Spectral, and
motion Geospatial Sensors (Analog and
Digital)
TR: CJCSI 3110.08D & JP 2-03                        *                                                                     A        -        -       B        -        -
2.6.2 Types, capabilities, and limitations of Geospatial Platforms
2.6.2.1 National
TR: CJCSI 3110.08D & JP 2-03                                                                                              A        -        -       B        -        -
2.6.2.2 Airborne
TR: AFTTP 3-1 Series                                                                                                      A        -        -       B        -        -
2.6.2.3 Commercial
TR: CJCSI 3110.08D, JP 2-03 & MID-156-00                                                                                  A        -        -       B        -        -
2.6.3 Sensor defects and malfunctions
TR: AFTTP 3-1 Series & NTTP 3-55.11                                                                                       A        -        -       B        -        -
2.6.4 ISR Tasking, Collection, Processing,
Exploitation and Dissemination (TCPED)
process for GEOINT
TR: JP 2-03                                                                                                               A        -        -       B        -        -
2.6.5 Indications and Warning (I&W)
TR: JP 1-02, JP 2-0 & JP 2-01                                                                                             A        -        -       B        -        -
2.6.6 General Military Intelligence (GMI)
TR: JP 1-02 & JP 2-0                                                                                                      A        -        -       B        -        -
2.6.7 ISR support to missions (such as
Counter-Air, Strategic Attack, Air Mobility,
Special Operations, Combat Search and
Rescue (CSAR), Close Air Support (CAS),
Non-Traditional ISR (NTISR), Counter-Drug,
Counter-Terrorism, Force Protection,
Noncombatant Evacuation Operations (NEO))
TR: JP 1, JP 2-0, JP 2-01, JP 2-03 & JP 3-50                                                                              A        -        -       B        -        -
2.6.8 ISR collection management
2.6.8.1 Intelligence Problems
TR: JP 2-0                                                                                                                 -       -        -       B        -        -
2.6.8.2 Collection Requirements
TR: JP 2-0 & JP 2-01                                                                                                       -       -        -       B        -        -
2.6.8.3 Exploitation Requirements
TR: JP 2-03                                                                                                                -       -        -       B        -        -
2.6.8.4 Essential Elements of Information
(EEI)
TR: JP 2-0 & JP 2-01                                                                                                      A        -        -       B        -        -
2.6.8.5 Request for Information (RFI) process
TR: JP 2-0 & JP 2-01                                                                                                      A        -        -       B        -        -
2.7 Targeting
2.7.1 Structural Composition
TR: DIA DDB-2800-9-88 & DI-2800-2                                                                                         A        -        -       B        -        -


                                                                        36
                                                2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                 C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC
2.7.2 Time-Sensitive Targeting (TST) process
TR: JP 1-02 & JP 3-60                                                                                                   A        -        -       B        -        -
2.7.3 Find, Fix, Track, Target, Engage and
Assess (F2T2EA or Kill Chain)
TR: JP 3-60                                                                                                             A        -        -       B        -        -
2.7.4 Rules of Engagement (ROE)
TR: JP 1-02 & JP 1-04                                                                                                   A        -        -       B        -        -
2.8 Still and Motion Imagery Fundamentals and Analysis
2.8.1 Electromagnetic Spectrum
TR: JP 1-02 & JP 3-13.1                         *                                                                       A        -        -       B        -        -
2.8.2 Digital imagery principles
2.8.2.1 Image composition (such as pixels &
file size)
TR: STDI-0002                                                                                                           A        -        -       B        -        -
2.8.2.2 Anomalies and Malfunctions
TR: AFTTP 3-1.DCGS                                                                                                      A        -        -       B        -        -
2.8.2.3 Metadata
TR: http://www.fgdc.gov/                                                                                                A        -        -       B        -        -
2.8.2.4 Image Formats
TR: MIL-STD-2500C National Imagery
Transmission Format Version 2.1                                                                                         A        -        -       B        -        -
2.8.2.5 Image Compression
TR: MIL-STD-2500C National Imagery
Transmission Format Version 2.1                                                                                         A        -        -       B        -        -
2.8.3 Apply Critical Thinking to Geospatial
Intelligence Analysis
TR: Critical Thinking and Intelligence
Analysis, David T. Moore, National Defense
Intelligence College, 2007; Psychology of
Intel Analysis, Richard Heuer; The Thinkers
Tool Kit, Morgan Jones                                                                                                  2b       -        -       b        -        -
2.8.4 Perform Denial and Deception
Assessment
TR: NTTP 3-55.11                                                                                                        2b       -        -       b        -        -
2.8.5 Perform Functional Analysis
TR: AFPAM 14-210; AFDD 2-1.9 & JP 3-60                                                                                  2b       -        -       b        -        -
2.8.6 Perform Damage Assessment
TR: AFPAM 14-210; AFDD 2-1.9 & JP 3-60                                                                                  2b       -        -       b        -        -
2.8.7 Perform Surveillance activities
TR: AFTTP 3-1.MQ-1                                                                                                      2b       -        -       b        -        -
2.8.8 Perform Reconnaissance activities
TR: AFTTP 3-1.U-2                                                                                                       2b       -        -       b        -        -
2.8.9 Perform Intelligence Research
TR: JP 2-0                                        *                                                                     2b       -        -       b        -        -
2.8.10 Use and prepare intelligence reference
documents
TR: AFI 14-105                                    *                                                                     2b       -        -       b        -        -
2.8.11 Defense Intelligence Analysis Program
TR: JP 2-0 & JP 2-01.3                                                                                                  A        -        -       B        -        -
2.8.12 Perform mensuration
TR: SOCET GXP User’s Manual &
RemoteView User’s Manual                                                                                                2b       -        -        -       -        -
2.8.13 National Imagery Interpretability
Rating Scale
TR: NGA's 1994 NIIRS Guide                                                                                              A        -        -       b        -        -
2.8.14 Prepare and deliver intelligence
briefings
TR: AFI 14-105 & AFH 33-337                                                                                             2b       -        -        -       -        -


                                                                      37
                                                 2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                      Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                 C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                 3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                            Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC
2.9 Geospatial Information and Services (GI&S)
2.9.1 GI&S Fundamentals
TR: AFI 14-205, JP 2-03 & GEOINT Doctrine
Pub 1-0                                                                                                                  A        -        -        -       -        -
2.9.2 GI&S Support Organizations (such as
NGA, Defense Logistics Agency (DLA),
Army Corps of Engineers)
TR: AFI 14-205 & JP 2-03                                                                                                 A        -        -        -       -        -
2.9.3 Foundation Based Operations (FBO)
2.9.3.1 Foundation data
TR: AFI 14-205                                                                                                           A        -        -       B        -        -
2.9.3.2 Mission Specific Data (MSD) (Such as
Forward Line of Own Troops (FLOT), threat
rings, Restricted Operating Zones (ROZ))
TR: AFI 14-205                                                                                                           A        -        -       B        -        -
2.9.3.3 Digital GI&S products (Controlled
Image Base (CIB), Digital Point Positioning
DataBase (DPPDB), Digital Terrain Elevation
Data (DTED))
TR: AFI 14-205& GEOINT Doctrine Pub 1-0                                                                                  A        -        -       B        -        -
2.9.3.4 Horizontal and Vertical Datums
TR: AFI 14-205 & DMA 8358.1                                                                                               -       -        -       B        -        -
2.9.3.5 Plot coordinates using geographic
coordinate systems (such as DD.MM.SS,
Military Grid Reference System (MGRS))
TR: JP 1-02 & DMA 8358.1                                                                                                 2b       -        -       b        -        -
2.9.3.6 Convert Coordinates                                                                                              2b       -        -       b        -        -
2.9.4 GI&S Applications
2.9.4.1 Targeting
TR: AFI 14-205, JP 1-02 & DMA 8358.1                                                                                     A        -        -       B        -        -
2.9.4.2 Military Airlift
TR: AFTTP 3-1.AOC                                                                                                        A        -        -       B        -        -
2.9.4.3 Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR)
TR: AFI 14-205 & JP 3-50                                                                                                 A        -        -       B        -        -
2.9.4.4 Briefing Support
TR: AFH 33-337 & AFI 14-105                                                                                              A        -        -       B        -        -
2.9.4.5 Close Air Support (CAS)
TR: AFI 14-205, JP 2-03, & JP 3-09.3                                                                                     A        -        -       B        -        -
2.10 Supervision
2.10.1 Plan and prioritize work assignments
TR: AFI 14-202 & 36-2406                                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -        -
2.10.2 Establish work methods, controls, and
performance standards
TR: AFI 14-202 & 36-2406                                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -        -
2.10.3 Evaluate performance of assigned
personnel
TR: AFI 14-202 & 36-2406                                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -        -
2.10.4 Prepare and maintain operating
instructions and checklists
TR: AFI 14-202 & 36-2406                                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -        -
2.10.5 Purpose of and conduct unit self
inspections
TR: AFI 14-202 & 36-2406                                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -        -
2.10.6 Counsel assigned personnel on the
enlisted assignment process
TR: AFI 14-202 & 36-2110                                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -        -
2.11 Training
2.11.1 Evaluate personnel and recommend and
schedule required training
TR: AFI 14-202 & 36-2201                                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -        -

                                                                       38
                                                2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                 C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC
2.11.2 Prepare and maintain job qualification
standards (JQS)
TR: AFI 14-202 & 36-2201                                                                                                 -       -        -        -       -        -
2.11.3 Plan and conduct on-the-job-training
(OJT)
TR: AFI 14-202 & 36-2201                                                                                                 -       -        -        -       -        -
2.11.4 Conduct proficiency task evaluations
TR: AFI 14-202 & 36-2201                                                                                                 -       -        -        -       -        -
2.11.5 Document and maintain individual OJT
records
TR: AFI 14-202 & 36-2201                                                                                                 -       -        -        -       -        -
3. 1N1X1A (Geospatial-Intelligence (GEOINT) Analyst) Tasks Knowledge and Technical References
3.1 Imagery Analysis
3.1.1 Advanced Geospatial Intelligence
techniques (such as Coherent Change
Detection (CCD), Two Color Multi View
(2CMV) Dynamic Image (DI), Ground
Moving Target Indicator (GMTI), TERrain
CATegorization (TERCAT), spectral imagery)
TR: JP 2-0 & JP 2-03                                                                                                    B        -        -        -       -        -
3.1.2 Wide Area Surveillance Platforms &
Sensors
TR: AFTTP 3-1.RQ-4                                                                                                      A        -        -        -       -        -
3.1.3 Broad Area Search (BAS) and Directed
Area Search (DAS)
TR: AFTTP 3-1.DCGS                                                                                                      A        -        -        -       -        -
3.1.4 Cross Cueing
TR: AFTTP 3-1.DCGS, AFTTP 3-1.AOC,
AFTTP 3-1.MQ-1 & AFTTP 3-1.U-2                                                                                          A        -        -        -       -        -
3.1.5 Manipulate Full Motion Video (FMV)
TR: SOCET GXP User’s Manual &
RemoteView User’s Manual                                                                                                2b       -        -        -       -        -
3.1.6 Perform Full Motion Video (FMV)
analysis within a problem set
TR: SOCET GXP User’s Manual & Advanced
Intelligence Multimedia Exploitation Suite
(AIMES) User’s Manual                                                                                                   2b       -        -        -       -        -
3.1.7 Apply Essential Elements of Information
(EEI) to imagery reporting
TR: AFTTP 3-1.DCGS & AFTTP 3-1.AOC                                                                                      2b       -        -        -       -        -
3.1.8 Prepare imagery-derived reports and
products
TR: AFI 14-105                                                                                                          2b       -        -        -       -        -
3.1.9 Review, validate, and transmit
intelligence reports
TR: AFI 14-105                                                                                                           -       -        -        -       -        -
3.1.10 Use Imagery Exploitation Support
system (IESS) or equivalent
TR: General Dynamics Imagery Analyst Core
Training                                                                                                                2b       -        -        -       -        -
3.1.11 Build GI&S products in Campaign and
Mission Planning
TR: AFI 14-205, JP 2-0 & JP 2-01                                                                                        2b       -        -        -       -        -
3.1.12 Law of Armed Conflict as applied to
the role of the analyst
TR: AFI 51-401 &
http://www.icrc.org/ihl.nsf/CONVPRES?Open
View                                                                                                                    A        -        -        -       -        -



                                                                      39
                                                2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                      Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                 C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                 3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                            Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC
3.1.13 Prepare and deliver a situation brief
TR: AFTTP 3-1.DCGS & AFTTP 3-1.U-2                                                                                       2b       -        -        -       -        -
3.1.14 Apply critical thinking to Geospatial
Intelligence Analysis
TR: Critical Thinking and Intelligence
Analysis, David T. Moore, National Defense
Intelligence College, 2007; Psychology of
Intel Analysis, Richard Heuer; The Thinkers
Tool Kit, Morgan Jones                                                                                                   2b       -        -        -       -        -
3.1.15 Score Imagery using appropriate
interpretability rating scale (such as NIIRS or
similar scale)
TR: Nation Imagery Interpretability Rating
Scale (NIIRS) – March 1994                                                                                               2b       -        -        -       -        -
3.2 Military Facilities and Associated Order of Battle (OB)
3.2.1 Air Order of Battle (AOB)
TR: NGA Keys
3.2.1.1 Identify airfields, associated facilities,
and Air Order of Battle (AOB)                                                                                            2b       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.1.2 Identify airfield facilities & features                                                                           -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.1.3 Identify wing shape, mount, and tip
shape                                                                                                                     -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.1.4 Identify engine number, type, and
location                                                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.1.5 Identify fuselage shape                                                                                           -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.1.6 Identify number and shape of vertical
stabilizer                                                                                                                -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.1.7 Identify shape and mount of horizontal
stabilizer                                                                                                                -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.1.8 Measure length of aircraft and
wingspan                                                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.2 Defensive Missile Order of Battle (DMOB)
TR: NGA Keys
3.2.2.1 Identify defensive missile systems,
facilities, and missile order of battle (MOB)                                                                            2b       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.2.2 Identify Defensive Missile Facilities                                                                             -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.2.3 Identify number and shape of
containers                                                                                                                -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.2.4 Identify number of missiles and fin
mount                                                                                                                     -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.2.5 Identify presence of booster and/or
engine type                                                                                                               -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.2.6 Identify common features like
containerized/missile gun                                                                                                 -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.2.7 Identify transport mode                                                                                           -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.2.8 Identify rail or silo based                                                                                       -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.2.9 Measure missile, container, and
launcher dimensions                                                                                                       -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.3 Offensive Missile Order of Battle (OMOB)
TR: NGA Keys
3.2.3.1 Identify offensive missile, space
systems, facilities, and order of battle (OB)                                                                            2b       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.3.2 Identify offensive missile facilities                                                                             -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.3.3 Identify number and shape of
containers                                                                                                                -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.3.4 Identify number of missiles and fin
mount                                                                                                                     -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.3.5 Identify presence of booster or fin type                                                                          -       -        -        -       -        -



                                                                       40
                                                   2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                        Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                 C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                   3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                              Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC
3.2.3.6 Identify common features like
containerized/missile gun                                                                                                   -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.3.7 Identify transport mode                                                                                             -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.3.8 Identify rail or silo based                                                                                         -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.3.9 Measure missile, container, launcher
dimensions                                                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4 Ground Order of Battle (GOB)
TR: NGA Keys
3.2.4.1 Identify military facilities and ground
order of battle (GOB)                                                                                                      2b       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.2 Armored Vehicles                                                                                                    -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.2.1 Identify body shape, number, and
location of hatches                                                                                                         -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.2.2 Identify tracked or wheeled, number
of road and return wheels, number of axles                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.2.3 Identify turret shape, location, and
number of hatches                                                                                                           -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.2.4 Identify muzzle position and brake
                                                                                                                            -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.2.5 Identify bore evacuator location and
diameter of armament                                                                                                        -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.2.6 Measure body length and width                                                                                     -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.3 Artillery
3.2.4.3.1 Identify tracked or wheeled, number
of road and return wheels, and number of axles                                                                              -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.3.2 Identify towed artillery as tracked or
wheeled and number of axles                                                                                                 -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.3.3 Identify presence of limber,
outriggers, and casters                                                                                                     -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.3.4 Identify trail, tube trail size, and
shield                                                                                                                      -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.3.5 Identify top/side cylinders and shape
of muzzle brake                                                                                                             -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.3.6 Identify number of missiles or gun-
type                                                                                                                        -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.3.7 Identify diameter of gun armament                                                                                 -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.3.8 Identify rocket mobility/launcher
type                                                                                                                        -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.3.9 Identify number of rocket tubes, and
presence of reloads                                                                                                         -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.3.10 Identify diameter of rocket
armament                                                                                                                    -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.3.11 Identify mobility of mortar, base
plate, and support                                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.3.12 Identify diameter of mortar
armament                                                                                                                    -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.3.13 Measure body length and body
width                                                                                                                       -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.4 Air Defense Gun and Gun Missile Systems
3.2.4.4.1 Identify key features on self-
propelled guns and systems                                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.4.2 Identify key features of towed guns
and systems                                                                                                                 -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.4.3 Identify key features of the guns of
self-propelled and towed systems                                                                                            -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.4.4 Measure body length and body width                                                                                -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.5 Trucks and Trailers
3.2.4.5.1 Identify features of a utility truck                                                                              -       -        -        -       -        -


                                                                         41
                                                2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A      B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                 C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC
3.2.4.5.2 Identify features of a cargo body                                                                              -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.5.3 Identify features of a cargo cab                                                                               -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.5.4 Identify chassis type of trucks and
trailers                                                                                                                 -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.5.5 Identify features of cargo trailers                                                                            -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.5.6 Measure body length and body width                                                                             -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.6 Engineering Equipment
3.2.4.6.1 Identify general features                                                                                      -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.6.2 Identify cab and body type                                                                                     -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.6.3 Identify type of mobile crane                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.6.4 Measure body length and body width                                                                             -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.7 Bridging
3.2.4.7.1 Identify general features                                                                                      -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.7.2 Identify cab and body type                                                                                     -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.7.3 Identify body length and body width                                                                            -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.8 Nuclear, Biological, Chemical/Obscurants
3.2.4.8.1 Identify general features                                                                                      -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.4.8.2 Measure body length and body width                                                                             -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.5 Naval Order of Battle (NOB)
TR: NGA Keys
3.2.5.1 Identify port, harbor facilities, and
navel order of battle (NOB)                                                                                             2b       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.5.2 Use reporting position (RP) to identify
naval vessel                                                                                                             -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.5.3 Surface Ships
3.2.5.3.1 Identify features of hull                                                                                      -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.5.3.2 Identify bow and stern shape                                                                                   -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.5.3.3 Identify bridge location, stack
number, and configuration                                                                                                -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.5.3.4 Identify presence of missile launcher
and location                                                                                                             -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.5.3.5 Identify presence of torpedo tube                                                                              -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.5.3.6 Identify number, configuration, and
location of main guns                                                                                                    -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.5.3.7 Identify type and configuration of
flight deck                                                                                                              -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.5.3.8 Identify helicopter pad                                                                                        -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.5.3.9 Measure overall length and beam                                                                                -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.5.3.10 Measure waterline length and beam                                                                             -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.5.4 Submarines
3.2.5.4.1 Identify sail placement and shape                                                                              -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.5.4.2 Identify bow shape                                                                                             -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.5.4.3 Identify diving plane location                                                                                 -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.5.4.4 Identify upper rudder                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.5.4.5 Identify presence, height, and
location of missile bay                                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.5.4.6 Identify number of missile doors                                                                               -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.5.4.7 Measure overall length and beam                                                                                -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.5.4.8 Measure waterline length and beam                                                                              -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.6 Electronics & Communications Facilities
TR: NGA Keys
3.2.6.1 Identify electronics, communications
facilities, and order of battle                                                                                         2b       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.6.2 Identify electronic and communication
facilities                                                                                                               -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.6.3 Identify antenna                                                                                                 -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.6.4 Identify array type                                                                                              -       -        -        -       -        -


                                                                      42
                                                2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                 C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC
3.2.6.5 Identify mount and mobility                                                                                      -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.6.6 Identify frequency band                                                                                          -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.6.7 Identify composition, shape, and
configuration of parabolic sail or dish details                                                                          -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.6.8 Measure length and width                                                                                         -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.6.9 Measure antenna height and width                                                                                 -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.6.10 Measure antenna parabolic dish
diameter                                                                                                                 -       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.7 Identify Industrial facilities and
Infrastructure
TR: NGA Keys                                                                                                            2b       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.8 Identify Lines of Communication (LOC)                                                                             2b       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.9 Identify Objects and Non Traditional
Order of Battle (such as rolling stock,
personnel vehicles (vans, cars, trucks)
livestock, crates)
TR: NGA Keys                                                                                                            2b       -        -        -       -        -
3.2.10 Identify Underground Facilities
TR: NGA Keys                                                                                                            2b       -        -        -       -        -
3.3 Terrain Analysis
3.3.1 Perform Landing Zone Studies (such as
Drop Zone (DZ), Helicopter Landing Zone
(HLZ))
TR: ARMY FM 5-33                                                                                                        2b       -        -        -       -        -
3.3.2 Perform Beach Studies
TR: ARMY FM 5-33                                                                                                        2b       -        -        -       -        -
3.4 Integrated Exercise
3.4.1 Perform operations centered Geospatial-
Intelligence analysis in an exercise that is
integrated with other intelligence disciplines                                                                          2b       -        -        -       -        -
3.5 Air Force Distributed Common Ground Station (DCGS) Architecture
3.5.1 Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
(TTP)
TR: AFTTP 3-1.DCGS                                                                                                      A        -        -        -       -        -
3.5.2 Core and Remote Sites
TR: AFTTP 3-1.DCGS                                                                                                      A        -        -        -       -        -
3.5.3 DCGS Processing, Exploitation, and
Dissemination
TR: AFTTP 3-1.DCGS                                                                                                      A        -        -        -       -        -
3.5.4 DCGS Operations Center
TR: AFTTP 3-1.DCGS                                                                                                      A        -        -        -       -        -
3.5.5 Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) Full
Motion Video (FMV) processing capabilities
TR: AFTTP 3-1.DCGS                                                                                                      A        -        -        -       -        -
3.5.6 DCGS and AOC relationship and
interaction
TR: AFTTP 3-1.AOC & AFTTP 3-1.DCGS                                                                                      A        -        -        -       -        -
4. 1N1X1B (Geospatial-Intelligence (GEOINT) Targeteer) Tasks Knowledge and Technical References
4.1 Objectives and Guidance
4.1.1 Deliberate/Joint Planning Process; such
as Crisis Action Planning, Deliberate
Planning, and Joint Development Air
Campaign Planning
TR: JP 5-0                                                                                                              A        -        -        -       -        -
4.1.2 Law of Armed Conflict (LOAC) and the
role of the targeteer to include the use of
restricted and no-strike lists
TR: JP 3-60, AFDD 3-60 & CJCSI 3160               *                                                                     B        -        -        -       -        -



                                                                      43
                                                 2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                      Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                 C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                 3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                            Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC
4.1.3 Rules of Engagement (ROE) and the role
of the targeteer, to include the use of restricted
and no-strike lists
TR: JP 3-60 & CJCSI 3160                            *                                                                    B        -        -        -       -        -
4.1.4 Roles, responsibilities, processes, and
functions of targeting decision-making,
coordination, and support organizations and
elements to include: Joint Task Force, Joint
Targeting Coordination Board, Joint Targeting
Working Group, Joint Force Component
Commander
TR: JP 3-60, JP 5-0, JP 3-33, AFDD 3-60 &
AFTTP 3-1.AOC                                                                                                            A        -        -        -       -        -
4.1.5 Roles, responsibilities, processes,
functions and relationships of targeting
decision-making, coordination, and support
organizations and elements to include: Joint
Force Air Component Commander,
National/Theater Intelligence organizations,
AOC Strategy and Combat Plans Division
TR: JP 3-60, JP 5-0, JP 3-33, AFDD 3-60 &
AFTTP 3-1.AOC                                                                                                            B        -        -        -       -        -
4.1.6 Uses and roles of objectives and guidance in the targeting process
4.1.6.1 Objectives and guidance development
for the targeting process
TR: JP 3-60, JP 5-0 & AFDD 3-60                                                                                          A        -        -        -       -        -
4.1.7 Processes of effects based operations
TR: CJCSI 3370.01 & Call Handbook 05-19                                                                                  A        -        -        -       -        -
4.1.8 Characteristics of weapons and their uses
4.1.8.1 Guided
TR: JWS Software & Air Armament Center
Weapons File                                                                                                             A        -        -        -       -        -
4.1.8.2 Unguided
TR: JWS Software & Air Armament Center
Weapons File                                                                                                             A        -        -        -       -        -
4.1.8.3 Warheads
TR: JWS Software & Air Armament Center
Weapons File                                                                                                             A        -        -        -       -        -
4.1.8.4 Fusing
TR: JWS Software & Air Armament Center
Weapons File                                                                                                             A        -        -        -       -        -
4.1.9 Aircraft and load outs
TR: JWS Software & Air Armament Center
Weapons File                                                                                                             A        -        -        -       -        -
4.1.10 Prepare and present a brief on the
capabilities and use of a specified weapon
TR: JWS Software & Air Armament Center
Weapons File                                                                                                             2b       -        -        -       -        -
4.1.11 Apply critical thinking to Geospatial
Intelligence Targeting
TR: AFPAM 14-118, JP 3-60, & AFDD 3-60                                                                                   2b       -        -        -       -        -
4.2 Target Development
4.2.1 Target development
TR: JP 3-60, AFDD 3-60 & CJCSI 3370.01              *                                                                    B        -        -        -       -        -
4.2.2 Perform target system analysis
TR: JP 3-60, AFDD 3-60 & CJCSI 3370.01                                                                                   2b       -        -        -       -        -
4.2.3 Perform database maintenance and
queries to extract weaponeering and targeting
data using currently fielded
targeting/weaponeering applications
TR: CJCSI 3370.01& JTT Software,                                                                                         2b       -        -        -       -        -

                                                                       44
                                                  2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                 C
                                                                                                                          3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                  3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                             Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC
4.2.4 Threat Systems (IADS/Air, Naval,
Ground)
TR: CJCSI 3370.01, JP 2-0, AFTTP 3-1.2, &
AFPAM 14-118                                                                                                              A        -        -        -       -        -
4.2.5 Target development process
4.2.5.1 Target materials and the target
materials production process
TR: CJCSI 3370.01 & DIAI 3000.002                                                                                         A        -        -        -       -        -
4.2.5.2 Roles of component, joint, national and
coalition intelligence organizations
TR: JP 2-03                                                                                                               A        -        -        -       -        -
4.2.5.3 System of record collaborative tools
(example: IWS, MIRCchat, etc.)
TR: MiIRC Software, IWS Software, &
JADOCS Software                                                                                                            -       -        -        -       -        -
4.2.5.4 Review intelligence and conduct
gain/loss assessment in the development of
target lists
TR: JP 3-60 & CJCSI 3370.01                                                                                                -       -        -        -       -        -
4.2.6 Perform target list management
TR: JP 3-60, AFDD 3-60, CJCSI 3370.01, &
AFTTP 3-1.AOC                                                                                                             2b       -        -        -       -        -
4.2.7 Prepare and present a target development
brief
TR: JP 3-60, AFDD 3-60, & CJCSI 3370.01                                                                                   2b       -        -        -       -        -
4.2.8 Create target folder
TR: CJCSI 3370.01, DIAI 3000.002, &
MCR 55-125                                                                                                                2b       -        -        -       -        -
4.2.9 Point Positioning Process
4.2.9.1 Capabilities and limitations of Point
Positioning Process
TR: CJCSI 3505.01, CJCSI 3900.01, &
SOCET GXP CGS Software                                                                                                    B        -        -        -       -        -
4.2.9.2 Perform verification of a mensurated
point using the AF system of record
TR: SOCET GXP CGS Software                                                                                                2b       -        -        -       -        -
4.2.9.3 Perform mensuration to derive
coordinate information using AF systems of
record and approved processes (MIG, Direct,
Registration)
TR: SOCET GXP CGS Software                                                                                                1a       -        -        -       -        -
4.2.10 Develop valid RFIs and CRs to meet
targeting intelligence needs
TR: JP 2-03                                                                                                               1a       -        -        -       -        -
4.3 Weaponeering Assessment
4.3.1 Kinetic and non-kinetic force application
as it relates to weaponeering assessment
TR: JP 3-60, JP 3-13, AFDD 2-5,
AFTTP 3-1.IO & AFDD 3-60                                                                                                  A        -        -        -       -        -
4.3.2 Weapons Effects
TR: JWS Software                                                                                                          B        -        -        -       -        -
4.3.3 Research and assign surrogate targets
TR: JWS Software                                                                                                          2b       -        -        -       -        -
4.3.4 Air-to-surface and surface-to-surface
weaponeering theories for Joint Munitions
Effects Manuals methodologies
TR: JWS Software                                                                                                          B        -        -        -       -        -
4.3.5 Perform CDE targeting methodology
according to CJCS 3160.1
TR: CJCSI 3160.1                                                                                                          2b       -        -        -       -        -


                                                                        45
                                                2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                 C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC
4.3.6 Conduct research and extract selected US
weapon configurations and capabilities
TR: JWS Software                                                                               2b  -      -                                        -       -        -
4.3.7 Components of bombing accuracy to
include coordinate seeking weapons
TR: JWS Software                                                                               B   -      -                                        -       -        -
4.3.8 Target Materials
4.3.8.1 Research and derive required data on
selected US platform characteristics,
payload/profiles, delivery parameters, and
employment tactics
TR: JWS Software                                                                               2b  -      -                                        -       -        -
4.3.8.2 Geospatial information and
environmental considerations for targeting
TR: JP 3-60 & AFDD 3-60                                                                        B   -      -                                        -       -        -
4.3.9 Solve conventional weaponeering
problems using programs of record
TR: JWS Software                                                                               2b  -      -                                        -       -        -
4.3.10 Solve Advanced Weaponeering Problems
4.3.10.1 Research and solve air-to-surface and
surface-to-surface weaponeering problems
TR: JWS Software & IMEA Software                                                                -  -      -                                        -       -        -
4.3.10.2 Perform weaponeering techniques
using Integrated Munitions Effects Assessment
(IMEA)
TR: IMEA Software                                                                              1a  -      -                                        -       -        -
4.3.11 Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) effects and expected collateral damage from attacks on WMD facilities
4.3.11.1 Responsible agencies and products for
hazard prediction
TR: HPAC Factsheet & DTRA SIPRNET
Website ( http://www.dtra.smil.mil/ )                                                          A   -      -                                        -       -        -
4.3.11.2 Capabilities and effects of weapon
systems under development
TR: Air Armament Center Weapons File                                                           A   -      -                                        -       -        -
4.4 Force Applications
4.4.1 Coordination process within the Air
Tasking Order (ATO)
TR: AFTTP 3-1.AOC                                                                              A   -      -                                        -       -        -
4.4.2 Describe the integration of combat and
combat support forces for joint/combined
operations to include capabilities and
limitations
TR: AFTTP 3-1.AOC, JP 3-60, JP 5-0, JP 3-33
& USJFCOM Joint Fires and Targeting
Handbook                                                                                        -  -      -                                        -       -        -
4.4.3 Perform force packaging support for
deliberate and dynamic targeting
TR: JP 3-60, AFDD 3-60 & AFTTP 3-1.AOC                                                          -  -      -                                        -       -        -
4.5 Execution Planning
4.5.1 Unit targeting functions, roles and
responsibilities
TR: AFI 14-202 (Vol 3) & AFDD 3-60                                                             B   -      -                                        -       -        -
4.5.2 Interdependency of AOC and unit
targeting functions
TR: AFTTP 3-1.AOC                                                                              B   -      -                                        -       -        -
4.5.3 Perform AOC Combat Operations
targeting functions including ATO breakout,
diverts, re-roles, TSTs and Dynamic targets
using the current system of record
TR: AFTTP 3-1.AOC, JP 3-60, & AFDD 3-60                                                        2b  -      -                                        -       -        -


                                                                      46
                                                2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                 C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC
4.5.4 Mission Planning Process Related to Targeting
TR: AFI 14-103, AFI 14-117, AFI 13-1 Vol 3, AFPAM 14-210 & AFTTP 3-1 Vols 1-25 (as applicable)
4.5.4.1 Mission Profiles                                                                   B                                     -        -        -       -        -
4.5.4.2 Perform threat and terrain route
analysis                                                                                  2b                                     -        -        -       -        -
4.5.4.3 Perform threat and terrain analysis
within the target area                                                                    2b                                     -        -        -       -        -
4.5.4.4 Air Drop Estimation
TR: Tactics Bulletin 10-03 (July 2010 –
Targeting Center CDS Bundle/Air Drop
Damage Methodology)
http://www.nellis.af.smil.mil/units/561jts ,
Tactics Bulletin 11-01 (May 2011 – Low Cost
Low Altitude Airdrop) & JP 3-17                                                            -                                     -        -        -       -        -
4.5.4.5 Perform target and objective area
analysis                                                                                  2b                                     -        -        -       -        -
4.5.4.6 Initial points, offset aim points, and
way points                                                                                 B                                     -        -        -       -        -
4.5.5 Manual Mission Planning as related to Targeting
TR: AFI 14-103, AFI 14-117, AFI 13-1 Vol 3, AFPAM 14-210 & AFTTP 3-1 Vols 1-25 (as applicable)
4.5.5.1 Recommend mission profiles based on
route threat and terrain analysis, target,
objective, and aimpoint analysis, and
recommend initial points, offset aim points,
and way points                                                                            2b                                     -        -        -       -        -
4.5.5.2 Construct and annotate strip charts and
route books with required navigational data                                               2b                                     -        -        -       -        -
4.5.5.3 Construct and maintain mission folders                                            2b                                     -        -        -       -        -
4.5.6 Automated Mission Planning for Targeting
TR: AFI 14-103, AFI 14-117, AFI 13-1 Vol 3, AFPAM 14-210 & AFTTP 3-1 Vols 1-25 (as applicable)
4.5.6.1 Recommend mission profiles based on
route threat and terrain analysis, and
recommend initial points, offset aim points,
and way points                                                                            2b                                     -        -        -       -        -
4.5.6.2 Construct and maintain mission folders                                            2b                                     -        -        -       -        -
4.6 Assessment
4.6.1 Roles and responsibilities in the combat
assessment processes (mission assessment,
munitions effectiveness assessment, physical
damage and functional damage, predictive
weapons assessment)
TR: JP 3-60, AFDD 3-60, DIA BDA Quick
Guide, & DIA BDA Handbook                                                                  B                                     -        -        -       -        -
4.6.2 Roles and responsibilities concerning
federated assessment production
responsibilities (between national
organizations, Joint Intelligence Centers and
theater level organizations)
TR: JP 3-60, AFDD 3-60, DIA BDA Quick
Guide, DIA BDA Handbook, & USJFCOM
Commander's Handbook for Joint Battle
Damage Assessment                                                                          -                                     -        -        -       -        -
4.6.3 Conduct physical and functional damage
assessments using the tactical
assessment/BDA references
TR: DIA BDA Quick Guide, & DIA BDA
Handbook                                                                                                                2b       -        -        -       -        -



                                                                      47
                                                2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E            A                B                 C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC

4.6.4 Contributions of current and emerging
sensor capabilities and limitations for effects
assessment
TR: AFTTP 3-1.AOC & AFTTP 3-1.DCGS                                                                                       -       -        -        -       -        -
4.7 Information Operations (IO) and Non-Kinetic Targeting
4.7.1 Capabilities and limitations of IO
TR: JP 3-13, AFDD 2-5 & AFTTP 3-1.IO                                                                                    A        -        -        -       -        -
4.7.2 Effects of non-kinetic operations on a
target population
TR: JP 3-13, AFDD 2-5, AFTTP 3-1.IO &
CJCSI 3160.01                                                                                                           A        -        -        -       -        -
4.7.3 Legal and ethical issues as they impact
on IO and non-kinetic targeting
TR: JP 3-13, AFDD 2-5, AFTTP 3-1.IO &
CJCSI 3160.01                                                                                                           A        -        -        -       -        -
4.8 Special Operations and Targeting
4.8.1 SOF capabilities and limitations to
include: direct action; designating targets;
reversible effects & strategic reconnaissance
TR: JP 3-05 & JP 3-05.2                                                                                                 A        -        -        -       -        -
4.8.2 Strategies and techniques to defeat an
insurgency through targeting
TR: AFDD 2-3 & FM 3-24                                                                                                  A        -        -        -       -        -
4.9 Nuclear Operations and Targeting
4.9.1 Current US Nuclear Weapons Inventory
TR: Air Armament Center Weapons File                                                                                    A        -        -        -       -        -
4.9.2 Capabilities and effects of nuclear
weapons
TR: JWS-4 SIPRNET Website
(http://www.dia.smil.mil/homepage/physical.h
tml); Gladstone/Dolan The Effects of Nuclear
Weapons 3rd Ed. 1977; Nuclear Weapons
Effects National Enterprise Joint Defense
Science Board/DTRA Report (Appendix A)
Jun 2010; Fire Targeting Methodology:
Improvements in Automation DNA-TR-94-
101-RW Dec 1995 Dr. Harold Broad                                                                                        A        -        -        -       -        -
4.9.3 Fundamentals of nuclear targeting and
weaponeering
TR: JWS-4 SIPRNET Website
(http://www.dia.smil.mil/homepage/physical.h
tml); Damage Probabilities for Small-CEP,
Low-Yield, Airburst/Groundburst Attacks
Against Selected PVN and QVN Point Targets
D.C. Kephart and M.J. Parise (Project RAND
Report 1975); OGA 2800-32-92 Physical
Vulnerability Handbook for Nuclear Weapons
AP 550; DDB-2800-44-91 Nuclear Weapon
Employment and Effects: Myths and Facts                                                                                  -       -        -        -       -        -
4.9.4 Fundamentals of nuclear weapons
combat assessment                                                                                                       -        -        -        -       -        -
4.9.5 Nuclear target materials                                                                                          A        -        -        -       -        -
4.10 Integrated AOC Exercise
4.10.1 Perform AOC targeting functions in an
exercise that is integrated with other
intelligence disciplines                                                                                                2b       -        -        -       -        -

Note: BLK #4: Columns (1) & (2) can be relabeled to meet CF Requirements; i.e., 2 phase 3 skill level course, 5 lvl QTPs.




                                                                      48
 Section B - Course Objective List

 NOTE: This area is reserved.

 Section C - Support Material

 NOTE: There are currently no support material requirements. This area is reserved.

 Section D - Training Course Index

 8. Purpose. The purpose of this section is to aid commanders, supervisors, and trainers, by
 providing a list of training courses available to personnel within the GEOINT specialty. Many of
 the courses listed in this section are often required to satisfy command/organizational/positional
 unique training requirements that are not part of formal initial skills or upgrade training.
 Supervisors should refer questions concerning specialized training, not available at the unit, to
 their respective unit/base training manager or to their command/joint activity functional
 manager. NOTE: Although not all inclusive, the courses listed represent much of the formal
 training recognized by the functional community as applicable to the GEOINT specialty.

 9. In-Residence GEOINT Courses.

COURSE NUMBER           TITLE                                                  LOCATION

X3ABR1N131A00AB         Geospatial-Intelligence Analysis Course (GAC)          Goodfellow AFB, TX
X3ABR1N131B00AB         Geospatial-Intelligence Targeting Course (GTC)         Goodfellow AFB, TX
X3AZR1NXXX 0A1B         Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance          Goodfellow AFB, TX
                        Operators Course (IROC)
X3OAR14N3 0C2A          Master Targeting Course (MTC)                          Goodfellow AFB, TX
X3AZR1NXXX 0B1A         Senior Enlisted Intelligence, Surveillance and         Goodfellow AFB, TX
                        Reconnaissance Master Skills Course (SEIMSC)
X5AZR1N151 0A0A         Community Geospatial-Intelligence Analysis             Ft. Belvoir, VA
                        Course (CGAC)
X5OZD14N3 0C7A          Intelligence Collection Course (ICC)                   Bolling AFB, DC
X5OZD14N3 0X3A          Intelligence Collection Management Course              Bolling AFB, DC
                        (ICMC)
X5OZD14N3 0C5A          Introduction to Remotely Sensed Imagery/               Ft. Belvoir, VA
                        Geographic Information Systems (4M/41-712)
X5OZN14N3    0B4A       Joint Targeting Staff Course                           Dam Neck, VA
X5OZN14N3    0B5A       Joint Targeting Applications Course                    Dam Neck, VA
X5OZN14N3    0B6A       Joint Battle Damage Assessment Course                  Dam Neck, VA
X5OZN14N3    0Z1A       Joint Collateral Damage Estimation Course              Dam Neck, VA




                                                 49
X5OZD14N3 0C1A    Joint Special Operations Intelligence Course           Bolling AFB, DC
                  (JSOIC)
X5OZD14N3 0A3A    Intelligence Analyst Course (IAC)                      Bolling AFB, DC
X5OZD14N3 0A5A    National Intelligence Course (NIC)                     Bolling AFB, DC
X5OZD14N3 0C6A    Intelligence Support to Information Operations         Bolling AFB, DC
AFPMIQC01         AF Point Mensuration Initial Qualification Training Offutt AFB, NE
                  Course (AFP4)
SOPSC V3 053      Space Fundamentals Course (SFC)                        Peterson AFB, CO
B-V7C-E PN        Introduction to Electronic Warfare                     Pensacola NAS, FL
F15C-IFTU         USAF F15C Intelligence FTU (IFTU) Course               Tyndall AFB, FL
F/A22-IFTU        USAF F-22A Intelligence FTU (IFTU) Course              Tyndall AFB, FL
AFSOF-IFTU        AFSOF Intelligence Formal Training Unit (IFTU)         Hurlburt Field, FL
SOED-DIT          Dynamics of International Terrorism (DIT)              Hurlburt Field, FL


COURSE NUMBER     TITLE/DESCRIPTION
LOCATION

X3AZD1N091 0A1A   Bachelor of Science in Intelligence (BSI) is a fourth-year program that
BOLLING AFB, DC   affords students who have completed three years or equivalent credits (80
                  minimum) of undergraduate study a way to earn their undergraduate degree
                  in intelligence. It is designed to encourage the development of inquiring,
                  responsible graduates who will dedicate themselves to the improvement of
                  the national intelligence community. The BSI curriculum consists of 11 core
                  courses and six electives to include the capstone project, for a total of 57
                  quarter credit hours. The core curriculum provides an overview of
                  globalization and the intelligence landscape. Such understanding is essential
                  for a program founded on the premise that world events can only be
                  understood by employing a variety of disciplinary perspectives, and that they
                  must be understood in a global and geostrategic context.

X5OZD14N3 0A1B    Master of Science of Strategic Intelligence (MSSI) degree program
BOLLING AFB, DC   consists of 43 quarter credit hours to include five core courses (15), one
                  program requirement (3), six electives (18), and a Master's thesis examining
                  a strategic intelligence or intelligence-related topic. The MSSI is designed to
                  have students develop global awareness, and understand how historical,
                  economic, cultural, political and social contexts affect intelligence and
                  national security. Such understanding is essential for a program founded on
                  the premise that world events can only be understood by employing a variety
                  of disciplinary perspectives, and that they must be understood in a global,
                  regional, and local context. Students may enroll on a full-time or part time
                  basis. Part-time students may attend on a space-available basis during the
                  day or apply for a seat in one of the two-year MSSI cohorts.


                                          50
X5OZD14N3 0A1C           Master of Science and Technology Intelligence (MSTI) degree program
BOLLING AFB, DC          consists of 43 quarter credit hours to include five core courses (15), two
                         program requirements (6), five electives (15), four thesis courses (7) and a
                         Master’s thesis examining a science and technology intelligence topic within
                         the selected S&T concentration that contributes to the overall knowledge
                         base of the Intelligence Community. The MSTI is designed to prepare
                         students to recognize the impact of technological change on national security
                         and intelligence. MSTI students study one of four core concentrations
                         established to focus their education to their area of thesis research. The four
                         concentrations are Weapons of Mass Destruction; Information Operations
                         and Cyber; Emerging and Disruptive Technologies; and Geostrategic
                         Resources and the Environment.


 10. Air Force Exportable Courses.

COURSE NUMBER            TITLE                                                  LOCATION
X7OZT14N3 0A3A           Conventional Weaponeering Fundamentals Course          Goodfellow AFB, TX
                                                                                (MTT)
X7OAT14N3 0A1A           Master Targeting Course                                Goodfellow AFB, TX
                                                                                (MTT)
X5OZD14N3 0C6A           Mobile Intelligence Support to Information             Bolling AFB, DC
                         Operations (MISIO)                                     (MTT)
X5OZD14N3 0A7A           Mobile Counterterrorism Analyst Course                 Bolling AFB, DC
                                                                                (MTT)
X5OZD14N3 0C7A           Mobile Intelligence Collection Course (MICC)           Bolling AFB, DC
                                                                                (MTT)
X5OSK14N3 0A0A           Geospatial Information and Services for the            Ft. Belvoir, VA
                         Warrior (GI&S4W)                                       (MTT)
                         Joint Intermediate Target Development Course           Bolling AFB, DC
                                                                                (MTT)

 Section E - MAJCOM Unique Training

 11. Purpose. This section provides general instructions for MAJCOMs and joint activities that
 have training requirements unique to their respective organizations.

 12. Responsibilities.

 12.1. MAJCOM Unique Training.

 12.1.1. MFMs are responsible for ensuring the implementation of this CFETP within their
 respective commands and the development, implementation, and management of supplemental
 training plans/programs, as necessary, to satisfy command-unique training requirements.


                                                 51
12.1.2. MFMs should work closely with command training managers to ensure supplemental
training plans/programs to support command-unique requirements are consistent with the
requirements set forth within this CFETP or governing directives.

12.1.3. MFMs are also responsible for fulfilling the responsibilities listed in AFI 36-2201 and
Part I, Section A of this CFETP.

12.2. Joint Activity Unique Training.

12.2.1 Joint Activity MFMs are responsible for ensuring the implementation of this CFETP
within their respective joint activity and the development, implementation, and management of
supplemental training plans/programs, as necessary, to satisfy joint activity-unique training
requirements.

12.2.2 Joint Activity MFMs should work closely with the training manager assigned to the
supporting Air Force Element (AFELM), to ensure supplemental training plans/programs to
support joint activity unique requirements are consistent with the requirements set forth within
this CFETP or governing directives.

12.2.3 Joint activity MFMs are also responsible for fulfilling the responsibilities listed in AFI 36-
2201 and Part I, Section A of this CFETP.




                                                 52
