DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                   CFETP 2A6X4
Headquarters US Air Force                                                       Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                     1 APRIL 2014



                              AFSC 2A6X4

           AIRCRAFT FUEL SYSTEMS




          CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
            AND TRAINING PLAN
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at www.e-
publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                                                                                                           CFETP 2A6X4, 1 APRIL 2014

                           CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                               AIRCRAFT FUEL SYSTEMS SPECIALTY
                                          AFSC 2A6X4

                                                            Table of Contents
PART I                                                                                                                                    Page #

Preface..........................................................................................................................................1
Abbreviations/Terms Explained ..................................................................................................2

Section A--General Information ..................................................................................................5
Purpose of the CFETP
Use of the CFETP
Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B--Career Progression and Information .........................................................................6
Specialty Description
Skill/Career Progression
       Apprentice (3) Level
       Journeyman (5) Level
       Craftsman (7) Level
       Superintendent (9) Level
Training Decisions
Community College of the Air Force
Career Field Path

Section C--Skill Level Training Requirements ...........................................................................13
Purpose
Specialty Qualification
       Apprentice Level Training
       Journeyman Level Training
       Craftsman Level Training
       Superintendent Level Training
Section D--Resource Constraints ................................................................................................16
Section E--Transitional Training Guide ......................................................................................16


PART II
Section A--Course Objectives .....................................................................................................17
Section B--Support Material........................................................................................................17
Section C--Training Course Index ..............................................................................................18
Section D--MAJCOM Unique Requirements .............................................................................21
Section E--Specialty Training Standard ......................................................................................21
________________________
Supersedes: CFETP 2A6X4, 1 December 2010
OPR: 361 TRS/TRR
Approved By: HQ AF/A4LF (CMSgt Bryan Cannon)
Number of printed pages: 161



                                                                          i
                                                                           CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014

                      AIRCRAFT FUEL SYSTEMS SPECIALTY
                  CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                 AFSC 2A6X4


PART I

Preface

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for 2A6X4, Aircraft Fuel Systems Specialty.
The CFETP will provide personnel a clear career path to success and instills rigor in all aspects
of career field training. This CFETP supersedes 2A6X4 CFETP, 1 December 2010. To read,
review, or print a copy of the current CFETP, go to the AF/A4LF Sharepoint;
https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/OO-LG-AF-35/default.aspx.

NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty position
qualification training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts; supervisors use both parts to plan, manage, and control
training.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C
associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, training, and other).
Section D indicates resource constraints. Some examples are funds, manpower, equipment, and
facilities. Section E identifies transition training guide requirements to support career field
restructures.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A contains the course objective list and training
standards supervisors will use to determine if airmen have satisfied training requirements.
Section B identifies available support materials, such as Qualification Training Package (QTP)
which may be developed to support proficiency training. Section C contains a training course
index supervisors can use to determine if resources are available to support training. Included
here are both mandatory and optional courses. Section D identifies MAJCOM unique training
requirements supervisors can use to determine additional training required for the associated
qualification needs. Section E identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and includes
duties, tasks, and technical references to support training; Air Education and Training Command
(AETC) conducted training, wartime course requirements, core tasks, and correspondence course
requirements. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and
conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive
effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan will enable us to
train today’s work force for tomorrow’s jobs.


                                                  1
                                                                            CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014


ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training (AT). A formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in one
or more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance
their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career airmen at the advanced level of
the AFS.

Air Force Career Development Academy (AFCDA). Mission is to develop distance learning
curriculum to prepare today’s Airmen for tomorrow’s challenges. They also develop, manage
and deliver Career Development Courses (CDCs). The publish and distribute the CDCs, develop
and maintain the course exams and also support for educational development.

Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD). These directories contain the official
specialty descriptions for all military classification codes and identifiers which are used to
identify each Air Force job (valid requirement) and describe the minimum mandatory
qualifications of personnel to fill these jobs. These standards are used to procure, classify, and
employ personnel; to develop career programs for initial training, retraining, and skill upgrade;
and to structure unit manpower document (UMD) positions.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a
particular job type or duty position. They are used by supervisors to document task qualifications.
The tasks on an AFJQS are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive,
multipurpose document covering the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field.
It outlines a logical growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career
field training identifiable, to eliminate duplication, and to ensure this training is budget
defensible.

Certification. A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required
standards.

Certification Official. A person the commander assigns to determine an individual’s ability to
perform a task to required standards.

Continuation Training. Additional training that exceeds requirements with emphasis on
present or future duty assignments.

Contract Training. Type 1 training that receives the same priority funding as Air Force
directed training. It supports initial groups of instructors, operators, etc., that the Air Force
requires for new or modified weapon systems.

Core Task. Tasks that the Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) identifies as minimum
qualification requirements within an Air Force Specialty. This gives units needed flexibility to
manage their workforce training.



                                                   2
                                                                         CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
Course Objective List (COL). A publication identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements
and respective standards provided to achieve a 3-7-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use
the COL to assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Air Force
Training Program.

Course Training Standard (CTS). Training standard that identifies the training members will
receive in a specific course not covered in the CFETP.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video,
or other necessary means to supplement training.

Field Technical Training (Type 4/7). Special or regular on-site training conducted by a
training detachment (TD) (Type 4) or by a mobile training team (MTT) (Type 7).

Integrated Maintenance Data System (IMDS). Formerly called Core Automated Maintenance
System (CAMS); the primary Air Force production-oriented, base-level automated Maintenance
Information System (MIS).

G081/Mobility Air Force Logistics Command & Control (G081/MAFLOGC2). Provides
both a maintenance management system and a logistics command and control system for the C-
5, C-130, KC-10, KC-135, and C-17 fleets.

Integrated Maintenance Information System (IMIS). The objective of IMIS is to give
maintenance technicians a very small size portable computer/display that will interface with on-
aircraft systems and other computer systems to provide a single, integrated source of the
information needed to perform maintenance on the line and in the shop.

Initial Skills Training (IST). A formal school course resulting in the award of a 3-skill level
AFSC.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly process for developing,
validating, and reviewing instructional programs that ensures personnel are taught the knowledge
and skills essential for successful job performance.

MAJCOM Mandatory Course Listing (MMCL). Identifies mandatory maintenance training
requirements for initial technical school graduates, retrainees, and personnel with no experience
on assigned mission design series (MDS) aircraft. It also ensures maintenance personnel receive
training commensurate to their current duty position.

Mission Design Series (MDS). Aircraft (i.e., B-2, F-22, C-130).

Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). A detailed report showing the results of an
occupational survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.




                                                 3
                                                                          CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training at the duty location used to
certify personnel for both skill level upgrade and duty position qualification.

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an
Airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the
upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills/knowledge required to
do the job.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as funding, facilities, time, manpower, and
equipment, that precludes desired training from being delivered.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force
Specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge an airman may be expected to perform or to know on
the job. It serves as a contract between Air Education and Training Command and the functional
user to show which of the overall training requirements for an Air Force Specialty are taught in
formal schools, career development courses, and exportable courses.

Training by Other Government Agencies (Type 5). This training includes training conducted
by the Army, Navy, Air Force agency or unit other than AETC, and other government agencies
inside or outside of the Department of Defense (DoD).

Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-
the-job, field training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.).

Upgrade Training (UGT). A mixture of mandatory courses, task qualification, and CDCs
required for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, or 9-skill level.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum, co-chaired by the AFCFM and
Training Pipeline Manager, of MAJCOM Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) functional
managers, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training personnel that determines career
ladder training requirements.


Web Site Links

AFCDA Website              http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/main.htm

AFCDA Sharepoint           https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/AE-ED-02-37/default.aspx

AU Online (e-CDC)          https://au.csd.disa.mil/kc/login/login.asp

CCAF                       http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/

ETCA                       https://etca.randolph.af.mil/

HQ USAF/A4LF               https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/OO-LG-AF-35/default.aspx




                                                4
                                                                           CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014

361 TRS                     https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
                            af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?command=org&channelPageId=s6925EC
                            1349430FB5E044080020E329A9

367 TRS/TRSS                https://367trss.hill.af.mil/

982 MXS/TST                 https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
                            af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?command=org&channelPageId=-1468774

Section A - General Information

1. Purpose of the CFETP. This CFETP provides information necessary for Air Force Career
Field Manager (AFCFM), MAJCOM functional managers (MFMs), commanders, training
managers, supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective career
field training program. This plan outlines the training that individuals in AFSC 2A6X4 should
receive to develop and progress throughout their career. This plan identifies initial skills,
upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency training. Initial skills training is the AFS-
specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon retraining into this
specialty for award of the 3-skill level. This training is conducted by AETC at the 361st
Training Squadron, Sheppard Air Force Base, Texas. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory
courses, task qualification requirements, and correspondence course completion requirements for
award of the 5-, 7-, 9-skill levels. Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance
training designed to qualify an Airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs
both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance
skills/knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training is formal training that provides
individuals who are qualified in one or more positions of their AFS with additional
skills/knowledge to enhance their expertise in the career field. The CFETP has several purposes,
some of which are:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field training
program. Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an
individual’s career.

1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.

1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and identifies
the training delivery method.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired career
field training process.

2. Use of the CFETP. The plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure
comprehensive, cohesive training programs are available for each individual in this specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop/revise formal resident, non-resident, Training
Detachment (TD), and exportable training based on requirements established by the users and


                                                  5
                                                                         CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
documented in Part II of the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop
acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement mandatory requirements in the
CFETP: initial, upgrade, and proficiency requirements. Identified requirements can be satisfied
by OJT, resident training, contract training, or exportable courses. MAJCOM-developed
mandatory training to support this AFS must be identified for inclusion into the plan and must
not duplicate other available training resources.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan.
The list of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP. IAW AFI 36-2201, the AFCFM is the
approval authority. The AETC training manager for AFSC 2A6X4 will initiate an annual review
of this document by AETC and MFM to ensure currency and accuracy. The using MAJCOM
representatives and AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field
training requirements. Using the list of courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.

Section B - Career Progression and Information

4. Specialty Description.

4.1. Specialty Summary. Removes, repairs, inspects, installs, and modifies aircraft fuel
systems including integral fuel tanks, bladder cells, and external tanks (to include War Readiness
Materials). Maintains associated hardware and equipment. Related DoD Occupational
Subgroup: 602.

4.2. Duties and Responsibilities.

4.2.1. Aircraft Fuel Systems Apprentice and Journeyman. Performs maintenance on
aircraft fuel tanks and cells. Removes access panels, and depuddles, purges, repairs, and tests
fuel tanks and cells. Performs entry and maintenance in confined spaces. Removes, repairs,
and replaces malfunctioning components. Prepares aircraft surfaces, and applies sealants,
adhesives, and associated chemicals.

4.2.2. Aircraft Fuel Systems Craftsman. Advises on aircraft fuel systems removal, repair,
and installation maintenance procedures and policies. Diagnoses fuel system and component
malfunctions. Recommends corrective actions and resolves problems using technical
publications and analytic techniques.

4.2.3. Superintendent. Supervises, inspects, and evaluates aircraft fuel systems maintenance
activities. Cleans fuel cells and tanks, and inspects for foreign objects, corrosion, cell
deterioration, and fungus. Stores, handles, uses, and disposes of hazardous material
and waste.. Initiates deficiency reports, maintenance analysis documents, technical data
changes, and equipment records. Records information on data collection forms and automated
systems.




                                                 6
                                                                         CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
5. Skill/Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to
the superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force’s ability to accomplish its
mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training do their part to plan, develop, manage,
and conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will
ensure each individual receives necessary training at appropriate points in their career. The
following narrative and AFSC 2A6X4 career field table identify the skill/career progression.

5.1. Apprentice (3) Level. Following Basic Military Training, initial skills training is provided
in a 3-level (apprentice) resident course taught at the 82d Training Group, 361st Training
Squadron, Sheppard Air Force Base, Texas. Training provided in this course is determined by
the results from the Aircraft Fuel Systems Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). During
the U&TW, subject matter experts use their extensive knowledge and experience and data
provided by the Occupational Analysis Report (OAR) to determine course content. Task and
knowledge training requirements are identified in Attachment 2 of the CFETP (STS). Upon
completion of this initial-skills course, graduates are awarded the 3-skill level (AFSC 2A634).
The course provides a foundation for additional training at the graduates’ first duty assignment
where trainees work with a trainer to increase knowledge and skills. Trainees utilize career
development courses (CDCs), task qualification training, and other exportable courses to
progress in their career field. Once trainees have been task certified, they may perform the task
unsupervised.

5.2. Journeyman (5) Level. Upgrade training to the 5-skill level includes task and knowledge
training. After award of the 3-skill level, trainees are enrolled in the Aircraft Fuel Systems
Journeyman (5-level) CDC. Additionally, trainees must complete 5-skill level, upgrade training
requirements (core tasks) identified in the STS. Once upgraded to the 5-skill level, trainees enter
into continuation training to broaden their experience base by increasing their knowledge and
skills in troubleshooting and solving more complex problems. After having 48 months in the
Air Force, 5-levels will attend Airman Leadership School (ALS) to enhance their Professional
Military Education (PME). Five-levels will be considered for appointment as unit trainers.
Individuals will use their CDCs to prepare for Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS)
testing. They should also consider continuing their education toward a Community College of
the Air Force (CCAF) degree.


5.3. Craftsman (7) Level. For award of the 7-skill level, an individual must successfully
complete all required 7-level training identified in this CFETP and meet 7-level minimum
upgrade requirements (AFI 36-2201 Air Force Training Program and Air Force Enlisted
Classification Directory (AFECD)). Completion of CDC 2AX7X is part of the required 7-level
upgrade training. A craftsman can expect to fill various supervisory and management positions
such as shift leader, section chief, production supervisor, and various staff positions. Continued
academic education through CCAF and higher degree programs, especially in resources and
personnel management, is encouraged. In addition, when promoted to TSgt, individuals will
attend the Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA). MSgt's and MSgt selectees should
enroll in the Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA) correspondence course to further their
professional development. MSgt's will also attend SNCOA, in-residence, prior to promotion to
the rank of SMSgt. (Optional for Air Reserve Component (ARC)). . Additional higher
education and completion of courses outside their career AFS is also recommended.



                                                 7
                                                                          CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
5.4. Superintendent (9) Level. For award of the 9-skill level, individuals must hold the rank of
SMSgt. A 9-level can expect to fill positions such as flight chief, production superintendent, and
various staff NCOIC jobs. Additional training in the areas of budget, manpower, resources, and
personnel management should be pursued through continuing education. Additional higher
education and completion of courses outside their career AFS is also recommended.

6. Training Decisions.

6.1. Initial Skills. The initial skills course was revised as a result of MAJCOM requirements.
All proficiency codes were reviewed and only minor changes were made. A review of the POI
resulted in no reduction of time. Proficiency codes for G081, use of emergency eyewash and use
of AFTO Form 244 were added. Proficiency codes for filleting gun, DIFM, troubleshooting,
HDU-13, determining authorized fuel system repair locations were removed.

6.2. Five-Level Upgrade Requirements. The 5-level CDC was reviewed. Decisions regarding
upgrade training included realigning the five skill level core tasks.

6.3. Seven-Level Upgrade Requirements. Decisions regarding upgrade training included
realigning the seven skill-level core tasks.

6.4. Mission Design Series (MDS) Specific STSs. The 19 MDS specific attachments were
reviewed. Attachment deletions included the C-9. An additional attachment was included for
the F-35. There was numerous line items added and deleted based on MAJCOM requirements.
Decisions regarding upgrade training included realigning the five and seven skill level core tasks.
The number of 5-level core tasks was decreased from 580 to 529. The number of 7-level core
tasks was increased from 304 to 340.

6.5. Continuation Training. None

CCAF AIRCRAFT FUEL SYSTEMS CFETP

7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). CCAF is one of several federally chartered
degree-granting institutions; however, it is the only 2-year institution exclusively serving military
enlisted personnel. The college is regionally accredited through Air University by the
Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) to award
AAS degrees designed for specific Air Force occupational specialties and is the largest multi-
campus community college in the world. Upon completion of basic military training and
assignment to an AF career field, all enlisted personnel are registered in a CCAF degree program
and are afforded the opportunity to obtain an Associate in Applied Science degree. In order to be
awarded, degree requirements must be successfully completed before the student separates from
the Air Force, retires, or is commissioned as an officer. See the CCAF website for details
regarding the AAS degree programs at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/.

7.1. CCAF Degree Requirements. All enlisted airmen are automatically entered into the
CCAF program. Prior to completing an associate degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the
following requirements must be met:




                                                 8
                                                                                                  CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                   Semester Hours

       Technical Education...................................................................................24
       Leadership, Management, and Military Studies ..........................................6
       Physical Education .......................................................................................4
       General Education ..................................................................................…15
       Program Elective ....................................................................................…15
                                                                                                     Total: 64


7.1.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): Completion of the career field apprentice
course satisfies some semester hours of the technical education requirements. A minimum of 24
semester hours of Technical Core subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining semester
hours applied from Technical Core/Technical Elective courses. Some academic degree programs
have specific technical education requirements. Refer to the CCAF General Catalog for specific
degree requirements for your specialty.

7.1.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Enlisted
Professional Military Education (EPME) and/or civilian management courses.

7.1.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of
Basic Military Training.

7.1.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement with
the definitions of applicable General Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF
General Catalog.

7.1.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects/courses, including
natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Nine semester hours of CCAF degree
applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied. See the
CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science for this specialty.

7.1.6. Residency Requirement (16 Semester Hours): Satisfied by credit earned for coursework
completed in an affiliated school or through internship credit awarded for progression in an Air
Force occupation specialty. Enlisted members attending Army, Navy, and/or DOD initial or
advanced training do not receive resident credit since these schools are not part of the CCAF
system. However, the college awards proficiency credit to AF enlisted members completing
these courses. Note: Physical education credit awarded for basic military training is not resident
credit.

7.2. Professional Certifications. Certifications assist the professional development of our
Airmen by broadening their knowledge and skills. Additionally, specific certifications may be
award collegiate credit by CCAF and civilian colleges, saving time and Air Force tuition
assistance funds. It also helps airmen to be better prepared for transition to civilian life. To learn
more about professional certifications and certification programs offered by CCAF, visit
http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp. In addition to its associate degree program,
CCAF offers the following certification programs and resources:


                                                                9
                                                                        CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
7.2.1. CCAF Instructor Certification (CIC) Program. CCAF offers the three-tiered CIC
Program for qualified instructors teaching at CCAF affiliated schools who have demonstrated a
high level of professional accomplishment. The CIC is a professional credential that recognizes
the instructor's extensive faculty development training, education and qualification required to
teach a CCAF course, and formally acknowledges the instructor's practical teaching experience.

7.2.2. CCAF Instructional Systems Development (ISD) Certification Program. CCAF
offers the ISD Certification Program for qualified curriculum developers and managers who are
formally assigned at CCAF affiliated schools to develop and manage CCAF collegiate courses.
The ISD Certification is a professional credential that recognizes the curriculum developer’s or
manager’s extensive training, education, qualifications and experience required to develop and
manage CCAF courses. The certification also recognizes the individual’s ISD qualifications and
experience in planning, developing, implementing and managing instructional systems.

 7.2.3. CCAF Professional Manager Certification (PMC). CCAF offers the PMC Program
for qualified Air Force NCO’s. The PMC is a professional credential awarded by CCAF that
formally recognizes an individual’s advanced level of education and experience in leadership and
management, as well as professional accomplishments. The program provides a structured
professional development track that supplements Enlisted Professional Military Education
(EPME) and Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP).

7.2.4. CCAF Credentialing and Education Research Tool (CERT). CCAF implemented
CERT to increase awareness of professional development opportunities applicable to Air Force
occupational specialties. It is a valuable resource for Air Force enlisted personnel and provides
information related to specific AFSCs, such as: AFSC description; civilian occupation
equivalencies (US Department of Labor); CCAF degree programs; national professional
certifications; certifying agencies; and professional organizations.

7.2.5. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Airframe and Powerplant (A&P)
Certification.
Air Force aircraft maintenance technicians are eligible to pursue FAA A&P certification based
on training and experience in accordance with Federal Aviation Regulation Part 65. The DoD
established the Joint Service Aviation Maintenance Technician Certification Council
(JSAMTCC) to standardize the eligibility and certification process for the military and provide
direction and resources necessary to fill the gaps within military training and experience.
Completing the Air Force A&P Certification Program, managed by CCAF, will fill training and
experience gaps, ensuring FAA eligibility. The program consists of three Air University Online
A&P Specialized Courses, OJT and experience requirements contained in a Qualification
Training Package (QTP). Technicians may enroll in the program once they have been awarded
the 5-skill level. To learn more, visit CCAF at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp.
CCAF awards 30 semester hours for FAA A&P certification and 18 semester hours for FAA
Airframe or Powerplant certification.

7.2.6. SpaceTEC Aerospace Technician Certification. Air Force aircraft maintenance
technicians are eligible to pursue SpaceTEC Aerospace Technician certification based on
aviation training and experience. SpaceTEC certification is endorsed by NASA and the
Aerospace industry. Air University Online offers a Specialized Course to assist technicians
prepare for the Aerospace Technician certification exams. To learn more, visit SpaceTEC at


                                                10
                                                                     CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
http://www.spacetec.org/ or CCAF at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp. CCAF
awards 25 semester hours for the SpaceTEC Aerospace Technician certification.




                                             11
                                                                                       CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
8. Career Field Path.

8.1. Enlisted Career Path: Table 8.1 identifies career milestones for the 2A6X4 Air Force Specialty.

                                            Table 8.1. Enlisted Career Path
                                                                               Grade Requirements
  Education and Training Requirements                      Rank         Average      Earliest High Year Of Tenure
                                                                        Sew-On       Sew-On                (HYT)
  BMTS                                                       AB
  Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)               Amn         6 months
                                                            A1C        16 months
  Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level)                     Amn         6 months
  - Minimum 12 months on-the-job training (OJT).            A1C        16 months
  - Minimum 9 months OJT for retrainees.                     SrA         3 years        28                 8 years
  - Complete all 5-level core tasks where applicable.                                 months
  - Complete appropriate CDC if/when available.
  Airman Leadership School                               Trainer
  - Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service or      - Qualified and certified to perform the task to be trained.
    be a SSgt Selectee.                                  - Must attend the Air Force Training Course.
  - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt
    sew-on (Active Duty Only).
                                                         Certifier
                                                         - Be at least a SSgt with a 5-skill level, or civilian
                                                            equivalent, trained and qualified to perform the task being
                                                            trained.
                                                         - Attend Air Force Training course.
                                                         - Be a person other than the trainer except for AFSCs, duty
                                                            positions, units, and/or work centers with specialized
                                                            training standardization and certification requirements.
  Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)                      SSgt        7.5 years     3 years             15 years
  - Minimum rank of SSgt.
  - 12 months OJT.
  - 6 months OJT for retrainees.
  - Complete all 5- and 7-level core tasks.
  - Complete appropriate CDC if/when available.
  Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)                    TSgt       12.5 years     5 years             20 years
  - Must be a TSgt or TSgt Selectee.
  - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt                     16 years
    sew-on (Active Duty Only).                             MSgt                       8 years             24 years
  USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)
  - Must be a MSgt or SMSgt Selectee.                      SMSgt       19.2 years 11 years                26 years
  - A percentage of top non-select (for promotion to
    E-8)
   Upgrade To Superintendent (9-Skill Level)
  - Minimum rank of SMSgt
  Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM)
                                                          CMSgt        21.5 years 14 years                30 years




                                                           12
                                                                           CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements

   9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in the 2A6X4 career field are defined in terms of
   task and knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements
   for each skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry,
   award, and retention of each skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements
   are identified in the STS at Part II, Sections B and E of this CFETP.

   10. Specialty Qualification Requirements. The various skill levels in this career field are
   defined in terms of tasks and knowledge proficiency requirements for each skill level. They are
   stated in broad general terms and establish the standards of performance. Unit work centers must
   develop a structured training program to ensure the following requirements are met.

   10.1. Apprentice Level Training:

   10.1.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is located in the official specialty description
   in Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), paragraph 3.

   10.1.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of internal hardware such as valves,
   interconnects, lines, gauges, controls, pumps, and other attachments; sealing materials; sheet
   metal parts; rubber properties and organic sealing compound applications; layout drawing use;
   technical publications; concepts and applications of maintenance directives; work policies and
   procedures; and proper handling, use, and disposal of hazardous waste and material.

   10.1.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school with courses in
   general science or physics is desirable.

   10.1.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2A634, completion of the Aircraft Fuel Systems
   Apprentice Course is mandatory.

   10.1.1.4. Experience. None.

   10.1.1.5. Other. For entry into this specialty, normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123,
   Medical Examination and Standards, is mandatory. This career field is not recommended for
   individuals with claustrophobia or acute fear of confined spaces.

   10.1.2. Training Sources and Resources. The initial skills course provides applicable career
   field knowledge to the 3-skill level,. Training includes an introduction to maintenance
   management, technical orders, and the Maintenance Information Systems (MIS). Also taught are
   basic fuel system designs, operating principles, and maintaining aircraft fuel systems with high
   emphasis on safety of personnel and equipment. In consideration of the group/size constraints
   imposed by the aircraft fuel systems equipment, certain modules of instruction were designed to
   permit simultaneous training and performance on the various tasks involved using a team and/or
   subgroup approach.

   10.1.3. Implementation. Upon graduation from Basic Military Training (BMT), completion of
   the Aircraft Fuel Systems Apprentice course is required to satisfy the knowledge and training
   resource requirements for award of the 3-skill level.


                                                   13
                                                                        CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014

10.2. Journeyman Level Training:

10.2.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is located in the official specialty description
in Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), paragraph 3.

10.2.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: internal hardware such as valves,
interconnects, lines, gauges, controls, pumps, and other attachments; sealing materials; sheet
metal parts; rubber properties and organic sealing compound applications; layout drawing use;
technical publications; concepts and applications of maintenance directives; work policies and
procedures; and proper handling, use, and disposal of hazardous waste and material.
10.2.1.2. Education. There are no formal education requirements beyond those defined for the
apprentice level. However, completion of a CCAF degree is desirable.

10.2.1.3. Training. The 5-level CDC provides the career knowledge training required for the
award of AFSC 2A654. Training on core tasks identified in the STS is provided by qualification
training and OJT. The CDC is designed to build upon the trainee's current knowledge base and
provide more in-depth knowledge to support OJT requirements.

10.2.1.4. Experience. Individuals must be qualified in and possess AFSC 2A634, complete all
5-level core tasks identified in the STS, and have experience in functions such as installing,
repairing, or modifying aircraft fuel systems and related components.

10.2.2. Training Sources and Resources. A minimum of 12 months on-the-job training,
completion of the 2A654 CDC, and completion of 5-level core tasks represent the resources
needed for award of the 5-skill level.

10.2.3. Implementation. Training for upgrade to the 5-skill level is performed by the units
utilizing this STS, exportable courses, and CDCs. Upgrade to the 5-skill level requires
completion of CDC 2A654 and minimum 12 months upgrade training or 9 months for retrainees.

10.3. Craftsman Level Training (7-Level):

10.3.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is located in the official specialty description
in Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), paragraph 3.

10.3.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: internal hardware such as valves,
interconnects, lines, gauges, controls, pumps, and other attachments; sealing materials; sheet
metal parts; rubber properties and organic sealing compound applications; layout drawing use;
technical publications; concepts and applications of maintenance directives; work policies and
procedures; and proper handling, use, and disposal of hazardous waste and material.
10.3.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for
the journeyman level. Completion of a CCAF degree is desirable.

10.3.1.3. Training. Completion of CDC 2AX7X, Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman Course is
mandatory for award of AFSC 2A674. Training provided by the 7-level CDC builds upon the
trainees’ current knowledge base and provides more in-depth knowledge to support OJT



                                                14
                                                                         CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
requirements. Training on tasks identified in the STS is provided by qualification training and
OJT.

10.3.1.4. Experience. Individuals must be qualified in and possess AFSC 2A654 and have
experience supervising functions such as installing, repairing, troubleshooting, inspecting or
modifying aircraft fuel systems.

10.3.1.5. Other. For award and retention of this specialty, normal color vision as defined in
AFI 48-123, Medical Examination and Standards, is mandatory.

10.3.2. Training Sources and Resources. . Upgrade to the 7-level will require completion of
all AFCFM directed core tasks, a minimum of 12 months OJT as SSgt, and completion of the
2AX7X CDC. Exportable courses have been developed and are provided to field units to help
standardize OJT, enhance the training effort, and minimize the impact on productive man-hours.

10.3.3. Implementation. Upgrade to the 7-level will require completion of all AFCFM directed
core tasks, a minimum of 12 months OJT as SSgt, and completion of the 2AX7X CDC.

10.4. Superintendent Level Training (9-Level):

10.4.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is located in the official specialty description
in Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), paragraph 3.

10.4.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: internal hardware such as valves,
interconnects, lines, gauges, controls, pumps, and other attachments; sealing materials; sheet
metal parts; rubber properties and organic sealing compound applications; layout drawing use;
technical publications; concepts and applications of maintenance directives; work policies and
procedures; and proper handling, use, and disposal of hazardous waste and material.
10.4.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for
the craftsman level. However, completion of a CCAF degree is desirable.

10.4.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2A690, promotion to SMSgt is mandatory.

10.4.1.4. Experience. For award of AFSC 2A690, qualification in and possession of AFSC
2A673, 2A674, 2A675, or 2A676 is mandatory. Also, experience is mandatory directing
functions such as installing, maintaining, repairing, overhauling, or modifying aircraft fuel
systems; aircraft fuel and in-flight refueling systems; aircraft and equipment hydraulic systems;
or aircraft and equipment electrical and environmental systems.

10.4.2. Training Sources/Resources. Duty position qualification represents the required
resources for upgrade to the 9-skill level.

10.4.3. Implementation. The 9-level will be awarded after promotion to SMSgt.

Section D - Resource Constraints

11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints precluding optimal/desired
training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower.


                                                15
                                                                        CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what
effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section are actions
required, office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource constraints will
be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

12. Apprentice Level Training: The following manpower/man-year and equipment constraints
were identified during the U&TW:

12.1. Manpower/Man-Year Constraints. None

12.2. Equipment Constraints. None

13. Five-Level Training: None

14. Seven-Level Training. None

Section E. - Transitional Training Guide. There are no transition training requirements. This
area is reserved.




                                                16
                                                                        CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014

PART II

Section A - Course Objectives

1. Measurement. Each proficiency coded STS task or knowledge item taught at the technical
school is measured through the use of an objective. An objective is a written instruction for the
student so he or she knows what is expected of them to successfully complete training on each
task. Each objective is comprised of a condition, behavior, and standard which states what is
expected of the student for each task. The condition is the setting in which the training takes
place. The behavior is the action a student must demonstrate to accomplish a task (i.e., remove
and install wheel and tire assembly). The standard is the level of performance that is measured
to ensure the STS proficiency code level is attained. Each objective uses letter code(s) to
identify how it is measured. All objectives use the PC code which indicates a progress check is
used to measure subject or task knowledge. Progress checks are also used to measure student
accomplishment of performance objectives. W indicates a comprehensive written test and is
used to measure the subject and/or task knowledge at the end of a block of instruction. PC/W
indicates separate measurement of both knowledge and performance elements using a written
test and a performance progress check.

2. Standard. The minimum standard is 70% on written examinations. Standards for
performance measurement are indicated in the objective and delineated on the individual
progress checklist. The checklist is used by the instructor to document each student’s progress
on each task. Instructor assistance is provided as needed during the progress check, and students
may be required to repeat all or part of the behavior until satisfactory performance is attained.
Students must satisfactorily complete all PCs prior to taking the written test.

3. Proficiency Level. Review column 4A of the STS to determine the proficiency level of a
particular task or knowledge item. Review the course objective list to determine which STS item
the objective supports. Review the proficiency code key in Part II, Section E of this CFETP for
an explanation of the proficiency codes. Most task performance is taught to the “2b” proficiency
level which means the students can do most parts of the task, but does need assistance on the
hardest parts of the task (partially proficient). The student can also determine step by step
procedures for doing the task. Most specific task performance is taught to the “1b” proficiency
level which means the student can do simple parts of the task, and needs to be told or shown
how to do most of the task (extremely limited). The student can also determine step by step
procedures for doing the task.

4. Course Objectives. A detailed listing of initial skills objectives may be obtained by
submitting a written request to the AETC Training Manager, 361 TRS/TRR, 501 Missile Road,
Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2264 or email UDG_361TRS_TRAININGMANAGERS@us.af.mil.

Section B - Support Material

5. The following list of support material is not all-inclusive; however, it covers the most
frequently referenced areas. Support material is any training package designed to enhance the
learning process at any level of training. Refer to Education and Training Course
Announcements (ETCA) for information on AETC formal courses at https://etca.randolph.af.mil.


                                                17
                                                                        CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014


5.1. Contact information for the 982 TRG courses is 912 I Avenue, Suite 3, Sheppard AFB, TX,
76311-2361, DSN 736-4801, https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?channelPageId=s6925EC1353200FB5E044080020E329A9.

5.2. Interactive Courseware (ICW) courses are available from (or under development by) the
367 TRS, 6058 Aspen, Bldg. 1295, Hill AFB, Utah 84056-5805 https://367trss.hill.af.mil/.
Questions should be referred to the customer service number at DSN 777-2788.

Section C - Training Course Index

6. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the 2A6X4
Aircraft Fuel Systems Specialty and shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their
career field training programs. This index lists Air Force resident, CDC’s, and exportable
courses used to support training for this specialty. Refer to the Air Force Education and Training
Course Announcements (ETCA) for information on AETC formal courses listed below
https://etca.randolph.af.mil.

7. Air Force In-Resident Courses.

   COURSE NO.                   COURSE TITLE                 LOCATION          USER
J3ABR2A634 048A        Aircraft Fuel Systems Apprentice      361 TRS           AF/ANG/AFRC

For further information on the following course, contact the OPR at:
  361 TRS/TRR
  501 Missile Road
  Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2264
  DSN 736-3684 or UDG_361TRS_TRAININGMANAGERS@us.af.mil

8. Career Development Courses (CDC).

 COURSE NUMBER                          COURSE TITLE                           USER
CDC 2A654                 Aircraft Fuel Systems Journeyman                AF/ANG/AFRC
CDC 2AX7X                 Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman                 AF/ANG/AFRC

For further information contact the OPR at:
  361 TRS/TRR
  501 Missile Road
  Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2264
  DSN 736-5311




                                               18
                                                                     CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014

9. Exportable Courses.

 COURSE NUMBER                                TITLE                        OPR      MEDIA
J6AZWXXXXX 0G1A             AF Technical Order System (General)          362 TRS    WBT
J6AZWXXXXX 0A1A             AF Technical Order System (Advanced)         362 TRS    WBT

For further information contact the OPR at:
  362 TRS
  613 10th Ave
  Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2352
  DSN 736-5206/6184
  https://etca.randolph.af.mil/

Additional information can be found at:

  367 TRSS                                982 MXS/TSU
  6058 Aspen Ave                          912 I Ave Ste 4
  Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805                 Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2334
  DSN 777-7830/8741                       DSN 736-3001
       https://367trss.hill.af.mil/       https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
                                          af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?command=org&channelPageI
                                          d=s6925EC1353200FB5E044080020E329A9

COURSE TITLE              WEB SITE                            OPR         USER
G081 Maintenance          https://367trss.hill.af.mil/        367 TRSS    AF/ANG/AFRC
Data Collection

For further information contact the OPR at:
  367 TRSS
  6058 Aspen Ave
  Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805
  DSN 777-7830/8741
  367TRSS.Helpdesk@hill.af.mil

Interactive Courseware (ICW) courses are available from or are under development by, 982
MXS/TSU, Sheppard AFB, Texas, 367 TRS/TRSS at Hill AFB, Utah.

For further information contact the OPRs at:

  367 TRSS                                982 MXS/TSU
  6058 Aspen Ave                          912 I Ave Ste 4
  Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805                 Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2334
  DSN 777-7830/8741                       DSN 736-3001
  https://367trss.hill.af.mil/            https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
                                          af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?command=org&channelPageI
                                          d=s6925EC1353200FB5E044080020E329A9



                                                  19
                                                                 CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014

10. Training Detachment (TD) Courses.

COURSE NUMBER                        COURSE TITLE                                OPR
J4AMP2A6X4 A01A B-1B Aircraft Fuel Systems                                     372 TRS
J4AMP2A6X4 A02A B-2 Aircraft Fuel Systems                                      372 TRS
J4AMP2A6X4 A03A B-52H Aircraft Fuel Systems Maintenance                        372 TRS
J4AMP2A6X4 A04A C-5 Aircraft Fuel System Craftsman                             373TRS
J4AMP2A6X4 A07A C-17A Fuel Systems                                             373 TRS
J4AMP2A6X4 A17A C-130 Fuel Systems Craftsman                                   373 TRS
J4AMP2A6X4 A18A KC-135 Aircraft Fuel System Craftsman                          373 TRS
J4AMP2A6X4 A22A Aircraft Fuel System Craftsman (E-3)                           373 TRS
J4AMP2A6X4 A25A F-15 Aircraft Fuel Systems Maintenance                         372 TRS
J4AMP2A6X4 A26A F-16 HYDRAZINE TANK SERVICING                                  372 TRS
J4AMP2A6X4 A27B F-22A Fuel System and On-Board Inert Gas Generating            372 TRS
                System (Conversion Training)
J4AMP2A6X4 A30B HH-60 Fuel System Craftsman                                    373 TRS
J4AMP2A6X4 A31A KC-10A Aircraft Fuel Systems                                   373 TRS
J4AMP2A6X4 A35A RQ-4B Global Hawk Aircraft Fuel Systems                        372 TRS
J4AMP2A6X4 B17A C-130J Fuel Systems (Operator Maintenance)                     372 TRS
J4AMP2A6X4 B25C F-15 Conformal Fuel Tank Operation and Maintenance             372 TRS
J4AMP2A6X4 B26A F-16 Aircraft Fuel System                                      372 TRS
J4AMP30000 B27C Integrated Maintenance Data Systems                            372 TRS
J4AMP2A6X4 C25A F-15 War Ready Material (WRM) Fuel Tank Build-up               372 TRS
                (Initial)
J4AMP2A6X4 C26A F-16 Initial WRM 370/300 Gallon Tank Build Up                  372 TRS
J4AMP2A6X4 A41A U-2 Aircraft Fuel Systems                                      372 TRS
J4AMP2A6X4 A00A A-10 Aircraft Fuel Systems                                     372 TRS
J4AMP2A6X4 A00A E-8C Fuel Systems Craftsman                                    373 TRS
J4AMP2A6X4 Z28A F-35 Block 1 Fuels                                             372 TRS
J4AMP2AXXXE48A G081 Flightline Basic                                           373 TRS
J4AMP2AXXXF48A G081 Flightline Advanced                                        373 TRS
J4AMP2AXXXG48A G081 Backshop Basic                                             373 TRS
J4AMP2AXXXH48A G081 Backshop Advanced                                          373 TRS

For further information on the TD courses, contact the OPR at:

  982 TRG
  912 I Ave Suite 3
  Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2361
  DSN 736-4801

https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?command=org&channelPageId=s6925EC1353200FB5E044080020E
329A9




                                              20
                                                                         CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014

Section D - MAJCOM Unique Requirements

11. Mission Design Series (MDS) Specific Training Requirements

11.1. Purpose. Attachments identify Mission Design Series (MDS) specific training
requirements (core tasks) for an individual to become duty position qualified on a particular
aircraft.

11.2. MAJCOM Functional Managers will review attachments during the annual CFETP
review and submit any desired changes to these attachments or the CFETP to the AETC Training
Manager who will submit them to the AFCFM for review and approval.

12. For MAJCOM unique requirements, refer to the MAJCOM mandatory course lists.

Section E - Specialty Training Standard

13. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by Air Education
and Training Command for the apprentice class beginning 15 April 2014 with a graduation date
of 5 Jun 2014. Field activation date of the 5-level CDC’s is projected to be June 2014.

14. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:

14.1. Lists in column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common tasks,
knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-,
and 7-skill level. All tasks with Training Requirements will continue to be taught during war
time.

14.2. Identifies in column 2 (Core Tasks) by asterisk (*), specialty-wide training requirements.

14.2.1. Core tasks which are not applicable to base assigned aircraft or equipment are not
required for upgrade (units are not required to send personnel TDY for core task training).

14.2.2. For units with more than one mission design series (MDS) (e.g. A-10, C-130) aircraft,
upgrade trainees need only complete core tasks on a single mission design. MFMs, unit
commanders, and/or supervisors may require trainees to complete core task training on
additional MDS aircraft, if desired. If some of these core tasks involve training in another unit
on base, trainees must still complete all core tasks relevant to at least one MDS aircraft.
Flightline assigned personnel must complete backshop core tasks and vice versa. All units are
bound by the requirements in this CFETP and will accommodate core task trainees from other
units.

14.2.3. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and
knowledge training requirements. Use Maintenance Information System to document technician
qualifications, if available. Task certification must show a certification or completed date.

14.2.4. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the
proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the
task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course. When two

                                                21
                                                                         CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014

codes are used in columns 4A and 4C (e.g., 2b/b), the first code is the established requirement
for resident training on the task/knowledge, and the second code indicates the level of training
provided in the course due to equipment shortages or other resource constraints. See
AFCDA/AFSC/CDC listing maintained by the unit training manager for current CDC listing.

14.2.5. Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion
System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the USAF Airmen
Advancement Division by SNCOs with extensive practical experience in their career fields. The
tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development team members
as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon study references
listed in the Enlisted Promotions References and Requirements catalog. Individual
responsibilities are outlined in AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion Program. WAPS is not
applicable to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve.

14.3. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to
indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career
development courses.

14.4. Job Qualification Standard. Becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job
training when placed in Training Record or Automated Training and used according to AFI 36-
2201. For OJT, the tasks in column 1 are trained and qualified to the go/no go level. "Go" means
the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets local requirements for accuracy,
timeliness, and correct procedures. When used as a JQS, the following requirements apply:

14.4.1. Documentation. Document and certify completion of training IAW AFI 36-2201. Use
of Part II and attachments one and two in conjunction with attachments three through twenty
three (as applicable to assigned MDS) of this CFETP are mandatory in individual training
records. Use of Part I of this CFETP is optional. Identify duty position requirements by entering
into automated training management systems. As a minimum, complete the following columns in
Part 2 of the CFETP: date training started, date training completed, trainee initials, and trainer
initials.

14.4.2. Transcribing from Old CFETP to New CFETP. All AFJQSs and previous CFETPs
are replaced by this CFETP; therefore, transcribing of all training records to this CFETP STS is
mandatory. Use this CFETP STS (or automated STS) to identify and certify all past and current
qualifications. Document and certify all previous and current training IAW AFI 36-2201.

14.4.3. Documenting Career Knowledge. When a CDC is not available, the supervisor
identifies CFETP Part II training references that the trainee requires for career knowledge and
ensures, as a minimum, that trainees cover the mandatory items in Air Force Enlisted
Classification Directory (AFECD). For two-time CDC course exam failures, supervisors
identify all Part II items corresponding to the areas covered by the CDC. The trainee completes
a study of references, undergoes evaluation by the trainer, and receives certification on the
CFETP Part II. Supervisors must document successful completion of career knowledge prior
to submission of a CDC waiver.

14.5. AF Form 797. When additional items not listed in the CFETP Part II are necessary in the
current duty assignment, enter them on the AF Form 797 (Work center JQS).

                                                22
                                                                       CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014

15. Recommendations: Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates to
the AETC training manager at 361 TRS/TRR, 501 Missile Road, Sheppard AFB TX, 76311-
2264, DSN 736-3684. Please reference specific STS paragraphs. A customer service
information line has been installed for the supervisor's convenience to identify graduates who
may have received over or under training on task/knowledge items listed in this training
standard. For a quick response to problems, call our customer service information line, DSN
736-5236, any time, day or night or contact 82TRGCSIL@us.af.mil.


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL                                    JUDITH A FEDDER,
                                            Lieutenant General, USAF
                                            DCS/Installations and Logistics



23 Attachments


  1.    Proficiency Code Key (mandatory)
  2.    Specialty Training Standard (STS) (mandatory)
  3.    General Aircraft Requirements (optional)
  4.    A-10 Requirements (optional)
  5.    B-1B Requirements (optional)
  6.    B-2 Requirements (optional)
  7.    B-52H Requirements (optional)
  8.    C-5 Requirements (optional)
  9.    F-35 Requirements (optional
  10.   C-17 Requirements (optional)
  11.   C-18/E-8C Requirements (optional)
  12.   C-130 Requirements (optional)
  13.   C/KC-135 Requirements (optional)
  14.   E-3 Requirements (optional)
  15.   E-4 Requirements (optional)
  16.   F-15 Requirements (optional)
  17.   F-16 Requirements (optional)
  18.   F-22A Requirements (optional)
  19.   CV-22 Requirements (optional)
  20.   1H-60 (H)(C) Requirements (optional)
  21.   KC-10 Requirements (optional)
  22.   U-2 Requirements (optional)
  23.   2AX7X Requirements (optional)



                                               23
                                                         PROFICIENCY CODE KEY
                                                                                                                 CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014

                                                    This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                             Initials (Written)                       SSN (Last four)

                                         Printed Name Of Training/Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                       N/I

N/I                                                                         N/I

N/I                                                                         N/I

N/I                                                                         N/I

N/I                                                                         N/I

N/I                                                                         N/I

N/I                                                                         N/I

N/I                                                                         N/I


                                                         QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                                Proficiency Code Key
                                Scale
                                Value        Definition: The individual
                                  1          Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (Extremely
                                             Limited)
           Task                    2         Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
       Performance                 3         Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
          Levels                   4         Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task. (Highly
                                             Proficient)
                                   a         Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)
         *Task                     b         Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)
       Knowledge                   c         Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
        Levels                               (Operating Principles)
                                  d          Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
                                  A          Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
        **Subject                 B          Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (Principles)
        Knowledge                 C          Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
          Levels                  D          Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the courses or CDCs.

/ This mark is used in course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources (3c/b, 2b/b, 2b/X etc.).

X This mark is used alone in the course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.




                                                                         24
                                                                                                                                   ATTACHMENT 1
                                                 SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                                CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A        B       C        D           E       A             B                 C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level         7 Skill
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                  Level                           Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng Trainee    Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)    (1) (1)              (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp Initials   Initials      Initials Course Course CDC Course           CDC
NOTE 1:   This STS is mandatory for all 2A6X4 personnel.
NOTE 2:   Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3:   All tasks and knowledge identified as training requirements in column 4A will be taught during wartime.
NOTE 4:   Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.
2.1.      AIRCRAFT FUEL SYSTEMS
          CAREER LADDER
          PROGRESSION                                                                                    -      -       A                   -             -
          TR: Air Force Enlisted
          Classification Directory (AFECD)
2.2.      AF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY
          AND HEALTH (AFOSH)
          PROGRAM
          TR: AFI 90-821, AFI 91-203,
          AFI 48-145
2.2.1.    Principles of ground safety
          TR: AFMAN 91-201,                                                                              B      -       B                   -             -
          AFI 91-202, AFI 91-203
2.2.2.    Hazards of the Industrial Area TR:
          AFIs 91-101 and 32-2001,                                                                       -      -       -                   -             -
          AFI 91-203
2.2.3.    Ground and bond aircraft and
          equipment                              *                                                      2b      -       b                   -             -
          TR: TOs 00-25-172 and 1-1-3
2.2.4.    Practice housekeeping consistent
          with safety of personnel and
          equipment                                                                                              2b        -        b       -             -
          TR: AFI 21-101, 91-203
2.2.5.    Apply safety precautions when
          using tools and test equipment
                                                                                                                 2b        -        b       -             -
          TR: TOs 1-1-3, 32-1-101, and
          Applicable Equipment Manuals
2.2.6.    Apply precautions for handling
          chemicals
                                                   *                                                             2b        -        b       -             -
          TR: TOs 1-1-3, 42B-1-1,
          AFI 91-203
2.2.7.    Apply precautions for handling
          fuels                                    *                                                              b        -        b       -             -
          TR: AFI 91-203, TO 42B-1-1
2.2.8.    Select /use personnel fall restraint
          harnesses /devices                       *                                                              a        -        -       -             -
          TR: AFI 91-203
2.2.9.    Contain fuel spills
          TR: TOs 1-1-3, 42B-1-1,                  *                                                              b        -        b       -             -
          AFI 91-203
2.2.10.   Use and maintain personal
          protective equipment                     *                                                             2b        -        b       -             -
          TR: AFI 91-203


                                                                        25
SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT 2
                                                 SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                                CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A        B       C        D           E       A             B                 C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level         7 Skill
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                  Level                           Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng Trainee    Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)    (1) (1)              (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp Initials   Initials      Initials Course Course CDC Course           CDC
2.2.11.   Use and Maintain Respirators
                                                   *                                                              a        -        b       -             -
          TR: AFOSH Std 48-137
2.2.12.   Apply precautions for handling
          compressed gases                                                                                        b        -        b       -             -
          TR: TO 42B5-1-2
2.2.13.   Foreign object damage (FOD)
          prevention program                                                                                      B        -        B       -             -
          TR: AFI 21-101
2.2.14.   Dropped object prevention
          program (DOPP)                                                                                          B        -        -       -             -
          TR: AFI 21-101
2.2.15.   Air Force Hazard Communication
          Program                                                                                                 -        -        -       -             -
          TR: AFI 90-821
2.2.16.   Apply precautions when towing
          AGE equipment                                                                                           -        -        -       -             -
          TR: AFI 91-203
2.2.17.   Maintain AF Form 55
                                                                                                                  -        -        -       -             -
          TR: AFI 91-301
2.2.18.   Handling and maintenance of
          explosive loaded aircraft                                                                               -        -        -       -             -
          TR: 11A-1-33
2.2.19.   Use of emergency eye wash and
          showers                                                                                                 b        -        -       -             -
          TR: AFI 91-203
2.2.20.   Fire extinguisher training
                                                                                                                  b        -        -       -             -
          TR: AFI 91-301
2.3.      AF Risk Management
                                                                                                                  -        -        -       -             -
          TR: AFI 90-802
2.4.      Maintenance Resource
                                                                                                                  A        -        -       -             -
          Management (MRM)
2.5.      TECHNICAL PUBLICATIONS
          TR:00-5 and 00-20 series TOs
2.5.1.    Fundamentals of TO system
          TR: AFPD 63-1 and 20-1;                                                                                 B        -        B       -             -
          TOs 00-5-1
2.5.2.    Use technical publications
          TR: TO 00-5-1, 00-20 series and          *                                                             2b        -        -       -             -
          applicable TOs
2.5.3.    Web-based technical publications
          and instructions                                                                                        B        -        -       -             -
          TR: TO 00-5-1
2.5.4.    Use Interactive Electronic
          Technical Manual System
                                                                                                                2b/X       -        -       -             -
          (IETMS)
          TR: TO 00-5-1
2.5.5     AFTO Form 22, Technical Order
          Improvement Report And Reply                                                                            B        -        B       -             -
          TR: TO 00-5-1

                                                                        26
SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT 2
                                                 SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                                CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A        B       C        D           E       A             B                 C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level         7 Skill
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                  Level                           Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng Trainee    Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)    (1) (1)              (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp Initials   Initials      Initials Course Course CDC Course           CDC
2.6.       HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
           AND WASTE HANDLING
           ACCORDING TO
           ENVIRONMENTAL
           STANDARDS
           TR: AFMAN 48-155 AFI 48-145
           and 90-821 and local directives
2.6.1.     Types of hazardous
                                                                                                                  B        -        -       -             -
           materials/fluids
2.6.2.     Handling procedures                                                                                    B        -        -       -             -
2.6.3.     Storage and labeling                                                                                   B        -        -       -             -
2.6.4.     Proper disposal                                                                                        B        -        -       -             -
2.7.       MAINTENANCE
           MANAGEMENT
           TR: AFI 21-101 and applicable
           Command Directives
2.7.1.     Organizational structure of the
           MXG                                                                                                    -        -        A       -             -
           TR: AFI 21-101
2.7.2.     Responsibilities of the
                                                                                                                  -        -        -       -             -
           Maintenance Group Commander
2.7.3.     Maintenance accountability                                                                             -        -        -       -             -
2.7.4.     Resource management                                                                                    -        -        -       -             -
2.7.5.     Maintenance incident investigation
                                                                                                                  -        -        -       -             -
           and prevention
2.7.6      Aircraft inspection concepts
                                                                                                                  -        -        A       -             -
           TR: TO 00-20-1
2.7.7.     Use maintenance forms
           TR: TO 00-20 series
2.7.7.1.   AFTO Form 95                            *                                                             2b        -        -       -             -
2.7.7.2.   AFTO Form 350                           *                                                             2b        -        -       -             -
2.7.7.3.   AFTO Form 244                           *                                                             2b        -        b       -             -
2.7.7.4.   AFTO Form 427                           *                                                             2b        -        -       -             -
2.7.7.5.   AFTO Form 781A                          *                                                             2b        -        b       -             -
2.7.7.6.   AFTO Form 781H                          *                                                             2b        -        b       -             -
2.7.7.7.   AFTO Form 781K                          *                                                             2b        -        b       -             -
2.7.8.     Use Integrated Maintenance Data
           System (IMDS)
           TR: AFCSM 21 series
2.7.8.1.   Document completed maintenance
                                                   *                                                              b        -        -       -             -
           actions
2.7.8.2.   Perform maintenance inquiries           *                                                              b        -        -       -             -


                                                                        27
SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT 2
                                                 SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                                CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A        B       C        D           E       A             B                 C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level         7 Skill
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                  Level                           Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng Trainee    Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)    (1) (1)              (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp Initials   Initials      Initials Course Course CDC Course           CDC
2.7.8.3.   Schedule maintenance
                                                   *                                                              b        -        -       -             -
           discrepancies
2.7.8.4.   Create aircraft discrepancies           *                                                              b        -        -       -             -
2.7.8.5.   Close aircraft discrepancies            *                                                              b        -        -       -             -
2.7.8.6.   Defer aircraft discrepancies            *                                                              -        -        -       -             -
2.7.8.7.   Generate aircraft forms                                                                                -        -        -       -             -
2.7.8.8.   Supply transactions                                                                                    -        -        -       -             -
2.7.9.     Use GO-81
           TR: AFCSM 21 series
2.7.9.1.   Document completed maintenance
                                                   *                                                              b        -        -       -             -
           actions
2.7.9.2.   Perform maintenance inquiries           *                                                              b        -        -       -             -
2.7.9.3.   Schedule maintenance
                                                   *                                                              b        -        -       -             -
           discrepancies
2.7.9.4.   Create aircraft discrepancies           *                                                              b        -        -       -             -
2.7.9.5.   Close aircraft discrepancies            *                                                              b        -        -       -             -
2.7.9.6.   Defer aircraft discrepancies            *                                                              -        -        -       -             -
2.7.9.7.   Generate aircraft forms                                                                                -        -        -       -             -
2.7.9.8.   Supply transactions                                                                                    -        -        -       -             -
2.7.9.9.   Complete G081 Web Based
                                                   *                                                              -        -        -       -             -
           Training
2.8.       MAINTENANCE SUPPLY AND
           EQUIPMENT MANAGEMENT
           TR: AFI 21-101
2.8.1.     Process and control materiel and
           repairable assets Due In From
                                                                                                                  -        -        B       -             -
           Maintenance (DIFM)
           TR: AFMAN 23-110
2.8.2.     Deficiency Reporting (DR)
           System/Joint Defense Reporting
                                                                                                                  -        -        B       -             -
           System (JDRS)
           TR: 00-35D-54; AFCSM 21 series
2.8.3.     Standard Base Supply System
           (SBSS)                                                                                                 -        -        B       -             -
           TR: AFCSM 21 series
2.8.4.     Supply documents management                                                                            -        -        -       -             -
2.8.5.     Equipment account management                                                                           -        -        B       -             -
2.8.6.     Priority System                                                                                        -        -        -       -             -
2.8.7.     Analyze maintenance reports
                                                                                                                  -        -        -       -             -
           TR: AFIs 21-101; TO 00-20-1
2.8.8.     FEDLOG                                                                                                 -        -        -       -             -


                                                                        28
SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT 2
                                                 SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                                CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A        B       C        D           E       A             B                 C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level         7 Skill
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                  Level                           Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng Trainee    Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)    (1) (1)              (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp Initials   Initials      Initials Course Course CDC Course           CDC
2.9.       TRAINING
           TR: AFIs 21-101 and 36-2201
2.9.1.     Evaluate personnel to determine
                                                                                                                  -        -        -       -             -
           needs for formal/informal training
2.9.2.     Plan and supervise OJT
2.9.2.1.   Prepare job qualification standards                                                                    -        -        -       -             -
2.9.2.2.   Conduct training                                                                                       -        -        -       -             -
2.9.2.3.   Monitor effectiveness of training                                                                      -        -        -       -             -
2.9.2.4.   Maintain training
           records/Automated Training                                                                             -        -        -       -             -
           Records
2.9.2.5    Career Field Education and
           Training Plan (CFETP)                                                                                  -        -        -       -             -
           familiarization
2.10.      OPERATE/INSPECT/MAINTAIN
           TR: TOs 1-1-3, 32-1-101,
           32B14-3-1-101, and Applicable
           TOs
2.10.1.    Hand tools                                                                                            2b        -        b       -             -
2.10.2.    Special tools and test equipment
2.10.2.1 Torque wrenches                           *                                                             2b        -        b       -             -
2.10.2.2. Bonding meter                                                                                           -        -        b       -             -
2.10.2.3. Leak tracing devices                                                                                    -        -        a       -             -
2.10.2.4. Pressurization test kits                                                                                -        -        -       -             -
2.10.2.5. Pressure/vacuum gauges                                                                                  -        -        -       -             -
2.10.2.6. External tank pressure test adapter                                                                     -        -        -       -             -
          assemblies
2.10.2.7. Helium Tester                                                                                           -        -        -       -             -
2.10.2.8. Photo ionization detector (PID)          *                                                             2b        -        b       -             -
2.10.2.9. Multimeter                               *                                                             2b        -        b       -             -
2.10.2.10. Explosion-proof lighting
           equipment
                                                                                                                 2b        -        a       -             -
           TR: TO 1-1-3,and applicable
           manuals
2.10.2.11. Manometer                                                                                             2b        -        b       -             -
           TR: TO 35DA11-5-1
2.10.2.12. Universal external fuel tank                                                                           -        -        -       -             -
           certifier
2.10.2.13. Injection gun, curing                                                                                  -        -        a       -             -
2.10.2.14. Sealant filleting gun                                                                                  -        -        b       -             -
2.10.2.15. Injection gun, non-curing                                                                              -        -        a       -             -
                                                                        29
SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT 2
                                                 SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                                  CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                    2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                     A       B        A        B       C        D           E       A             B                 C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill Level         7 Skill
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                    Level                           Level

                                                                     Tng      Tng Trainee    Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)    (1) (1)              (2)
                                                   5 Level 7 Level
                                                                     Start   Comp Initials   Initials      Initials Course Course CDC Course           CDC
2.10.2.16. Aerial refueling tester                                                                                  b        -        -       -             -
           TR: TO 33D2-13-13-1
2.10.2.17. Fuel servicing cart
                                                                                                                    -        -        -       -             -
           TR: TO 35D29-8-12-1
2.10.2.18. Portable purging equipment                                                                              2b        -        b       -             -
           TR: Applicable TOs/manuals
2.10.2.19. Pressure/vacuum box                                                                                      -        -        -       -             -
           TR: Applicable TOs/manuals
2.10.2.20. Fuel quantity testers                                                                                    -        -        -       -             -
2.10.2.21. Breathing air systems                     *                                                              b        -        b       -             -
           TR: Applicable TOs/manuals
2.10.2.22. Explosion-proof pneumatic
           vacuum                                                                                                   b        -        b       -             -
           TR: Applicable manuals
2.10.2.23. Tensiometer                                                                                              -        -        -       -             -
2.10.2.24. External fuel tank maintenance                                                                           -        -        -       -             -
           stand/dollies
2.10.2.25. Lifting fixtures, slings, and devices                                                                    -        -        -       -             -
2.10.2.26. Micrometers                                                                                              -        -        -       -             -
2.10.2.27. Borescope                                                                                                -        -        -       -             -
2.11.     FACILITIES
          TR: Local OIs
2.11.1.   Open/close hangar doors                                                                                   -        -        -       -             -
2.11.2.   Operate purging equipment                                                                                 -        -        -       -             -
2.11.3.   Fire suppression system                                                                                   -        -        -       -             -
2.11.4.   Prepare Lockout-Tag-out tags                                                                              -        -        -       -             -
2.11.5.   Fall Restraint System                                                                                     -        -        -       -             -
2.11.6.   Lighting System                                                                                           -        -        -       -             -
2.11.7.   Air Compressors                                                                                           -        -        -       -             -
2.11.8.   Overhead Crane Systems                                                                                    -        -        -       -             -
2.11.9.   Aircraft Power Generators                                                                                 -        -        -       -             -
2.11.10. Video Monitoring System                                                                                    -        -        -       -             -
2.12.     INSPECT/USE AEROSPACE
          GROUND EQUIPMENT
          TR: Applicable TOs
2.12.1.   Centralized Aircraft Support
          System (CASS)                                                                                             -        -        -       -             -
          TR: Applicable TOs
2.12.2.   Fuel bowsers                                                                                              -        -        -       -             -



                                                                          30
SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD                                                                                                         ATTACHMENT 2
                                                 SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                                CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A        B       C        D           E       A             B                 C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level         7 Skill
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                  Level                           Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng Trainee    Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)    (1) (1)              (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp Initials   Initials      Initials Course Course CDC Course           CDC
2.12.3.   8 bottle nitrogen cart
                                                                                                                  -        -        -       -             -
          TR: TO 35D29-8-3-1
2.12.4.   Self Generating Nitrogen
          Servicing Cart (SGNSC)                                                                                  -        -        -       -             -
          TR: 35D29-7-6-1
2.12.5.   HDU-13 Heater
                                                                                                                  -        -        b       -             -
          TR: TO 35E7-6-9-21
2.12.6.   Maintenance stands
2.12.6.1. B-1                                                                                                     b        -        a       -             -
          TR: TO 35A4-2-3-51
2.12.6.2. B-2                                                                                                     -        -        a       -             -
          TR: TO 35A4-2-3-11
2.12.6.3. B-4A                                                                                                    b        -        a       -             -
          TR: TO 35A4-2-5-1
2.12.6.4. B-5A                                                                                                    -        -        a       -             -
          TR: TO 35A4-2-6-1
2.12.6.5. B7-16                                                                                                   -        -        a       -             -
          TR: TO 35D34-26-1
2.12.6.6. Universal diesel powered
          (scissor stand)                                                                                         -        -        -       -             -
          TR: TO 35A4-2-60-1
2.12.6.7. Universal electric (scissor stand)                                                                      -        -        -       -             -
          TR: TO 35A4-2-61-1
2.12.6.8. Platform, servicing (Simon)                                                                             -        -        -       -             -
          TR: TO 35D34-31-1
2.12.7.   Powered AGE
2.12.7.1. Bleed air cart (-95)                                                                                    -        -        -       -             -
          TR: TO 35D12-2-14-1
2.12.7.2. Generator set, diesel (-86)                                                                             b        -        a       -             -
          TR: TO 35C2-3-469-11
2.12.7.3. Generator Set, diesel (-809)                                                                            -        -        a       -             -
2.12.7.4. Generator set (-60)                                                                                     b        -        a       -             -
          TR: TO 3SC2-3-372-1
2.12.7.5. Air conditioner, diesel driven                                                                          b        -        a       -             -
          TR: TO 33C-Series
2.12.7.6. Compressor, diesel (MC-7)                                                                               -        -        a       -             -
          TR: TO 34Y1-244-1
2.12.7.7. Compressor (MC2A) (Lowpack)                                                                             b        -        a       -             -
          TR: TO 34Y1-87-61
2.12.7.8. New Generation Heater (NGH)
          Portable Heater (HDU-43)                                                                                -        -        a       -             -
          TR: TO 35E7-2-11-21
2.12.7.9. Light cart                                                                                              -        -        -       -             -
          TR: 35F5 Series TOs
2.13.     AIRCRAFT GENERAL




                                                                        31
SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT 2
                                                 SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                                CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A        B       C        D           E       A             B                 C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level         7 Skill
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                  Level                           Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng Trainee    Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)    (1) (1)              (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp Initials   Initials      Initials Course Course CDC Course           CDC
2.13.1.   Types of aircraft construction/
          Mission Design Series/aircraft
                                                                                                                  A        -        B       -             -
          familiarization
          TR: Applicable TOs
2.13.2.   Types and use of hardware
                                                                                                                  B        -        B       -             -
          TR: TO 1-1A-8
2.13.3.   Fuel systems hose
          assemblies/tubing                                                                                       B        -        B       -             -
          TR: TO 42E1-1-1
2.13.4.   Install and inspect safetying
          devices (ie: Safety wire, safety
                                                   *                                                             2b        -        b       -             -
          cable, cotter pin, lock nuts)
          TR: TO 1-1A-8
2.13.5.   Chafing
          TR: TOs 1-1A-8, 1-1A-14, and                                                                            B        -        B       -             -
          42E-1-1
2.13.6.   Corrosion control
                                                                                                                  B        -        B       -             -
          TR: TO 1-1-691
2.13.7.   Fundamentals of low observable
                                                                                                                  -        -        A       -             -
          materials
2.14.     ELECTRICAL CIRCUITS
          APPLICABLE TO AIRCRAFT
          FUEL SYSTEMS
          TR: TO 31-1-141-1 and
          applicable TOs
2.14.1.   Interpret electrical circuits                                                                           -        -        b       -             -
2.14.2.   Electrical fundamentals                                                                                 A        -        B       -             -
2.14.3.   Check for voltage/power at fuel
                                                   *                                                             2b        -        b       -             -
          system components
2.14.4. Check for continuity of fuel               *                                                              -        -        b       -             -
          system components
2.15.     FUEL TANK/CELL ENTRY
          AND CONFINED SPACE
          PROCEDURES
          TR: AFOSH Stds 48-137,
          AFI 91-203; TO 1-1-3 and
          Applicable Aircraft TOs
2.15.1. Fuel tank/cell entry procedures                                                                           b        -        b       -             -
          (Master Entry Plan)
2.15.1.1. Determine authorized fuel system                 *                                                      -        -        b       -             -
          repair locations
2.15.1.2. Perform fuel configuration prior to                                                                     -        -        b       -             -
          fuel system maintenance
2.15.1.3. Drain fuel cells and tanks               *                                                              b        -        b       -             -
2.15.1.4. Perform aircraft fuel system             *                                                             2b        -        b       -             -
          tank/cell entry checklist
2.15.1.5. Prepare/Install WARNING tags             *                                                             2b        -        b       -             -


                                                                        32
SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT 2
                                                 SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                                CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A        B       C        D           E       A             B                 C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level         7 Skill
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                  Level                           Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng Trainee    Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)    (1) (1)              (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp Initials   Initials      Initials Course Course CDC Course           CDC
2.15.1.6. Remove/install access                                                                                  2b        -        b       -             -
           doors/panels
2.15.1.7. Remove/install and store fire                                                                          2b        -        b       -             -
           suppression foam
2.15.1.8. Perform fuel cell/ tank purge            *                                                             2b        -        b       -             -
           procedures
2.15.1.9. Perform fuel cell/tank ventilation       *                                                              -        -        -       -             -
           procedures
2.15.1.10. Perform tank depuddling                 *                                                              b        -        b       -             -
           procedures
2.15.2. Confined space procedures
           TR: TO 1-1-3; AFI 90-821,
           AFOSH Std 48-137, AFI 91-203,
           and applicable aircraft TOs
2.15.2.1. Perform confined space team              *                                                             2b        -        b       -             -
           member duties
2.15.2.2. Perform emergency response               *                                                              b        -        b       -             -
           procedures
2.15.2.3. Develop procedures for confined                                                                         -        -        -       -             -
           space entry
2.15.2.4. Prepare entry permit                     *                                                             2b        -        b       -             -
2.15.2.5. Perform confined space                   *                                                             2b        -        b       -             -
          atmospheric testing
2.15.2.6. Non-fuel systems personnel                       *                                                      -        -        -       -             -
          training
2.16.     INTEGRAL FUEL TANK
          MAINTENANCE
          TR: TO 1-1-3 and applicable
          aircraft TOs
2.16.1.   Integral tank construction features                                                                     B        -        B       -             -
2.16.2.   Tank and access door/panel
                                                                                                                  B        -        B       -             -
          sealing methods
2.16.3.   Fuel leak troubleshooting
2.16.3.1 Perform fuel leak path analysis           *                                                              b        -        b       -             -
2.16.3.2. Locate fuel leak exit points             *                                                             2b        -        b       -             -
2.16.3.3. Perform fuel leak evaluation             *                                                              b        -        b       -             -
2.16.3.4. Inspect tank interior for possible       *                                                             2b        -        b       -             -
          leak source
2.16.3.5. Perform leak source isolation
          procedures
2.16.3.5.1.Blowback                                *                                                             2b        -        b       -             -
2.16.3.5.2.Dye injection                                                                                          -        -        b       -             -
2.16.3.5.3.Positive pressurization                                                                               2b        -        b       -             -
2.16.3.5.4.Negative pressurization                                                                                -        -        b       -             -

                                                                        33
SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT 2
                                                 SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                                CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A        B       C        D           E       A             B                 C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level         7 Skill
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                  Level                           Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng Trainee    Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)    (1) (1)              (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp Initials   Initials      Initials Course Course CDC Course           CDC
2.16.3.5.5.Remove/install integral tank                                                                          2b        -        b       -             -
           braces
2.17.      FUEL CELLS
           TR: TOs 00-85A-03-1, 1-1-3, and
           Applicable Aircraft TOs
2.17.1.   Fuel cell constructional features                                                                       B        -        B       -             -
2.17.2.   Prepare fuel cells for storage and
                                                                                                                  b        -        b       -             -
          shipment
2.17.3.   Remove/install fuel cells                                                                              2b        -        b       -             -
2.17.4.   Fuel leak troubleshooting
2.17.4.1. Locate fuel leak exit points                                                                            b        -        b       -             -
2.17.4.2. Perform fuel leak evaluation                                                                            b        -        b       -             -
2.17.4.3. Inspect cell interior for possible                                                                     1a        -        b       -             -
          leak source
2.17.4.4. Inspect cell exterior for possible                                                                     1a        -        b       -             -
          leak source exit point
2.17.5.   Repair fuel cells
2.17.5.1. Hot patch                                                                                               -        -        a       -             -
2.17.5.2. Cold patch                                                                                              -        -        a       -             -
2.17.6.   Cell cavities
2.17.6.1. Inspect cell cavities                            *                                                      -        -        -       -             -
2.17.6.2. Prepare cell cavities                                                                                  2b        -        b       -             -
2.17.7.   Inspect fuel cells                                                                                     2b        -        b       -             -
2.17.8.   Test fuel cells                                                                                        2b        -        b       -             -
2.17.9.   Inspect installed fuel cells                                                                            -        -        -       -             -
2.18.     GENERAL MAINTENANCE/
          PRODUCTION TEAM
          MAINTENANCE TASKS
          TR: Applicable Aircraft Technical
          Orders
2.18.1.   Aircraft tow team member
2.18.1.1. Perform wing/tail walker duties                                                                         -        -        -       -             -
2.18.1.2. Brake operator                                                                                          -        -        -       -             -
2.18.2.   Perform refuel/defuel/transfer
          team member duties
2.18.2.1. Fireguard                                                                                               -        -        -       -             -
2.18.2.2. Panel operator                                                                                          -        -        -       -             -
2.18.2.3. Remove/install aircraft                                                                                 -        -        -       -             -
          maintenance access panels

                                                                        34
SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT 2
                                                 SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                                CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A        B       C        D           E       A             B                 C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level         7 Skill
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                  Level                           Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng Trainee    Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)    (1) (1)              (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp Initials   Initials      Initials Course Course CDC Course           CDC
2.18.2.4. Use aircraft interphone system                                                                          -        -        -       -             -
2.18.2.5. Perform aircraft marshaling                                                                             -        -        -       -             -
          procedures
2.18.2.6. Perform refuel/defuel supervisor                                                                        -        -        -       -             -
          duties
2.19.     HANDLING OF SEALANTS
          TR: TO 1-1-3, Applicable Aircraft
          TOs, and Applicable Material
          Safety Data Sheet (MSDS)
2.19.1.   Characteristics of sealants                                                                             B        -        B       -             -
2.19.2.   Prepare structures for sealants          *                                                             2b        -        b       -             -
2.19.3.   Mix sealants                             *                                                             2b        -        b       -             -
2.19.4.   Test mixed sealants                      *                                                             2b        -        b       -             -
2.19.5.   Apply sealants
2.19.5.1 With filleting gun                                                                                       -        -        b       -             -
2.19.5.2. By hand                                  *                                                             2b        -        b       -             -
2.19.5.3. Inject
2.19.5.3.1.Noncuring                                                                                              b        -        b       -             -
2.19.5.3.2.Curing                                                                                                 b        -        b       -             -
2.19.6.   Inspect applied sealants                         *                                                     2b        -        b       -             -
2.19.7.   Make temporary repairs                                                                                  b        -        b       -             -




                                                                        35
SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT 2
                                                GENERAL AIRCRAFT REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                  CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks                3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A         B        A         B       C         D           E       A             B                 C
                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill Level         7 Skill
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                      Level                           Level

                                                                    Tng        Tng Trainee    Trainer     Certifier  (1)      (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level   7 Level
                                                                    Start     Comp Initials   Initials     Initials Course   Course CDC Course CDC
NOTE 1:   This STS is mandatory for use if attachments 4 through 24 do not apply to trainee duties.
NOTE 2:   Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3:   All tasks and knowledge identified as training requirements in column 4A will be taught during wartime.
NOTE 4:   Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.
3.1.      AIRCRAFT GENERAL
          TR: Applicable TOs
3.1.1.    Perform Aircraft Safe for               *                                                                   -        -        -      -             -
          Maintenance
3.1.2.    Safety precautions                                                                                          -        -        -      -             -
3.1.3.    Apply/remove external power             *                                                                   -        -        -      -             -
3.1.4.    Remove, install, and inspect fuel
          tubing and couplings.
                                                                                                                      2b       -        b      -             -
          TR: TOs 1-1A-8, 42E-1-1, and
          applicable TOs
3.2.      ENGINE FEED AND
          CROSSFEED SYSTEMS
          TR: Applicable Aircraft TOs
3.2.1.    System operation                                                                                            B        -        B      -             -
3.2.2.    Perform operational check               *                                                                   2b       -        b      -             -
3.2.3.    Troubleshoot system                                *                                                        -        -        b      -             -
3.2.4.    Remove/install components                                                                                   2b       -        -      -             -
3.2.5.    Inspect components                                 *                                                        -        -        -      -             -
3.3.      FUEL JETTISON/DUMP
          SYSTEM
          TR: Applicable Aircraft TOs
3.3.1.    System operation                                                                                            B        -        B      -             -
3.3.2.    Perform operational check              *                                                                    b        -        b      -             -
3.3.3.    Troubleshoot system                                *                                                        -        -        b      -             -
3.3.4.    Remove/install components                                                                                   b        -        -      -             -
3.3.5.    Inspect components                                 *                                                        -        -        -      -             -
3.4.      TRANSFER SYSTEM
          TR: Applicable Aircraft TOs
3.4.1.    System operation                                                                                            B        -        B      -             -
3.4.2.    Perform operational check              *                                                                    2b       -        b      -             -
3.4.3.    Troubleshoot system                                *                                                        -        -        b      -             -
3.4.4.    Remove/install components                                                                                   2b       -        -      -             -
3.4.5.    Inspect components                                 *                                                         -       -        -       -            -

                                                                         36
GENERAL AIRCRAFT REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                      ATTACHMENT 3
                                                GENERAL AIRCRAFT REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                  CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks                3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A         B        A         B       C         D           E       A             B                 C
                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill Level         7 Skill
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                      Level                           Level

                                                                    Tng        Tng Trainee    Trainer     Certifier  (1)      (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level   7 Level
                                                                    Start     Comp Initials   Initials     Initials Course   Course CDC Course CDC
3.5.      GROUND REFUELING AND
          DEFUELING SYSTEMS
          TR: Applicable Aircraft TOs
3.5.1.    System operation                                                                                             B       -        B      -             -
3.5.2.    Perform operational check               *                                                                    2b      -        b      -             -
3.5.3.    Troubleshoot system                                *                                                         -       -        b      -             -

3.5.4.    Remove/install components                                                                                    2b      -        -      -             -

3.5.5.    Inspect components                                 *                                                         -       -        -      -             -

3.6.      AIR REFUELING RECEIVER
          SYSTEM
          TR: Applicable TOs
3.6.1.    System operation                                                                                             B       -        B      -             -

3.6.2.    Perform operational check               *                                                                    b       -        b      -             -

3.6.3.    Troubleshoot system                                *                                                         -       -        b      -             -

3.6.4.    Remove/install components                                                                                    b       -        -      -             -

3.6.5.    Inspect components                                 *                                                         -       -        -      -             -

3.7.      MANIFOLD
          SCAVENGE/DRAIN SYSTEM
          TR: Applicable TOs
3.7.1.    System operation                                                                                             B       -        B      -             -
3.7.2.    Perform operational check               *                                                                    b       -        b      -             -
3.7.3.    Troubleshoot system                                *                                                         -       -        b      -             -
3.7.4.    Remove/install components                                                                                    b       -        -      -             -
3.7.5.    Inspect components                                 *                                                         -       -        -      -             -
3.8.      TANK SCAVENGE SYSTEM
          TR: Applicable Aircraft TOs
3.8.1.    System operation                                                                                             B       -        B      -             -
3.8.2.    Perform operational check               *                                                                    b       -        b      -             -
3.8.3.    Troubleshoot system                                *                                                         -       -        b      -             -
3.8.4.    Remove/install components                                                                                    b       -        -      -             -
3.8.5.    Inspect components                                 *                                                         -       -        -      -             -
3.9.      PRESSURIZATION/VENT
          SYSTEM
          TR: Applicable Aircraft TOs
3.9.1.    System operation                                                                                            B        -        B      -             -


                                                                         37
GENERAL AIRCRAFT REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                      ATTACHMENT 3
                                                GENERAL AIRCRAFT REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                  CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks                3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A         B        A         B       C         D           E       A             B              C
                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill Level      7 Skill
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                      Level                        Level

                                                                    Tng        Tng Trainee    Trainer     Certifier  (1)      (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level   7 Level
                                                                    Start     Comp Initials   Initials     Initials Course   Course CDC Course CDC
3.9.2.    Perform operational check               *                                                                  b        -         b       -         -
3.9.3.    Troubleshoot system                               *                                                        -        -         b       -         -
3.9.4.    Remove/install components                                                                                  2b       -         -       -         -
3.9.5.    Inspect components                                *                                                        -        -         -       -         -
3.10.     HEAT EXCHANGER SYSTEM
          TR: Applicable Aircraft TOs
3.10.1.   System operation                                                                                           A        -         B       -         -
3.10.2.   Perform operational check               *                                                                  -        -         -       -         -
3.10.3.   Troubleshoot system                               *                                                        -        -         -       -         -
3.10.4.   Remove/install components                                                                                  -        -         -       -         -
3.10.5.   Inspect components                                *                                                        -        -         -       -         -
3.11.     FUEL QUANTITY
          INDICATING SYSTEM
          TR: Applicable Aircraft TOs
3.11.1.   System operation                                                                                           A        -         B       -         -
3.11.2.   Remove/install tank components                                                                             2b       -         -       -         -
3.11.3.   Perform Operational checkout            *                                                                  -        -         -       -         -
3.11.4.   Troubleshoot System                               *                                                        -        -         -       -         -
3.11.5.   Inspect tank components                           *                                                        -        -         -       -         -
3.12.     EXTERNAL FUEL TANK
          MAINTENANCE
          TR: Applicable Equipment TOs
3.12.1.   Issue/receive external tanks                                                                               -        -         -       -         -
3.12.2.   Perform certification checks            *                                                                  -        -         -       -         -
3.12.3.   Troubleshoot external fuel tanks                  *                                                        -        -         -       -         -
3.12.4.   Remove/install components                                                                                  -        -         -       -         -
3.12.5.   Inspect components                                *                                                        -        -         -       -         -
3.12.6.   Pressure check removed external
                                                                                                                     -        -         -       -         -
          fuel tanks




                                                                         38
GENERAL AIRCRAFT REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                      ATTACHMENT 3
This page intentionally left blank.
                                                             A-10 Requirements
                                                                                                                 CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                     2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (see note)
                                                      A       B        A        B       C        D           E       A             B                C
                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
     1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                  Level

                                                                      Tng      Tng Trainee    Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)            (2)
                                                    5 Level 7 Level
                                                                      Start   Comp Initials   Initials      Initials Course Course CDC Course         CDC
NOTE 1: This STS is mandatory if trainee is required to maintain the A-10 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.
4.            A-10
4.1.          A-10 AIRCRAFT GENERAL
              TR: 1A-10( )-2-1-1, 1A-10( )-2-
              28JG
4.1.1.        Perform Aircraft Safe for               *
                                                                                                                      -        -       -       -        -
              Maintenance
4.1.2.        Safety Precautions                                                                                      -        -       -       -        -
4.1.3.        Apply/Remove External Power             *                                                               -        -       -       -        -
4.1.4.        Remove, Install, and Inspect Fuel
                                                                                                                      -        -       -       -        -
              Tubing and Couplings
4.2.          ENGINE FEED AND
              CROSSFEED SYSTEMS
              TR: Aircraft TO 1A-10( )-2-1-1,
              1A-10( )-2-28MS-1, 1A-10( )-2-
              28JG-1 and 1A-10( )-2-28TS-1
4.2.1.        System Operation                                                                                        -        -       -       -        -
4.2.2.        Perform Operational Check
4.2.2.1.      Boost Pumps                             *                                                               -        -       -       -        -
4.2.2.2.      Direct Current Pump                     *                                                               -        -       -       -        -
4.2.2.3.      Crossfeed Valves                        *                                                               -        -       -       -        -
4.2.2.4.      Engine Shutoff Valves                   *                                                               -        -       -       -        -
4.2.2.5.      Tank Gate Valve                         *                                                               -        -       -       -        -
4.2.2.6.      Dual Float Check Valve                  *                                                               -        -       -       -        -
4.2.3.        Troubleshoot System
4.2.3.1.      Main Tank Boost Pump                             *                                                      -        -       -       -        -
4.2.3.2.      Wing Boost Pump                                  *                                                      -        -       -       -        -
4.2.3.3.      Direct Current Pump                              *                                                      -        -       -       -        -
4.2.3.4.      Engine Feed/Boost Pump                           *
                                                                                                                      -        -       -       -        -
              Pressure Lights
4.2.3.5.      Crossfeed Valves                                 *                                                      -        -       -       -        -
4.2.3.6.      Engine Shutoff Valves                            *                                                      -        -       -       -        -
4.2.3.7.      Tank Gate Valve                                  *                                                      -        -       -       -        -
4.2.4.        Remove/Install Components
4.2.4.1.      Boost Pumps                                                                                             -        -       -       -        -

                                                                           40
A-10 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                      ATTACHMENT 4
                                                          A-10 Requirements
                                                                                                              CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (see note)
                                                   A       B        A        B       C        D           E       A             B                C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                  Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng Trainee    Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)            (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp Initials   Initials      Initials Course Course CDC Course         CDC
4.2.4.2.   Direct Current Pump                                                                                     -        -       -       -        -
4.2.4.3.   Crossfeed Valves                                                                                        -        -       -       -        -
4.2.4.4.   Crossfeed/ Engine Feed Valve
                                                                                                                   -        -       -       -        -
           Actuator
4.2.4.5.   Engine Shutoff Valves                                                                                   -        -       -       -        -
4.2.4.6.   Tank Gate Valve                                                                                         -        -       -       -        -
4.2.4.7.   Dual Float Check Valve                                                                                  -        -       -       -        -
4.2.4.8.   Left/Right Pressure Switch                                                                              -        -       -       -        -
4.2.5.     Inspect Components                               *                                                      -        -       -       -        -
4.3.       GROUND TRANSFER SYSTEM
           TR: Aircraft TO 1A-10( )-2-1-1,
           1A-10( )-2-28MS-1, 1A-10( )-2-
           28JG
           and 1A-10( )-2-28TS-1
4.3.1.     System Operation                                                                                        -        -       -       -        -
4.3.2.     Perform Operational Check
4.3.2.1.   Transfer Between Main Tanks             *                                                               -        -       -       -        -
           and Wing Tanks
4.3.2.2.   Transfer External Tanks                 *                                                               -        -       -       -        -
4.3.3.     Perform External Fuel Tank
           Checkout using Pre-installation                                                                         -        -       -       -        -
           Tester
4.4.       GROUND REFUELING AND
           DEFUELING SYSTEMS
           TR: Aircraft TO 1A-10( )-2-1-1,
           1A-10( )-2-28MS-1, 1A-10( )-2-
           28JG and 1A-10( )-2-28TS-1
4.4.1.     System Operation                                                                                        -        -       -       -        -
4.4.2.     Perform Operational Check
4.4.2.1.   Main Tank Refuel System                 *                                                               -        -       -       -        -
4.4.2.2.   Internal Wing Tank Refuel               *
                                                                                                                   -        -       -       -        -
           System
4.4.2.3.   External Tank Refuel System             *                                                               -        -       -       -        -
4.4.2.4.   Defuel System                           *                                                               -        -       -       -        -
4.4.3.     Troubleshoot System
4.4.3.1.   Main Tank Refuel System                          *                                                      -        -       -       -        -
4.4.3.2.   Internal Wing Tank Refuel                        *
                                                                                                                   -        -       -       -        -
           System

                                                                        41
A-10 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                   ATTACHMENT 4
                                                          A-10 Requirements
                                                                                                              CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (see note)
                                                   A       B        A        B       C        D           E       A             B                C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                  Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng Trainee    Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)            (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp Initials   Initials      Initials Course Course CDC Course         CDC
4.4.3.3.   External Tank Refuel System                     *                                                       -        -       -       -        -
4.4.3.4.   Defuel System                                   *                                                       -        -       -       -        -
4.4.4.     Remove/Install Components
4.4.4.1.   Main Tank Refuel Shutoff Valve                                                                          -        -       -       -        -
4.4.4.2.   Main Tank Refuel Pilot Valve                                                                            -        -       -       -        -
4.4.4.3.   Internal Wing Tank Refuel
                                                                                                                   -        -       -       -        -
           Shutoff Valve
4.4.4.4.   Internal Wing Tank Pilot Valve                                                                          -        -       -       -        -
4.4.4.5.   External Fuel Tank Shutoff Valve                                                                        -        -       -       -        -
4.4.4.6.   Defuel Shutoff Valve                                                                                    -        -       -       -        -
4.4.4.7.   Single Point Refueling Adapter
                                                                                                                   -        -       -       -        -
           and Cap
4.4.5.     Inspect Components                              *                                                       -        -       -       -        -
4.5.       UNIVERSAL AERIAL
           REFUELING RECEPTACLE
           SLIPWAY INSTALLATION
           (UARRSI) TR: 1A-10( )-2-1-1,
           1A-10( )-2-28MS-1,
           1A-10( )-2-28TS-1 and
           1A-10( )-2-28JG-3
4.5.1.     System Operation                                                                                        -        -       -       -        -
4.5.2.     Perform UARRSI Operational              *
                                                                                                                   -        -       -       -        -
           Check
4.5.3.     UARRSI Manifold/Line Purge              *
                                                                                                                   -        -       -       -        -
           Check
4.5.4.     Troubleshoot System
4.5.4.1.   UARRSI System                                   *                                                       -        -       -       -        -
4.5.4.2.   Manifold Purge                                  *                                                       -        -       -       -        -
4.5.5.     Remove/Install Components
4.5.5.1.   UARRSI Assembly                                                                                         -        -       -       -        -
4.5.5.2.   Door/Skid Plate Assembly                                                                                -        -       -       -        -
4.5.5.3.   Line Purge Solenoid Valve                                                                               -        -       -       -        -
4.5.6.     Inspect Components                              *                                                       -        -       -       -        -




                                                                        42
A-10 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                   ATTACHMENT 4
                                                          A-10 Requirements
                                                                                                              CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (see note)
                                                   A       B        A        B       C        D           E       A             B                C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                  Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng Trainee    Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)            (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp Initials   Initials      Initials Course Course CDC Course         CDC
4.6.       PRESSURIZATION/VENT
           SYSTEM
           TR: Aircraft TO 1A-10( )-2-1-1,
           1A-10( )-2-28JG, 1A-10( )–2-
           28TS-1, and 1A-10( )-2-28MS-1
4.6.1.     System Operation                                                                                        -        -       -       -        -
4.6.2.     Perform Moisture Removal                *
                                                                                                                   -        -       -       -        -
           Checkout
4.6.3.     Troubleshoot System
4.6.3.1.   External Pressurization                         *                                                       -        -       -       -        -
4.6.3.2.   Venting Fuel Overboard                          *                                                       -        -       -       -        -
4.6.4.     Remove/Install Components
4.6.4.1.   External Vent/Pressurization
                                                                                                                   -        -       -       -        -
           Valves
4.6.4.2.   External Vent/Pressurization
                                                                                                                   -        -       -       -        -
           Check Valves
4.6.4.3.   Air Pressure Regulator                                                                                  -        -       -       -        -
4.6.4.4.   Wing Float Vent Valves (Dive)                                                                           -        -       -       -        -
4.6.4.5.   Vent Tank Assembly                                                                                      -        -       -       -        -
4.6.5.     Inspect Components                              *                                                       -        -       -       -        -
4.7.       FUEL QUANTITY
           INDICATING SYSTEM
           TR: Aircraft TO 1A-10( )-2-1-1,
           1A-10( )-2-28JG-5 and
           1A-10( )-2-28MS-1
4.7.1.     System Operation                                                                                        -        -       -       -        -
4.7.2.     Remove/Install Components                                                                               -        -       -       -        -
4.7.2.1.   Main Tank Probes                                                                                        -        -       -       -        -
4.7.2.2.   Internal Wing Tank Probes                                                                               -        -       -       -        -
4.7.2.3.   Internal Wing Tank Wiring                                                                               -        -       -       -        -
4.7.3.     Inspect Components                              *                                                       -        -       -       -        -
4.8.       EXTERNAL FUEL TANK
           MAINTENANCE
           TR: Tank TO 1A-10( )-2-28JG-4,
           6J14-2-29-2, 6J14-2-37-3, and
           1A-10( )-2-28TS-1
4.8.1.     Perform Certification Checks                                                                            -        -       -       -        -
4.8.2.     Troubleshoot External Fuel Tanks                                                                        -        -       -       -        -

                                                                        43
A-10 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                   ATTACHMENT 4
                                                          A-10 Requirements
                                                                                                              CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (see note)
                                                   A       B        A        B       C        D           E       A             B                C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                  Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng Trainee    Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)            (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp Initials   Initials      Initials Course Course CDC Course         CDC
4.8.3.     Remove/Install Components                                                                               -        -       -       -        -
4.8.4.     Inspect Tank and Components                     *                                                       -        -       -       -        -
4.8.5.     Pressure Check Removed
                                                                                                                   -        -       -       -        -
           External Fuel Tanks
4.9.       INTEGRAL WING TANKS
           TR: TO 1A-10( )-3-1, 1A-10( )-
           2-1,  1A-10( )-4-51, and 1-1-3
4.9.1.     Perform Injection Repair of Wing
                                                                                                                   -        -       -       -        -
           Tanks
4.9.2.     Perform Hollow Bolt Injection                                                                           -        -       -       -        -
4.9.3.     Remove/Install Tank Drains                                                                              -        -       -       -        -




                                                                        44
A-10 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                   ATTACHMENT 4
This page intentionally left blank.




               45
                                                           B-1B Requirements
                                                                                                                      CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks                 3. Certification For OJT                Training/Information Provided (See note)
                                                  A       B        A           B       C          D          E           A             B               C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                       Level

                                                                  Tng       Tng Trainee      Trainer      Certifier     (1)       (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start    Comp Initials     Initials      Initials    Course    Course CDC Course CDC
NOTE 1: This STS is mandatory if trainee is required to maintain the B-1B aircraft.
NOTE 2: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.
5.         B-1B
5.1.       B-1B AIRCRAFT GENERAL
           TR: 1B-1B-2-28GS-00-1
5.1.1.     B-1B Safety Precautions                                                                                        -        -        -       -       -
5.1.2.     Perform Aircraft Safe For              *
                                                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
           Maintenance
5.1.3      AIRCRAFT BATTERIES
           TR: 1B-1B-2-24JG-30-1
5.1.3.1.   Connect/Disconnect                     *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.1.3.2.   Perform Operational check              *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.1.4.     Apply/Remove Ground Power              *
                                                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
           and Cooling Air
5.1.5.     Remove, Inspect, and Install
           Fuel System Tubing and Fuel                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -
           Couplings
5.1.6.     PROXIMITY SWITCH
           CONTROL
           (SIM AIRBORNE)
           TR: 1B-1B-2-05JG-10-1
5.1.6.1.   Locations                                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -
5.1.6.2.   Cover/Uncover                          *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.1.6.3.   Identify guarded switches                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -
           TR: 1B-1B-2-05JG-20-1
5.1.7.     Power Control Assembly (PCA)
           TR: 1B-1B-2-24JG-50-1
5.1.7.1.   Identify operational checks                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -
5.1.7.2.   Perform operational checks                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -
5.2.       CENTRAL INTEGRATED
           TEST SYSTEM (CITS)
           TR: 1B-1B-2-28GS-00-1 and
           1B-1B-2-46GS-00-1
5.2.1.     System Operation                                                                                               -        -        -       -       -
5.2.2.     Operate CITS Panel                     *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.2.3.     Troubleshoot Using CITS                         *                                                              -        -        -       -       -
5.2.4.     Analyze CITS Data                               *                                                              -        -        -       -       -
5.2.5.     Retrieve CITS Deployable                        *
           Diagnostic System (CDDS)                                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
           Data
                                                                          46
B-1B REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT 5
                                                           B-1B Requirements
                                                                                                                      CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks                 3. Certification For OJT                Training/Information Provided (See note)
                                                  A       B        A           B       C          D          E           A             B               C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                       Level

                                                                  Tng       Tng Trainee      Trainer      Certifier     (1)       (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start    Comp Initials     Initials      Initials    Course    Course CDC Course CDC
5.3.       ELECTRICAL MULTIPLEX
           (EMUX) SYSTEM
           FAMILIARIZATION
           TR: 1B-1B-2-92GS-00-1
5.3.1.     Principles                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -
5.3.2.     Schematics                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -
5.3.3.     AND/OR Gates                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -
5.3.4.     Inverters                                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -
5.4.       ENGINE FEED SYSTEM
           TR: 1B-1B-2-28GS-00-1
           (28-23-00)
5.4.1.     System Operation                                                                                               -        -        -       -       -
5.4.2.     Perform Operational Check
5.4.2.1.   Fuel Boost Pumps                       *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.4.2.2.   Fuel Crossfeed Valve                   *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.4.2.3.   Fuel Isolation Valve                   *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.4.2.4.   Cooling Loop Isolation Valve           *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.4.2.5.   Firewall Shutoff Valve                 *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.4.2.6.   APU Shutoff Valve                      *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.4.2.7.   Cooling Loop Bypass Valve              *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.4.2.8.   Air Induction Valve                                                                                            -        -        -       -       -
5.4.3.     Troubleshoot System                             *                                                              -        -        -       -       -
5.4.4.     Remove/Install Components
5.4.4.1.   Airframe Mass Fuel Flow
                                                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
           Meters
5.4.4.2.   Fuel Boost Pumps                       *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.4.4.3.   Fuel Crossfeed Valve
                                                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
           Body/Actuator
5.4.4.4.   Fuel Isolation Valve
                                                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
           Body/Actuator
5.4.4.5.   Cooling Loop Isolation Valve
                                                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
           Body/Actuator
5.4.4.6.   Firewall Shutoff Valve
                                                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
           Body/Actuator
5.4.4.7.   APU Shutoff Valve
                                                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
           Body/Actuator


                                                                          47
B-1B REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT 5
                                                           B-1B Requirements
                                                                                                                      CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks                 3. Certification For OJT                Training/Information Provided (See note)
                                                  A       B        A           B       C          D          E           A             B               C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                       Level

                                                                  Tng       Tng Trainee      Trainer      Certifier     (1)       (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start    Comp Initials     Initials      Initials    Course    Course CDC Course CDC
5.4.4.8.    Cooling Loop Bypass Valve
                                                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
            Body/Actuator
5.4.4.9.    Air Induction Valve
                                                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
            Body/Actuator
5.4.4.10.   Flapper Check Valves                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
5.4.5.      Inspect Components                             *                                                              -        -        -       -       -
5.5.        FUEL JETTISON/DUMP
            SYSTEM
            TR: 1B-1B-2-28GS-00-1
            (28-30-00)
5.5.1.      System Operation                                                                                              -        -        -       -       -
5.5.2.      Perform Operational Check             *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.5.3.      Troubleshoot System                            *                                                              -        -        -       -       -
5.5.4.      Remove/Install Dump Valve
                                                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
            Body/Actuator
5.5.5.      Inspect Components                             *                                                              -        -        -       -       -
5.6.        TRANSFER SYSTEM
            TR: 1B-1B-2-28GS-00-1
            (28-21-00)
5.6.1.      System Operation                                                                                              -        -        -       -       -
5.6.2.      Perform Operational Check
5.6.2.1.    Transfer Pump                         *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.6.2.2.    Scavenge Pump                         *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.6.2.3.    Discrete Fuel Flow Sensor             *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.6.2.4.    Ballast Tank Isolation Valve          *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.6.3.      Troubleshoot System                            *                                                              -        -        -       -       -
5.6.4.      Remove/Install Components
5.6.4.1.    Transfer Pump                         *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.6.4.2.    Scavenge Pump                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -
5.6.4.3.    Discrete Fuel Flow Sensor                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -
5.6.4.4.    Ballast Tank Isolation Valve
                                                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
            Body/Actuator
5.6.4.5.    Transfer/Vent Pivot Tube                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -
5.6.5.      Rebuild Transfer/Vent Pivot
                                                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
            Tube
5.6.6.      Inspect Components                             *                                                              -        -        -       -       -


                                                                          48
B-1B REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT 5
                                                           B-1B Requirements
                                                                                                                      CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks                 3. Certification For OJT                Training/Information Provided (See note)
                                                  A       B        A           B       C          D          E           A             B               C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                       Level

                                                                  Tng       Tng Trainee      Trainer      Certifier     (1)       (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start    Comp Initials     Initials      Initials    Course    Course CDC Course CDC
5.7.       GROUND
           REFUELING/DEFUELING
           SYSTEMS
           TR: 1B-1B-2-28GS-00-1
           (28-22-00)
5.7.1.     System Operation                                                                                               -        -        -       -       -
5.7.2.     Perform Operational Check
5.7.2.1.   Pilot Valve                            *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.7.2.2.   Pilot Valve Solenoids                  *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.7.2.3.   Ground Refuel/Defuel Valve             *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.7.2.4.   Fuel Level Control Valve               *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.7.3.     Troubleshoot System                             *                                                              -        -        -       -       -
5.7.4.     Remove/Install Components
5.7.4.1.   Pilot Valve                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -
5.7.4.2.   Pilot Valve Solenoids                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
5.7.4.3.   Ground Refuel/Defuel Valve
                                                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
           Body/Actuator
5.7.4.4.   Fuel Level Control Valve                                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.7.4.5.   Single Point Refueling
                                                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
           Receptacle
5.7.5.     Inspect Components                              *                                                              -        -        -       -       -
5.8.       AIR REFUELING (A/R)
           RECEIVER SYSTEM
           (UARRSI)
           TR: 1B-1B-2-28GS-00-1
           (28-25-00)
5.8.1.     System Operation                                                                                               -        -        -       -       -
5.8.2.     Perform Operational Check              *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.8.3.     Troubleshoot System                             *                                                              -        -        -       -       -
5.8.4.     Remove/Install Components
5.8.4.1.   Universal A/R Receptacle                                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.8.4.2    A/R Line Coupling                                                                                              -        -        -       -       -
5.8.4.3.   A/R Line Pressure Switch                                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.8.4.4.   EMP Device                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -
5.8.4.5.   A/R Signal Amplifier                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
5.8.4.6.   Reverse A/R Refuel Valve
                                                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
           Body/Actuator
                                                                          49
B-1B REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT 5
                                                           B-1B Requirements
                                                                                                                      CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks                 3. Certification For OJT                Training/Information Provided (See note)
                                                  A       B        A           B       C          D          E           A             B               C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                       Level

                                                                  Tng       Tng Trainee      Trainer      Certifier     (1)       (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start    Comp Initials     Initials      Initials    Course    Course CDC Course CDC
5.8.4.7.    Teflon and Rubber Seals                                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.8.4.8.    Receptacle Sleeve                                                                                             -        -        -       -       -
5.8.4.9.    Induction Coil                                                                                                -        -        -       -       -
5.8.5.      Inspect Components                             *                                                              -        -        -       -       -
5.8.6.      Aerial Refueling lighting power
                                                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
            supply
5.9.        PRESSURIZATION/VENT
            SYSTEM
            TR: 1B-1B-2-28GS-00-1
            (28-11-00)
5.9.1.      System Operation                                                                                              -        -        -       -       -
5.9.2.      Perform Operational Check
5.9.2.1.    Pressure Actuated Vent Valve          *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.9.2.2.    Emergency Pressure Actuated           *
                                                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
            Vent Valve
5.9.3.      Troubleshoot System                            *                                                              -        -        -       -       -
5.9.4.      Remove/Install Components
5.9.4.1.    Pressure Actuated Vent Valve                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -
5.9.4.2.    Emergency Pressure Actuated
                                                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
            Vent Valve
5.9.4.3.    Climb Pilot Valve                                                                                             -        -        -       -       -
5.9.4.4.    Dive Pilot Valve                                                                                              -        -        -       -       -
5.9.5.      Inspect Components                             *                                                              -        -        -       -       -
5.10.       FUEL COOLING LOOP
            SYSTEM
            TR: 1B-1B-2-28GS-00-1
            (28-24-00)
5.10.1.     System Operation                                                                                              -        -        -       -       -
5.10.2.     Perform Operational Check
5.10.2.1.   Cooling Loop Pumps                    *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.10.2.2.   Cooling Loop Crossover Valve          *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.10.2.3.   Cooling Loop Return Valve             *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
5.10.3.     Troubleshoot System                            *                                                              -        -        -       -       -
5.10.4.     Remove/Install Components
5.10.4.1.   Cooling Loop Pumps                    *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -



                                                                          50
B-1B REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT 5
                                                           B-1B Requirements
                                                                                                                      CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks                 3. Certification For OJT                Training/Information Provided (See note)
                                                  A       B        A           B       C          D          E           A             B               C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                       Level

                                                                  Tng       Tng Trainee      Trainer      Certifier     (1)       (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start    Comp Initials     Initials      Initials    Course    Course CDC Course CDC
5.10.4.2.   Cooling Loop Crossover Valve
                                                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
            Body/Actuator
5.10.4.3.   Cooling Loop Return Valve
                                                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
            Body/Actuator
5.10.4.4.   Cooling Loop Filter                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
5.10.4.5.   Heat Exchangers                                                                                               -        -        -       -       -
5.10.4.6.   Flapper Check Valves                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
5.10.5.     Inspect Components                             *                                                              -        -        -       -       -
5.11.       FUEL CENTER OF GRAVITY
            MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
            (FCGMS)
            TR: 1B-1B-2-28GS-00-1
            (28-51-00)
5.11.1.     System Operation                                                                                              -        -        -       -       -
5.11.2.     Remove/Install Components
5.11.2.1.   Fuel Probes                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -
5.11.2.2.   Wire Harnesses                                                                                                -        -        -       -       -
5.11.3.     Inspect Components                             *                                                              -        -        -       -       -
5.12.       WEAPONS BAY FUEL
            TANKS
            TR: 6J14-7-6-2
5.12.1.     System Operation                                                                                              -        -        -       -       -
5.12.2.     Perform Operational Check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -
5.12.3.     Troubleshoot System                            *                                                              -        -        -       -       -
5.12.4.     Remove/Install Components
5.12.4.1.   Vent Stand Pipe                                                                                               -        -        -       -       -
5.12.4.2.   Pumps                                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
5.12.4.3.   Fuel Quantity Probes                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
5.12.4.4.   Pilot Valve                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -
5.12.4.5.   Fuel Level Control Valve                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -
5.12.5.     Overhaul Vent Stand Pipe                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -
5.12.6.     Inspect Components                             *                                                              -        -        -       -       -
5.13.       INTEGRAL FUEL TANK
            REPAIR
            TR: 1-1-3 and 1B-1B-2-28GS-
            00-1


                                                                          51
B-1B REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT 5
                                                           B-1B Requirements
                                                                                                                      CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks                 3. Certification For OJT                Training/Information Provided (See note)
                                                  A       B        A           B       C          D          E           A             B               C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                       Level

                                                                  Tng       Tng Trainee      Trainer      Certifier     (1)       (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start    Comp Initials     Initials      Initials    Course    Course CDC Course CDC
5.13.1.    Perform Injection Repair of
                                                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
           Wing Tanks
5.13.2.    Perform Hollow Bolt Injection                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -
5.13.3.    Remove/Install Tank Drains                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -
5.13.4.    Use Technical Support Center           *                                                                       -        -        -       -       -
           (TSC) to Document Fuel Leaks




                                                                          52
B-1B REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT 5
This page intentionally left blank.
                                                                  B-2 Requirements
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                     2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                      A       B        A         B       C         D          E        A             B               C
                                                                                                                     3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
     1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                     Level

                                                                      Tng        Tng Trainee    Trainer     Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)            (2)
                                                    5 Level 7 Level
                                                                      Start     Comp Initials   Initials     Initials Course Course CDC Course         CDC
NOTE 1: This STS is mandatory if trainee is required to maintain the B-2 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.
6.             B-2
6.1.           B-2 AIRCRAFT GENERAL
6.1.1.         Safety Precautions
                                                                                                                       -         -      -       -         -
               TR: 1B-2A-2-01JG-00-1
6.1.2.         Remove/Inspect/Install Fuel
               Tubing and Couplings
                                                                                                                       -         -      -       -         -
               TR: 1B-2A-2-28JG-00-1, 28-00-
               00
6.1.3.         Hardness Critical Procedures           *
               (HCP)                                                                                                   -         -      -       -         -
               TR: 1B-2A-2-01JG-10-1
6.1.4.         Low Observable Critical
               Procedures                                                                                              -         -      -       -         -
               TR: 1B-2A-2-01JG-60-2
6.1.5.         Electrostatic Discharge
               Procedures (ESD)                                                                                        -         -      -       -         -
               TR: 1B-2A-2-01JG-00-1
6.1.6.         Operate Intercommunication
               System (ICS)                                                                                            -         -      -       -         -
               TR: 1B-2A-2-05JG-10-1
6.1.7.         Apply/Remove Aircraft Power            *
                                                                                                                       -         -      -       -         -
               TR: 1B-2A-2-05JG-10-1
6.1.8          Apply/Remove Cooling Air               *
                                                                                                                       -         -      -       -         -
               TR: 1B-2A-2-05JG-10-1
6.1.9.         Operate On Board Maintenance
               Printer (OBMP)                                                                                          -         -      -       -         -
               TR: 1B-2A-2-28GS-00-1
6.1.10.        Use OBTS Processor (OGP)
               Reports for Fault Isolation of
                                                                                                                       -         -      -       -         -
               System Malfunction
               TR: 1B-2A-2-28GS-00-1
6.1.11.        Perform FMMS Ground
               Readiness Test (IBITS)
                                                                                                                       -         -      -       -         -
               TR: 1B-2A-2-40JG-10-1,40-10-
               28-1
6.1.12.        Perform Aircraft Safe for              *
               Maintenance                                                                                             -         -      -       -         -
               TR: 1B-2A-05JG-20-1, 05-21-01



                                                                           54
B-2 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                      ATTACHMENT 6
                                                                B-2 Requirements
                                                                                                                CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A         B       C         D          E        A             B               C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                  Level

                                                                   Tng        Tng Trainee    Trainer     Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)            (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start     Comp Initials   Initials     Initials Course Course CDC Course         CDC
6.2.        ENGINE FEED AND
            CROSSFEED SYSTEMS
            TR: 1B-2A-2-28JG-20-2,3,4
6.2.1.      System Operation                                                                                        -         -      -       -         -
6.2.2.      Perform Operational Check
            TR: 1B-2A-2-28JG-20-2
6.2.2.1.    Engine Fuel Pumps                      *                                                                -         -      -       -         -
6.2.2.2.    Transfer Pumps                         *                                                                -         -      -       -         -
6.2.2.3.    Override Pumps                         *                                                                -         -      -       -         -
6.2.3.      Perform Gravity Drain Checkout
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-24-101
6.2.4.      Troubleshoot System                             *                                                       -         -      -       -         -
6.2.5.      Remove/Install Components
            TR: 1B-2A-2-28JG-20-2,3,4
6.2.5.1.    Pumps/Motors/Impellers
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-24-101
6.2.5.2.    Valve Actuator
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-24-115
6.2.5.3.    Pressure switch
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-24-111
6.2.5.4.    Boost Pump Housing
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-24-129
6.2.6.      Inspect Components                              *                                                       -         -      -       -         -
6.3.        FUEL JETTISON/DUMP
            SYSTEM
            TR: 1B-2A-28JG-30-1
6.3.1.      System Operation                                                                                        -         -      -       -         -
6.3.2.      Perform Operational Check              *
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-30-1
6.3.3.      Troubleshoot System                             *                                                       -         -      -       -         -
6.3.4.      Remove/Install Components
            TR: 1B-2A-2-28JG-20-2,3,4
6.3.4.1.    Dump Valve Body
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-31-105
6.3.4.2.    Dump Valve Actuator
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-31-101
6.3.4.3.    Adapter Shaft
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-31-103


                                                                        55
B-2 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                   ATTACHMENT 6
                                                                B-2 Requirements
                                                                                                                CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A         B       C         D          E        A             B               C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                  Level

                                                                   Tng        Tng Trainee    Trainer     Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)            (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start     Comp Initials   Initials     Initials Course Course CDC Course         CDC
6.3.5.      Inspect Components                              *                                                       -         -      -       -         -
6.4.        TRANSFER SYSTEM
            TR: 1B-2-28JG-20-2,3,4
6.4.1.      System Operation                                                                                        -         -      -       -         -
6.4.2.      Perform Operational Check              *
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-00-15
6.4.3.      Troubleshoot System                             *                                                       -         -      -       -         -
6.4.4.      Remove/Install Components
            TR: 1B-2A-2-28JG-20-2,3,4
6.4.4.1.    Actuator
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-24-125
6.4.4.2.    Aux/Override Pump Housing
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-24-133
6.4.4.3.    Main Tank Transfer Pump
            Housing                                                                                                 -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-24-145
6.4.4.4.    Crossfeed Valve Body
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-24-145
6.4.4.5.    Transfer/Override
            Pump/Motor/Impeller                                                                                     -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-24-111
6.4.4.6.    Pump Pressure Switch
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-24-111
6.4.4.7.    Valve Body
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-24-121
6.4.4.8.    Valve Drive Shaft
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-24-107
6.4.4.9.    Siphon Feed Check Valve
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-24-107
6.4.4.10.   Crossfeed Actuator
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-24-143
6.4.5.      Inspect Components                              *                                                       -         -      -       -         -
6.5.        GROUND REFUELING AND
            DEFUELING SYSTEMS
            TR: 1B-2A-2-28JG-20-1,2
6.5.1.      System Operation                                                                                        -         -      -       -         -
6.5.2.      Perform Operational Check              *
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-21-01


                                                                        56
B-2 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                   ATTACHMENT 6
                                                                B-2 Requirements
                                                                                                                CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A         B       C         D          E        A             B               C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                  Level

                                                                   Tng        Tng Trainee    Trainer     Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)            (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start     Comp Initials   Initials     Initials Course Course CDC Course         CDC
6.5.3.      Troubleshoot System                             *                                                       -         -      -       -         -
6.5.4.      Remove/Install Components
            TR: 1B-2A-2-28JG-20-1,2
6.5.4.1.    Fuel Level Control Actuator
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-21-103
6.5.4.2.    Precheck Solenoid Valve
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-21-141
6.5.4.3.    Valve Body
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-21-135
6.5.4.4.    Ground Refuel Receptacle
            Assemblies                                                                                              -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-21-115
6.5.4.5.    Pilot Valve
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-21-107
6.5.4.6.    Actuator
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-21-121
6.5.4.7.    Secondary Level Shutoff Valve
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-21-109
6.5.5.      Inspect Components                              *                                                       -         -      -       -         -
6.6.        AIR REFUELING SYSTEM
            TR: 1B-2A-2-28JG-20-5,6
6.6.1.      System Operation                                                                                        -         -      -       -         -
6.6.2.      Perform Operational Check              *
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-27-03
6.6.3.      Troubleshoot System                             *                                                       -         -      -       -         -
6.6.4.      Remove/Install Components
            TR: 1B-2A-2-28JG-20-5,6
6.6.4.1.    Limit Switches
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-27-137
6.6.4.2.    Check Valves
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-27-103
6.6.4.3.    Canopy
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-27-101
6.6.4.4.    Receptacle
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-27-101
6.6.4.5.    Pressure Disconnect Switch
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-27-113
6.6.4.6.    Poppet/Seal/Sleeve
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-27-133
                                                                        57
B-2 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                   ATTACHMENT 6
                                                                B-2 Requirements
                                                                                                                CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A         B       C         D          E        A             B               C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                  Level

                                                                   Tng        Tng Trainee    Trainer     Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)            (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start     Comp Initials   Initials     Initials Course Course CDC Course         CDC
6.6.4.7.    Induction Coil
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-27-135
6.6.4.8.    EMP Filter
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-27-139
6.6.4.9.    Signal Amplifier
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-27-141
6.6.4.10.   Slipway Assembly
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-27-101
6.6.5.      Inspect Components                              *                                                       -         -      -       -         -
6.7.        MANIFOLD
            SCAVENGE/DRAIN SYSTEM
            TR: 1B-2A-2-28JG-20-1,6,7
6.7.1.      System Operation                                                                                        -         -      -       -         -
6.7.2.      Perform Operational Check              *                                                                -         -      -       -         -
6.7.3.      Troubleshoot System                            *                                                        -         -      -       -         -
6.7.4.      Remove/Install Flight Scavenge
            Jet Pump                                                                                                -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-00-00
6.7.5.      Inspect Components                              *                                                       -         -      -       -         -
6.8.        TANK SCAVENGE SYSTEM
            TR: 1B-2A-2-28JG-20-7
6.8.1.      System Operation                                                                                        -         -      -       -         -
6.8.2.      Perform Operational Check              *
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-20-6
6.8.3.      Troubleshoot System                            *                                                        -         -      -       -         -
6.8.4.      Remove/Install Components
            TR: 1B-2A-2-28JG-20-6,7
6.8.4.1.    Scavenge Pump
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-28-101
6.8.4.2.    Selector Valves
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-28-105/107
6.8.4.3.    Surge Tank Level Switch
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-28-111
6.8.4.4.    Scavenge Pump Housing
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-28-113
6.8.4.5.    Tank Scavenge Jet Pump
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-00-00
6.8.5.      Inspect Components                              *                                                       -         -      -       -         -

                                                                        58
B-2 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                   ATTACHMENT 6
                                                                B-2 Requirements
                                                                                                                CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A         B       C         D          E        A             B               C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                  Level

                                                                   Tng        Tng Trainee    Trainer     Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)            (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start     Comp Initials   Initials     Initials Course Course CDC Course         CDC
6.9.        VENT SYSTEM
            TR: 1B-2A-2-28JG-40-1, and -2
6.9.1.      System Operation                                                                                        -         -      -       -         -
6.9.2.      Perform Operational Check              *                                                                -         -      -       -         -
6.9.3.      Troubleshoot System                            *                                                        -         -      -       -         -
6.9.4.      Remove/Install Components
            TR: 1B-2A-2-28JG-10-1
6.9.4.1.    Vent Drain Valve
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-00-00
6.9.4.2.    Float Valve
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-00-00
6.9.4.3.    Gravity Fill Port
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-11-103
6.9.4.4.    Vent/Dump Outlet
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-11-105
6.9.4.5.    Vent and Control Valve
            Assembly                                                                                                -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-11-101
6.9.4.6.    Vent Crossfeed Actuator
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-15-107
6.9.4.7.    ASC Tank Pressure Switch
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-15-109
6.9.4.8.    Vent Crossfeed Valve Body
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-15-113
6.9.5.      Inspect Components                              *                                                       -         -      -       -         -
6.10.       FUEL QUANTITY
            INDICATING SYSTEM
            TR: 1B-2A-2-28JG-40-1,2
6.10.1.     System Operation
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-40-01
6.10.2.     Remove/Install Tank
            Components
            TR: IB-2A-28JG40-1/2
6.10.2.1.   Segmented Fuel Quantity Sensor
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-42-113
6.10.2.2.   Main Tank Fuel Level Switch
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-42-103
6.10.2.3.   Compensator
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-42-107

                                                                        59
B-2 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                   ATTACHMENT 6
                                                                B-2 Requirements
                                                                                                                CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A         B       C         D          E        A             B               C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                  Level

                                                                   Tng        Tng Trainee    Trainer     Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)            (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start     Comp Initials   Initials     Initials Course Course CDC Course         CDC
6.10.2.4.   Fuel Quantity Sensor
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-42-109
6.10.3.     Inspect Components                              *                                                       -         -      -       -         -
6.11.       TEMPERATURE CONTROL
            FUEL MIXING SYSTEM
            TR: 1B-2A-28JG-20-4/5,
            28JG-40-1, 29JG-10-1, and
            83JG-50-1
6.11.1.     System Operation
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 1B-2A-2-28GS-00-1
6.11.2.     Perform Operational Check
            TR: 1B-2A-2-28JG-20-4, 28-
            26-01, and 28-42-119-1
6.11.2.1.   Cooling Loop                            *                                                               -         -      -       -         -
6.11.2.2.   3-Way Cooling Valve                     *                                                               -         -      -       -         -
6.11.2.3.   Temperature Control Valve               *                                                               -         -      -       -         -
6.11.2.4.   Mix Control Valve                       *                                                               -         -      -       -         -
6.11.2.5.   AMAD differential pressure              *
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            transducer
6.11.3.     Troubleshoot System                            *                                                        -         -      -       -         -
6.11.4.     Remove/Install Components
            TR: 1B-2A-2-28JG-4/5,
            83JG-50-1, 29JG-10-1, and
            28JG-40-2
6.11.4.1.   Cooling Valve Actuator
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-26-101
6.11.4.2.   Temp/Mix Control Valve
            Actuator                                                                                                -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-26-103
6.11.4.3.   Ambient Pressure Transducer
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-20-00
6.11.4.4.   AMAD Differential Pressure
            Transducer                                                                                              -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-42-119
6.11.4.5.   Tank Temperature Sensor
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-42-117
6.11.4.6.   Manifold Temperature Sensor
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-42-117
6.11.4.7.   Heat Exchanger Check-Valve
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-26-105


                                                                        60
B-2 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                   ATTACHMENT 6
                                                                B-2 Requirements
                                                                                                                CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A         B       C         D          E        A             B               C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                  Level

                                                                   Tng        Tng Trainee    Trainer     Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)            (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start     Comp Initials   Initials     Initials Course Course CDC Course         CDC
6.11.4.8.   Adapter Shaft
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-26-109
6.11.4.9.   Cooling Valve Body
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 28-26-111
6.11.4.10. Hydraulic Heat Exchanger
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
           TR: 29-11-109
6.11.4.11. AMAD Oil Heat Exchanger
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
           TR: 83-51-101
6.11.4.12. HX Valve Body
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
           TR: 28-26-113
6.11.4.13. Mixing Valve Body
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
           TR: 28-26-115
6.11.4.14. Temp Control Valve Body
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
           TR: 28-26-117
6.11.5.    Inspect  Components                             *
           TR: 1B-2A-2-28JG-4/5,
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
           83JG-50-1, 29JG-10-1, and
           28JG-40-2
6.12.      FUEL TANK ENTRY
           TR: TO 1-1-3 and
           1B-2A-2-28JG-00-1
6.12.1.    Install/Remove Tank Access               *
           Door Rings TR: 1B-2A-2-28JG-                                                                             -         -      -       -         -
           00-1
6.12.2.     Install/Remove Inboard Auxiliary        *
            Tank Crawl Boards                                                                                       -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 1B-2A-2-28JG-00-1
6.13.       INTEGRAL FUEL TANK
            MAINTENANCE
            TR: TO 1-1-3 and
            1B-2A-2-28JG-00-1
6.13.1.     Perform Full Wing Pressure Test         *
                                                                                                                    -         -      -       -         -
            TR: 1B-2A-2-28JG-00-1
6.13.2.     Identify Weep Hole Locations                                                                            -         -      -       -         -
6.13.3.     Repair Copper Plating                                                                                   -         -      -       -         -
6.13.4.     Repair Kynar                            *                                                               -         -      -       -         -
6.13.5.     Inspect Kynar                                   *                                                       -         -      -       -         -




                                                                        61
B-2 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                   ATTACHMENT 6
                                                             B-52H Requirements
                                                                                                                 CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                     2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See note)
                                                      A       B        A        B      C         D           E        A             B               C
                                                                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
     1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                    Level

                                                                      Tng      Tng Trainee    Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                    5 Level 7 Level
                                                                      Start   Comp Initials   Initials      Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
NOTE 1: This STS is mandatory if trainee is required to maintain the B-52H aircraft.
NOTE 2: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.
7.             B-52H AIRCRAFT
7.1.           B-52H AIRCRAFT GENERAL
               TR: TO 1B-52H-2-5JG-1,
               1B-52H-2-5GA-1, and
               1B-52H-2-2JG-1
7.1.1.         Perform Aircraft Safe for              *
                                                                                                                      -         -       -      -        -
               Maintenance
7.1.2.         Safety Precautions                                                                                     -         -       -      -        -
7.1.3.         Apply/Remove External Power            *                                                               -         -       -      -        -
7.1.4.         Remove, Install and Inspect Fuel
                                                                                                                      -         -       -      -        -
               Tubing, Hoses, and Couplings
7.2.           ENGINE FEED AND
               AUXILIARY FEED SYSTEMS
               TR: TO 1B-52H-2-5JG-1,-2,-3,-
               4 and –5, 1B-52H-2-5GA-1,
7.2.1.         System Operation                                                                                       -         -       -      -        -
7.2.2.         Perform Fuel Feed System               *
                                                                                                                      -         -       -      -        -
               Operational Check
7.2.3.         Troubleshoot System
7.2.3.1.       Engine Feed System                              *                                                      -         -       -      -        -
7.2.3.2.       Auxiliary Feed System                           *                                                      -         -       -      -        -
7.2.3.3.       Boost Pump                                      *                                                      -         -       -      -        -
7.2.3.4.       Firewall Shutoff Valve                          *                                                      -         -       -      -        -
7.2.3.5.       Engine Crossfeed/Auxiliary                      *
                                                                                                                      -         -       -      -        -
               Tank Feed Valve
7.2.3.6.       Valves 29/29A                                   *                                                      -         -       -      -        -
7.2.4.         Remove/Install Components
7.2.4.1.       Boost Pump                             *                                                               -         -       -      -        -
7.2.4.2.       Firewall Shutoff Valve and
                                                      *                                                               -         -       -      -        -
               Actuator
7.2.4.3.       Engine Crossfeed/Auxiliary
                                                                                                                      -         -       -      -        -
               Tank Feed Valves
7.2.4.4.       Valve 29, 29A, and Actuators                                                                           -         -       -      -        -
7.2.4.5.       Fuel Flow Indicating Switch                                                                            -         -       -      -        -
7.2.4.6.       Pressure Loaded Check Valves                                                                           -         -       -      -        -



                                                                           62
B-52H REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                   ATTACHMENT 7
                                                          B-52H Requirements
                                                                                                              CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See note)
                                                   A       B        A        B      C         D           E        A             B               C
                                                                                                                 3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                 Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng Trainee    Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp Initials   Initials      Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
7.2.5.      Perform Boost Pump Wire
                                                                                                                   -         -       -      -        -
            Conduit Pressure Check
7.2.6.      Inspect Components                              *                                                      -         -       -      -        -
7.3.        REFUEL SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1B-52H-2-5-GA-1,
            1B-52H-2-5JG-5 and –6
7.3.1.      System Operation                                                                                       -         -       -      -        -
7.3.2.      Perform Operational Check
7.3.2.1.    Fuel Level Control Valve                *                                                              -         -       -      -        -
7.3.2.2.    Main Refuel Valve                       *                                                              -         -       -      -        -
7.3.2.3.    Defuel Valve                            *                                                              -         -       -      -        -
7.3.3.      Troubleshoot System                             *                                                      -         -       -      -        -
7.3.4.      Remove/Install Components
7.3.4.1.    Fuel Level Control Valve                                                                               -         -       -      -        -
7.3.4.2.    Fuel Level Control Valve
                                                                                                                   -         -       -      -        -
            Microswitch
7.3.4.3.    Defuel Valve and Actuator                                                                              -         -       -      -        -
7.3.4.4.    Pressure Switches                                                                                      -         -       -      -        -
7.3.4.5.    Check Valves                                                                                           -         -       -      -        -
7.3.4.6.    Drain Valves                                                                                           -         -       -      -        -
7.3.4.7.    Tolerance Couplings                                                                                    -         -       -      -        -
7.3.4.8.    Single Point Refueling
                                                                                                                   -         -       -      -        -
            Receptacle
7.3.5.      Inspect Components                              *                                                      -         -       -      -        -
7.4.        FUEL SCAVENGE SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1B-52H-2-5GA-1,
            1B-52H-2-5JG-6
7.4.1.      System Operation                                                                                       -         -       -      -        -
7.4.2.      Perform Operational Check
7.4.2.1.    Main Manifold Scavenge System          *                                                               -         -       -      -        -
7.4.2.2.    Cabin Manifold Scavenge                *
                                                                                                                   -         -       -      -        -
            System
7.4.3.      Troubleshoot
7.4.3.1.    Main Manifold Scavenge System                   *                                                      -         -       -      -        -
7.4.3.2.    Cabin Manifold Scavenge                         *
                                                                                                                   -         -       -      -        -
            System
                                                                        63
B-52H REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                ATTACHMENT 7
                                                          B-52H Requirements
                                                                                                              CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See note)
                                                   A       B        A        B      C         D           E        A             B               C
                                                                                                                 3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                 Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng Trainee    Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp Initials   Initials      Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
7.4.4.      Remove/Install Components
7.4.4.1.    Scavenge Pump                                                                                          -         -       -      -        -
7.4.4.2.    Float Switch                                                                                           -         -       -      -        -
7.4.4.3.    Manifold Shutoff Valve                                                                                 -         -       -      -        -
7.4.5.      Inspect Components                              *                                                      -         -       -      -        -
7.5.        TANK, CAVITY VENT, AND
            DRAIN SYSTEM,
            TR: TO 1B-52H-2-5GA-1,
            1B-52H-2-5JG-1, -6, -7,
7.5.1.      System Operation                                                                                       -         -       -      -        -
7.5.2.      Troubleshoot System                             *                                                      -         -       -      -        -
7.5.3.      Remove/Install Components
7.5.3.1.    Body Tank Drain Valve                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
7.5.3.2.    Wing Tank Drain Valve                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
7.5.3.3.    Boost Pump Drain Valve                                                                                 -         -       -      -        -
7.5.3.4.    Body Tank Float Valves                                                                                 -         -       -      -        -
7.5.3.5.    Wing Tank Float Valves                                                                                 -         -       -      -        -
7.5.3.6.    Wing Tank Vacuum Relief
                                                                                                                   -         -       -      -        -
            Valves
7.5.3.7.    Wing Tank Pressure Relief
                                                                                                                   -         -       -      -        -
            Valves
7.5.3.8.    Return Line Check Valves                                                                               -         -       -      -        -
7.5.4.      Inspect Components                              *                                                      -         -       -      -        -
7.6.        FUEL QUANTITY
            INDICATING SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1B-52H-2-5GA-1,
            1B-52H-2-5JG-10 and –11
7.6.1.      System Operation                                                                                       -         -       -      -        -
7.6.2.      Remove/Install Components
7.6.2.1.    Wing Tank Fuel Probes                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
7.6.2.2.    Body Tank Fuel Probes                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
7.6.3.      Inspect Components                              *                                                      -         -       -      -        -
7.7.        BODY FUEL TANKS
            TR: TO 1B-52H-2-5GA-1,
            1B-52H-2-5JG-1 and –8 and 1-1-
            3


                                                                        64
B-52H REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                ATTACHMENT 7
                                                          B-52H Requirements
                                                                                                              CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See note)
                                                   A       B        A        B      C         D           E        A             B               C
                                                                                                                 3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                 Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng Trainee    Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp Initials   Initials      Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
7.7.1.      System Operation                                                                                       -         -       -      -        -
7.7.2.      Troubleshoot Body Tank System                   *                                                      -         -       -      -        -
7.7.3.      Remove/Install Bladder Cell                                                                            -         -       -      -        -
7.8.        INTEGRAL WING TANK AND
            EXTERNAL TANK
            MAINTENANCE
            TR: TO 1-1-3, 1B-52H-2-5JG-9
            and
            1B-52H-2-5GA-1
7.8.1.      Perform Wing Tank Vent Duct
                                                                                                                   -         -       -      -        -
            Test
7.8.1.1.    Air Test                                                                                               -         -       -      -        -
7.8.1.2.    Water Test                                                                                             -         -       -      -        -




                                                                        65
B-52H REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                ATTACHMENT 7
                                                                  C-5 Requirements
                                                                                                                  CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                     2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See note)
                                                      A       B        A        B       C         D          E       A             B               C
                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
     1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                   Level

                                                                      Tng      Tng Trainee     Trainer     Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)           (2)
                                                    5 Level 7 Level
                                                                      Start   Comp Initials    Initials     Initials Course Course CDC Course        CDC
NOTE 1: This STS is mandatory if trainee is required to maintain the C-5 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks
8.             C-5
8.1.           C-5 AIRCRAFT GENERAL
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
               (e.g., workcards, checklists, etc)
8.1.1.         Perform Inspections
                                                                                                                     -         -       -      -        -
               (HSC/ISO/Phase)
8.1.2.         Apply/Remove External
                                                      *                                                              -         -       -      -        -
               Electrical Power
8.1.3.         Remove, Install and Inspect Fuel
                                                                                                                     -         -       -      -        -
               Tubing Manifold and Couplings
8.1.4.         Operate Fuel Management Panel          *                                                              -         -       -      -        -
8.1.5.         Egress Operation
               TR: TO 1C-5A-2-2 and 1C-5M-                                                                           -         -       -      -        -
               2-2
8.1.6.         Operate Intercom System
               TR: TOs 1C-5A-2-2, 1C-5A-2-                                                                           -         -       -      -        -
               8-1, 1C-5M-2-2 and 1C-5M-2-8
8.1.7.         Perform Aircraft Safe for
                                                      *                                                              -         -       -      -        -
               Maintenance
8.1.8.         Defensive System
                                                                                                                     -         -       -      -        -
               Familiarization (Flares)
8.1.9.         Disconnect/Reconnect Main
               Aircraft Battery                                                                                      -         -       -      -        -
               TR: 1C-5M-2-7-1
8.1.10.        Disconnect/Reconnect APU
                                                                                                                     -         -       -      -        -
               Aircraft Battery (C-5M) TR:
8.1.11.        Remove/Install Aircraft Panels                                                                        -         -       -      -        -
8.2.           ENGINE FEED AND
               CROSSFEED SYSTEMS
               TR: TO 1C-5A-2-5,
               1C-5A-2-5FI-1-1,
               1C-5A-2-5FI-1-2, 6J15-10-218-
               3, 1C-5M-2-5, 1C-5M-2-5FI-1-1
               AND 1C-5M-2-5FI-1-2
8.2.1.         System Operation                                                                                      -         -       -      -        -
8.2.2.         Perform Operational Check
8.2.2.1.       Boost Pump                             *                                                              -         -       -      -        -
8.2.2.2.       Manifold Pressure                      *                                                              -         -       -      -        -
8.2.2.3.       Pylon Manual Shutoff Valve             *                                                              -         -       -      -        -
                                                                           66
C-5 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                    ATTACHMENT 8
                                                                C-5 Requirements
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See note)
                                                   A       B        A        B       C         D          E       A             B               C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng Trainee     Trainer     Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)           (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp Initials    Initials     Initials Course Course CDC Course        CDC
8.2.2.4.    Separation Valve                       *                                                              -         -       -      -        -
8.2.2.5.    Cross-Feed Valve                       *                                                              -         -       -      -        -
8.2.2.6.    Isolation Valve                        *                                                              -         -       -      -        -
8.2.2.7.    Fuel Boost Pump Check Valve            *
                                                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
            Cartridges
8.2.2.8.    Sump Low Warning System                *
                                                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
            Checkout
8.2.3.      Troubleshoot System                             *                                                     -         -       -      -        -
8.2.4.      Remove/Install Components
8.2.4.1.    Pylon Manual Shutoff Valve                                                                            -         -       -      -        -
8.2.4.2.    Separation Valve                                                                                      -         -       -      -        -
8.2.4.3.    Cross-Feed Valve                                                                                      -         -       -      -        -
8.2.4.4.    Boost Pump Elements                                                                                   -         -       -      -        -
8.2.4.5.    Boost Pump Check Valve
                                                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
            Cartridges
8.2.4.6.    Boost Pump Inlet Valve                                                                                -         -       -      -        -
8.2.4.7.    Isolation Valves                                                                                      -         -       -      -        -
8.2.5.      Inspect Components                              *                                                     -         -       -      -        -
8.3.        APU FUEL SUPPLY SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1C-5A-2-5,
            1C-5A-2-5FI-1-1, 1C-5A-1-5F1-
            1-1, 1C-5M2-5, 1C-5A-2-4FI-1-
            3, 1C-5M-2-4FI-1-3 and 6J15-
            10-218-3
8.3.1.      System Operation                                                                                      -         -       -      -        -
8.3.2.      Perform Operational Check
8.3.2.1.    Shutoff Valves (Wing)                  *                                                              -         -       -      -        -
8.3.2.2.    Fuel Shutoff Valve (main gear          *
                                                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
            pod)
8.3.3.      Troubleshoot System                             *                                                     -         -       -      -        -
8.3.4.      Remove/Install Components                                                                                                      -
8.3.4.1.    Shutoff Valve (Wing)                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
8.3.4.2.    Fuel Shutoff Valve (main gear
                                                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
            pod)
8.3.5.      Inspect Components                              *                                                     -         -       -      -        -



                                                                        67
C-5 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                 ATTACHMENT 8
                                                                C-5 Requirements
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See note)
                                                   A       B        A        B       C         D          E       A             B               C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng Trainee     Trainer     Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)           (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp Initials    Initials     Initials Course Course CDC Course        CDC
8.4.        GROUND REFUELING AND
            DEFUELING SYSTEMS
            TR: TO 1C-5A-2-5,
            1C-5A-2-5FI-1-1, 1C-5M-2-5,
            1C-5M-2-5FI-1-1, 6J10-2-9-3,
            6J15-3-104-3, and 6J15-3-140-3
8.4.1.      System Operation                                                                                      -         -       -      -        -
8.4.2.      Perform Operational Check
8.4.2.1.    Single Point Refueling                 *
                                                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
            Receptacle
8.4.2.2.    Ground Refueling Isolation             *
                                                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
            Valve
8.4.2.3.    Single Point Refueling Drain           *
                                                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
            Valve and Transfer Pump
8.4.2.4.    Fuel Level Control Valve               *                                                              -         -       -      -        -
8.4.3.      Troubleshoot System                             *                                                     -         -       -      -        -
8.4.4.      Remove/Install
8.4.4.1.    Single Point Refueling
                                                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
            Receptacle
8.4.4.2.    Ground Refueling Isolation
                                                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
            Valve
8.4.4.3.    Single Point Refueling Drain
                                                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
            Valve and Transfer Pump
8.4.4.4.    Fuel Level Control Valve                                                                              -         -       -      -        -
8.4.4.5.    Condensation Drain Valve                                                                              -         -       -      -        -
8.4.5.      Inspect Components                             *                                                      -         -       -      -        -
8.5.        AIR REFUELING
            RECEPTACLE SYSTEM
            (A/R/R)
            TR: TO 1C-5A-2-5, 1C-5A-2-
            5FI-1-1, 1C-5A-2-5FI-1-2, 1C-
            5M-2-5, and 1C-5M-2-5FI-1-2
8.5.1.      System Operation                                                                                      -         -       -      -        -
8.5.2.      Perform Operational Check
8.5.2.1.    A/R Isolation Valve                    *                                                              -         -       -      -        -
8.5.2.2.    A/R Manifold Drain System              *                                                              -         -       -      -        -
8.5.2.3.    A/R Receptacle                         *                                                              -         -       -      -        -
8.5.3.      Troubleshoot System                             *                                                     -         -       -      -        -
8.5.4.      Remove/Install
                                                                        68
C-5 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                 ATTACHMENT 8
                                                                C-5 Requirements
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See note)
                                                   A       B        A        B       C         D          E       A             B               C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng Trainee     Trainer     Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)           (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp Initials    Initials     Initials Course Course CDC Course        CDC
8.5.4.1.    A/R Receptacle Door                                                                                   -         -       -      -        -
8.5.4.2.    A/R Isolation Valve                                                                                   -         -       -      -        -
8.5.4.3.    A/R Drain Valve And Transfer
                                                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
            Pump
8.5.4.4.    A/R Receptacle Poppet And
                                                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
            Sleeve
8.5.4.5     A/R Induction Coil                                                                                    -         -       -      -        -
8.5.5.      Inspect Components                              *                                                     -         -       -      -        -
8.6.        PRESSURIZATION/VENT
            SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1C-5A-2-5, 1C-5M-2-5,
            1C-5A-2-5FI-1-1 and 1C-5M-2-
            5FI-1-1
8.6.1.      System Operation                                                                                      -         -       -      -        -
8.6.2.      Perform Operational Check
8.6.2.1.    Vent Box Float Switch                  *                                                              -         -       -      -        -
8.6.2.2.    Vent Valve                             *                                                              -         -       -      -        -
8.6.2.3.    Manifold Drain Valve                   *                                                              -         -       -      -        -
8.6.2.4.    Finned Tube Heat Exchanger             *
                                                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
            Leak Check
8.6.3.      Troubleshoot System                             *                                                     -         -       -      -        -
8.6.4.      Remove/Install Components
8.6.4.1.    Vent Box Float Switch                                                                                 -         -       -      -        -
8.6.4.2.    Vent Valve                                                                                            -         -       -      -        -
8.6.4.3.    Fuel Manifold Vent Line Check
                                                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
            Valve
8.6.4.4.    Manifold Drain Valve                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
8.6.4.5.    Finned Tube Heat Exchanger                                                                            -         -       -      -        -
8.6.5.      Inspect Components                              *                                                     -         -       -      -        -
8.7.        FUEL JETTISON SYSTEM
            TR: 1C-5A-2-5, 1C-5M-2-5,
            1C-5A-2-5FI-1-1 and 1C-5M-2-
            5FI-1-1
8.7.1.      System Operation                                                                                      -         -       -      -        -
8.7.2.      Perform Operation Check on             *
                                                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
            Fuel Jettison Valve


                                                                        69
C-5 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                 ATTACHMENT 8
                                                                C-5 Requirements
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See note)
                                                   A       B        A        B       C         D          E       A             B               C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng Trainee     Trainer     Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)           (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp Initials    Initials     Initials Course Course CDC Course        CDC
8.7.3.      Troubleshoot Fuel Jettison Valve                *
                                                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
            System
8.7.4.      Remove/Install Components
8.7.4.1.    Fuel Jettison Valve                                                                                   -         -       -      -        -
8.7.4.2.    Fuel Jettison Valve Housing                                                                           -         -       -      -        -
8.7.5.      Inspect Components                              *                                                     -         -       -      -        -
8.8.        FUEL INDICATION SYSTEM
            TR: 1C-5A-2-5, 1C-5M-2-5,
            1C-5M-2-5FI-1-1 and 1C-5A-2-
            5FI-1-1
8.8.1.      System Operation                                                                                      -         -       -      -        -
8.8.2.      Remove/Install Components
8.8.2.1.    Fuel Quantity Tank Units                                                                              -         -       -      -        -
8.8.2.2.    Fuel Quantity Harness                                                                                 -         -       -      -        -
8.8.3.      Inspect Components                              *                                                     -         -       -      -        -
8.9.        INTEGRAL WING TANK
            TR: 1C-5A-2-5, 1C-5M-2-5,
            and 1-1-3
8.9.1.      Integral Tank Construction                                                                            -         -       -      -        -
8.9.2.      Tank and Access Door/Panel
                                                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
            Sealing Methods
8.9.3.      Perform Positive Pressure Test
                                                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
            of Integral Tanks




                                                                        70
C-5 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                 ATTACHMENT 8
This page intentionally left blank.




               71
                                                                   F-35 Requirements
                                                                                                                  CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                     2. Core Tasks                 3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                      A       B        A           B        C         D       E      A             B               C
                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
     1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                   Level

                                                                      Tng       Tng Trainee        Trainer Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)           (2)
                                                    5 Level 7 Level
                                                                      Start    Comp Initials       Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course        CDC
NOTE 1: This STS is mandatory if trainee is required to maintain the F-35 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.
9.             F-35
9.1.           JOINT TECHNICAL DATA
               (JTD)
               TR: ALIS ON LINE USER'S
               GUIDE & TO 00-5-1
9.1.1.         Use Joint Data Library Usage                                                                           -        -       -      -        -
9.1.2.         Use Joint Technical Data (JTD)                                                                         -        -       -      -        -
9.2.           COMPUTERIZED
               MAINTENANCE
               MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
               (CMMS)
               TR: ALIS ON LINE USER'S
               GUIDE & TO 00-20-1
9.2.1.         ITAR Familiarization                                                                                   -        -       -      -        -
9.2.2.         Create Action Request (AR)                      *                                                      -        -       -      -        -
9.2.3.         Create Task                                                                                            -        -       -      -        -
9.2.4.         Create Fault                           *                                                               -        -       -      -        -
9.2.5.         Clear Task                                                                                             -        -       -      -        -
9.2.6.         Clear Fault                                                                                            -        -       -      -        -
9.2.7          Order Parts                                                                                            -        -       -      -        -
9.2.8.         Receive Parts                                                                                          -        -       -      -        -
9.2.9.         Consumables                                                                                            -        -       -      -        -
9.2.10.        Retrieve Supply Reports                                                                                -        -       -      -        -
9.3.           Aircraft General
               TR: JTD
9.3.1.         Position Maintenance Ladder                                                                            -        -       -      -        -
9.3.2.         Position Maintenance Stand                                                                             -        -       -      -        -
9.3.3.         Install Protective Matting                                                                             -        -       -      -        -
9.3.4.         PMA - Connect/Disconnect                                                                               -        -       -      -        -
9.3.5.         Canopy - Access/Operation
9.3.5.1.       Electrical                                                                                             -        -       -      -        -
9.3.5.2.       Manual                                                                                                 -        -       -      -        -
9.3.5.3.       Lower/Stow Boarding Ladder                                                                             -        -       -      -        -



                                                                              72
F-35 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                   ATTACHMENT 9
                                                               F-35 Requirements
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks                 3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A           B        C         D       E      A             B               C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                Level

                                                                   Tng       Tng Trainee        Trainer Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)           (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start    Comp Initials       Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course        CDC
9.3.6.      Aerospace Ground Equipment -
            Apply/Remove/Operation/Servic
            e
9.3.6.1.    External Electrical Power              *                                                               -        -       -      -        -
9.3.6.2.    Ext. Hydraulic Pressure,                                                                               -        -       -      -        -
            System A
9.3.6.3.    Ext. Hydraulic Pressure,                                                                               -        -       -      -        -
            System B
9.3.6.4.    External Cooling Air                                                                                   -        -       -      -        -
9.3.6.5.    PAO CLL                                                                                                -        -       -      -        -
9.3.6.6.    PAO HLL                                                                                                -        -       -      -        -
9.3.6.7.    External Low Pressure Air                                                                              -        -       -      -        -
9.3.7.      Aircraft Safe for Maintenance
            (SFM) Perform
9.3.7.1.    Electrical SFM                                                                                         -        -       -      -        -
9.3.7.2.    Hydraulic SFM                                                                                          -        -       -      -        -
9.3.7.3     Cockpit SFM                                                                                            -        -       -      -        -
9.3.7.4.    SFM                                                                                                    -        -       -      -        -
9.3.7.5.    Static Ground Aircraft                                                                                 -        -       -      -        -
9.3.7.6.    Safing Pins - Remove/ Install                                                                          -        -       -      -        -
9.3.7.7.    Chock Aircraft                                                                                         -        -       -      -        -
9.3.8.      Door Operation - Open/Close
9.3.8.1.    Weapons Bay Door                                                                                       -        -       -      -        -
            Hydraulically
9.3.8.2.    Weapons Bay Door                                                                                       -        -       -      -        -
            Hydraulically
9.3.8.3.    IR CM Doors                                                                                            -        -       -      -        -
9.3.8.4.    MSE                                                                                                    -        -       -      -        -
9.3.9.      Covers - Remove/Install
9.3.9.1.    Inlet/Exhaust                          *                                                               -        -       -      -        -
9.3.9.2.    Pitot System                                                                                           -        -       -      -        -
9.3.9.3.    Seat Pilot Connect                                                                                     -        -       -      -        -
9.3.9.4.    Solar                                                                                                  -        -       -      -        -
9.4.        Fuel System
            TR: JTD
9.4.1.      Perform Fault Isolation                                                                                -        -       -      -        -

                                                                           73
F-35 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                ATTACHMENT 9
                                                               F-35 Requirements
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks                 3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A           B        C         D       E      A             B               C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                Level

                                                                   Tng       Tng Trainee        Trainer Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)           (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start    Comp Initials       Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course        CDC
9.4.2.       Perform Test Functional Test                                                                          -        -       -      -        -
9.4.3.       Perform Drain Valve Leak                                                                              -        -       -      -        -
             Check
9.4.4.       Perform Tank Access Panel                                                                             -        -       -      -        -
             Leal Check
9.4.5.       Internal Storage Tanks
9.4.5.1.     Inspect                                                                                               -        -       -      -        -
9.4.5.2.     Repair                                *                                                               -        -       -      -        -
9.4.5.3.     Fuel Tank Injection (Wing)                                                                            -        -       -      -        -
9.4.5.4.     Water Drain Valves
9.4.5.4.1.   Operate                                                                                               -        -       -      -        -
9.4.5.4.2.   Remove/Install                                                                                        -        -       -      -        -
9.4.5.4.3    Inspect
9.5.         Fuel Vent System
             TR: JTD
9.5.1.       System Operation                                                                                      -        -       -      -        -
9.5.2.       Perform Operational Check
9.5.2.1.     Vent Tank Pressure Sensor                                                                             -        -       -      -        -
9.5.2.2.     Troubleshoot system                                                                                   -        -       -      -        -
9.5.3.       Remove/Install Components
9.5.3.1.     Float Valve ,Vent Line (Right                                                                         -        -       -      -        -
             Wing, Left Wing, F1, F5)
9.5.3.2.     Flame Arrestor (Vent)                                                                                 -        -       -      -        -
9.5.3.3.     Vent Valve, Climb/Dive Tank                                                                           -        -       -      -        -
             F1
9.5.3.4.     Pressure Sensor, Fuel/Vent                                                                            -        -       -      -        -
             Tank
9.5.3.5.     Check Valve, Environmental                                                                            -        -       -      -        -
             Control System Air (External
             Tank)
9.5.3.6.     Auto Drain Valve (Internal                                                                            -        -       -      -        -
             Pressure Line)
9.5.3.7.     Auto Drain Valve (External                                                                            -        -       -      -        -
             Pressure Line)
9.5.3.8.     Check Valve (Vent Line)                                                                               -        -       -      -        -
9.5.3.9.     Vent Bypass Valve                                                                                     -        -       -      -        -
9.5.3.10.    Inspect Components                                                                                    -        -       -      -        -



                                                                           74
F-35 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                ATTACHMENT 9
                                                               F-35 Requirements
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks                 3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A           B        C         D       E      A             B               C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                Level

                                                                   Tng       Tng Trainee        Trainer Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)           (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start    Comp Initials       Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course        CDC
9.6.        Fuel Distribution Misc.
            TR: JTD
9.6.1.      System Operation                                                                                       -        -       -      -        -
9.6.2.      Perform Operational Check
9.6.2.1.    Ground Refuel                                                                                          -        -       -      -        -
9.6.2.2.    Manual Operation Isolation                                                                             -        -       -      -        -
            Defuel Valve
9.6.2.3.    Refuel Valve (Pressure                                                                                 -        -       -      -        -
            Operated)
9.6.2.4.    Valve (Pilot Refuel)                                                                                   -        -       -      -        -
9.6.2.5.    Troubleshoot system                                                                                    -        -       -      -        -
9.6.3.      Remove/Install Components
9.6.3.1.    Adaptor (Ground Refuel)                                                                                -        -       -      -        -
9.6.3.2.    Defuel Valve (Manual                                                                                   -        -       -      -        -
            Operation Isolation)
9.6.3.3.    Float Valve (Pilot Refuel Low                                                                          -        -       -      -        -
            Level)
9.6.3.4.    Check Valve (Pilot Line                                                                                -        -       -      -        -
            Defuel)
9.6.3.5.    Switch (Air Pressure (External                                                                         -        -       -      -        -
            Fuel Tank)
9.6.3.6.    Check Valve (Isolation Refuel)                                                                         -        -       -      -        -
9.6.3.7.    Switch (Fuel Pressure (Refuel                                                                          -        -       -      -        -
            Manifold)
9.6.3.8.    Check Valve (Transfer                                                                                  -        -       -      -        -
            Isolation Refuel)
9.6.3.9.    Float Valve (Low Level Pilot                                                                           -        -       -      -        -
            Defuel)
9.6.3.10.   Check Valve (Pilot Line                                                                                -        -       -      -        -
            Defuel)
9.6.3.11.   Heat Exchanger (Fuel/Air)                                                                              -        -       -      -        -
9.6.3.12.   Check Valve (Return Fuel                                                                               -        -       -      -        -
            Cooler Outlet)
9.6.3.13.   Check Valve (ICC Return)                                                                               -        -       -      -        -
9.6.3.14.   Float Valve (Refuel Manifold                                                                           -        -       -      -        -
            Drain )
9.6.3.15.   Refuel Valve (Pressure                                                                                 -        -       -      -        -
            Operate)
9.6.3.16.   Refuel Valve (Shower Head)                                                                             -        -       -      -        -
9.6.3.17.   Valve (Pilot Refuel)                                                                                   -        -       -      -        -
9.6.3.18.   Ground Refuel Cap                                                                                      -        -       -      -        -


                                                                           75
F-35 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                ATTACHMENT 9
                                                               F-35 Requirements
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks                 3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A           B        C         D       E      A             B               C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                Level

                                                                   Tng       Tng Trainee        Trainer Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)           (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start    Comp Initials       Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course        CDC
9.6.3.19.   Inspect Components                                                                                     -        -       -      -        -
9.7.        Fuel Transfer System
            TR: JTD
9.7.1.      System Operation                                                                                       -        -       -      -        -
9.7.2       Perform Operational Check
9.7.2.1.    Fuel Transfer Pump                                                                                     -        -       -      -        -
9.7.2.2.    Fuel Transfer Shutoff Valve                                                                            -        -       -      -        -
9.7.2.3.    Troubleshoot System                                                                                    -        -       -      -        -
9.7.3.      Remove/Install Components
9.7.3.1.    270Vdc Transfer Pump                                                                                   -        -       -      -        -
9.7.3.2.    Check Valve (270Vdc Transfer                                                                           -        -       -      -        -
            Pump)
9.7.3.3.    Check Valve (Transfer)                                                                                 -        -       -      -        -
9.7.3.4.    Jet Pump (Transfer )                                                                                   -        -       -      -        -
9.7.3.5.    Shutoff Valve (Transfer)                                                                               -        -       -      -        -
9.7.3.6.    Check Valve (Motive Flow)                                                                              -        -       -      -        -
9.7.3.7.    Inspect Components                                                                                     -        -       -      -        -
9.8.        Engine Feed/Motive Flow
            TR: JTD
9.8.1.      System Operation                                                                                       -        -       -      -        -
9.8.2.      Perform Operational Check
9.8.2.1.    Sensor (Fuel Temperature)                                                                              -        -       -      -        -
9.8.2.2.    IPP Shut Off Valve                                                                                     -        -       -      -        -
9.8.2.3.    Troubleshoot System                                                                                    -        -       -      -        -
9.8.3.      Remove/Install Components
9.8.3.1.    Shut Off Valve (Engine Feed)                                                                           -        -       -      -        -
9.8.3.2.    Shut Off Valve (IPP Feed)                                                                              -        -       -      -        -
9.8.3.3.    Check Valve (Engine Feed/IPP)                                                                          -        -       -      -        -
9.8.3.4.    Check Valve (IPP Transfer)                                                                             -        -       -      -        -
9.8.3.5.    Bypass Valve (Engine Starter                                                                           -        -       -      -        -
            Generator)
9.8.3.6.    Check Valve (FADEC Return)                                                                             -        -       -      -        -
9.8.3.7.    Heat Exchanger (Engine Starter                                                                         -        -       -      -        -
            Generator)
9.8.3.8.    Fuel Pressure Sensor, Engine                                                                           -        -       -      -        -
            Inlet
                                                                           76
F-35 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                ATTACHMENT 9
                                                               F-35 Requirements
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks                 3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A           B        C         D       E      A             B               C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                Level

                                                                   Tng       Tng Trainee        Trainer Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)           (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start    Comp Initials       Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course        CDC
9.8.3.9.    Fuel Pressure Sensor, Engine                                                                           -        -       -      -        -
            Feed
9.8.3.10.   Fuel Temperature Sensor, Fuel                                                                          -        -       -      -        -
            Heat Exchanger Outlet RH
9.8.3.11.   Sensor (Fuel Temp, FADEC,                                                                              -        -       -      -        -
            Feed)
9.8.3.12.   Check Valve (Ground Cooling                                                                            -        -       -      -        -
            Shutoff)
9.8.3.13.   Valve (Ground Cooling)                                                                                 -        -       -      -        -
9.8.3.14.   Valve (Thermal Relief)                                                                                 -        -       -      -        -
9.8.3.15.   Valve (Thermal Relief ,IPP                                                                             -        -       -      -        -
            Feed)
9.8.3.16.   Shutoff Valve (Inertial                                                                                -        -       -      -        -
            Measurement Unit, Thermal 1)
9.8.3.17.   Check Valve (Inertial                                                                                  -        -       -      -        -
            Measurement Unit, Thermal 1)
9.8.3.18.   Inspect Components                                                                                     -        -       -      -        -
9.9.        Fuel Dump
            TR: JTD
9.9.1.      System Operation                                                                                       -        -       -      -        -
9.9.2.      Perform Operational Check
9.9.2.1.    Fuel Dump Valve                                                                                        -        -       -      -        -
9.9.2.2.    Troubleshoot System                                                                                    -        -       -      -        -
9.9.3.      Remove/Install Components
9.9.3.1.    Fuel Dump Valve                                                                                        -        -       -      -        -
9.9.3.2.    Inspect Components                                                                                     -        -       -      -        -
9.10.1.     Fuel System Indicating System
            TR: JTD
9.10.1.1    System Operation                                                                                       -        -       -      -        -
9.10.2.     Perform Operational Check
9.10.2.1.   Fuel Indication                                                                                        -        -       -      -        -
9.10.2.2.   Troubleshoot system                                                                                    -        -       -      -        -
9.10.3.     Remove/Install Components
9.10.3.1.   Fuel Probe                                                                                             -        -       -      -        -
9.10.3.2.   Compensator                                                                                            -        -       -      -        -
9.10.3.3.   Sensor, Wet (Vent Tank AC                                                                              -        -       -      -        -
            Line Probe)
9.10.3.4.   Inspect Components                                                                                     -        -       -      -        -


                                                                           77
F-35 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                ATTACHMENT 9
                                                               F-35 Requirements
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks                 3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A           B        C         D       E      A             B               C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                Level

                                                                   Tng       Tng Trainee        Trainer Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)           (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start    Comp Initials       Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course        CDC
9.11.       Aerial Refueling System
            TR: JTD
9.11.1.     System Operation                                                                                       -        -       -      -        -
9.11.2.     Perform Operational Check
9.11.2.1.   Aerial Refueling                                                                                       -        -       -      -        -
9.11.2.2.   Leak Check                                                                                             -        -       -      -        -
9.11.2.3.   Troubleshoot system                                                                                    -        -       -      -        -
9.11.3.     23.11.3. Remove/Install
            Components
9.11.3.1.   Receptacle (Aerial Refuel)                                                                             -        -       -      -        -
9.11.3.2.   Controller (Electro Mechanical                                                                         -        -       -      -        -
            Actuator, In-Flight Refuel
            Receptacle)
9.11.3.3.   Actuator - Electro Mechanical                                                                          -        -       -      -        -
            (In-Flight Refuel Receptacle
            Door, RH)
9.11.3.4.   Controller (Refuel Receptacle                                                                          -        -       -      -        -
            Latch)
9.11.3.5.   Signal Conditioner (Aerial                                                                             -        -       -      -        -
            Refuel)
9.11.3.6.   Outlet Casting, Check Valve                                                                            -        -       -      -        -
            (Air To Air Refuel Receptacle)
9.11.3.7.   Inspect Components                                                                                     -        -       -      -        -
9.12.       On-Board Inert Gas Generating
            System
            TR: JTD
9.12.1.     System Operation                                                                                       -        -       -      -        -
9.12.2.     Perform Operational Check
9.12.2.1.   Fuel/ Air Temperature Sensors                                                                          -        -       -      -        -
9.12.2.2.   Troubleshoot system                                                                                    -        -       -      -        -
9.12.3.     Remove/Install Components
9.12.3.1.   Air Separation Module                                                                                  -        -       -      -        -
            (OBIGGS)
9.12.3.2.   Valve (Nitrogen Enriched Air)                                                                          -        -       -      -        -
9.12.3.3.   Filter (Air Water Separator)                                                                           -        -       -      -        -
9.12.3.4.   Sensor, Air Temperature                                                                                -        -       -      -        -
            (OBIGGS Inlet)
9.12.3.5.   Filter Sensor (Delta Pressure                                                                          -        -       -      -        -
            (OBIGGS)


                                                                           78
F-35 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                ATTACHMENT 9
                                                               F-35 Requirements
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks                 3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A           B        C         D       E      A             B               C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                Level

                                                                   Tng       Tng Trainee        Trainer Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)           (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start    Comp Initials       Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course        CDC
9.12.3.6.   Sensor (Outlet (Air Separator                                                                          -        -       -      -        -
            Module)
9.12.3.7.   Valve (Pressure Regulator                                                                              -        -       -      -        -
            (OBIGGS)
9.12.3.8.   Check Valve (Supply                                                                                    -        -       -      -        -
            (OBIGGS)
9.12.3.9.   Check Valve (OBIGGS Wash)                                                                              -        -       -      -        -
9.12.3.10. Check Valve, Waste Outlet (Air                                                                          -        -       -      -        -
           Separator Module)
9.12.3.11. Inspect Components                                                                                      -        -       -      -        -
9.13.       External Fuel Tank System
            TR: JTD
9.13.1.     Remove/Install Components
9.13.1.1.   External Tank Fuel Disconnect                                                                          -        -       -      -        -
            (Left/ Right Wing)
9.13.1.2.   External Tank Air Disconnect                                                                           -        -       -      -        -
            (Left/ Right Wing)
9.13.1.3.   Inspect Components                                                                                     -        -       -      -        -




                                                                           79
F-35 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                ATTACHMENT 9
                                                           C-17 Requirements
                                                                                                            CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT        Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A        B      C         D         E     A             B               C
                                                                                                            3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                            Level

                                                                   Tng    Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)    (1)    (2) (1)                (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start Comp Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course             CDC
NOTE 1: This STS is mandatory if trainee is required to maintain the C-17 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.
10.           C-17
10.1.         C-17 AIRCRAFT GENERAL
              TR: TOs 1C-17A-2-00JG-00-
              1;
              1C-17A-2-10JG-60-1;
              1C-17A-2-12JG-24-1;
              1C-17A-2-28GS-00-1
              Applicable aircraft TOs
              (e.g., workcards, checklists,
              etc.)
10.1.1.       Remove, Inspect, and Install
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Fuel Tubing and Couplings
10.1.2.       Perform HSC Inspections                                                                         -         -       -     -        -
10.1.3.       Identify Fuselage/Wing
                                                   *                                                          -         -       -     -        -
              Access Entry/Exit
10.1.4.       Identify Underfloor
              Maintenance Tunnel                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Entry/Exit
10.1.5.       Connect/Disconnect External
                                                   *                                                          -         -       -     -        -
              Electrical Power
10.1.6.       Connect/Disconnect Ground
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Air Conditioning Unit
10.1.7.       Connect/Disconnect Main
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Battery
10.1.8.       Perform aircraft safe for
                                                   *                                                          -         -       -     -        -
              maintenance
10.1.9.       Apply hydraulic pressure
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              TR 1C-17A-2-12JG-29-1
10.2.         SERVICING FUEL
              TR: TO 1C-17A-2-12JG-28-
              1 and 1C-17A-2-12JG-28-2
10.2.1.       Perform Single Point Refuel                                                                     -         -       -     -        -
10.2.2.       Perform Single Point Defuel                                                                     -         -       -     -        -
10.2.3.       Drain Fuel Tank/Vent Box
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Sump
10.2.4.       Drain Fuel Manifold                                                                             -         -       -     -        -




                                                                        80
C-17 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                             ATTACHMENT 10
                                                           C-17 Requirements
                                                                                                            CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT        Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A        B      C         D         E     A             B               C
                                                                                                            3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                            Level

                                                                   Tng    Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)    (1)    (2) (1)                (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start Comp Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course             CDC
10.3.         FIRE PROTECTION
              EXTINGUISHING
              TR: TO 1C-17A-2-26JG-20-
              1
10.3.1.       System Operation                                                                                -         -       -     -        -
10.3.2.       Perform Operational Check
              on Engine Fire Fuel Shutoff          *                                                          -         -       -     -        -
              Gate Valve
10.3.3.       Troubleshoot Engine Fire
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Fuel Shutoff Gate Valve
10.3.4.       Remove/Install Engine Fire
              Fuel Shutoff Gate Valve and                                                                     -         -       -     -        -
              Actuator
10.3.5.       Inspect Components                            *                                                 -         -       -     -        -
10.4.         FUEL STORAGE
              TR: TOs 1C-17A-2-28JG-10-
              1,
              1C-17A-2-28JG-10-2,
              1C-17A-2-28JG-10-3,
              1C-17A-2-28JG-10-4, and
              1C-17A-2-28JG-10-5
10.4.1.       System Operation                                                                                -         -       -     -        -
10.4.2.       Perform Operational Check
10.4.2.1.     Fuel Tank Pressure                   *                                                          -         -       -     -        -
10.4.2.2.     Inert Control Panel                                                                             -         -       -     -        -
10.4.2.3.     Secondary Climb & Dive               *
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Valve
10.4.2.4.     Fuel Center Separation Valve         *                                                          -         -       -     -        -
10.4.3.       Troubleshoot System                           *                                                 -         -       -     -        -
10.4.4.       Remove/Install Components
10.4.4.1.     Fuel Vent Valve Hydraulic
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Override Solenoid Valve
10.4.4.2.     Wing Vent Test Solenoid
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Valve
10.4.4.3.     Wing Vent Box Pressure
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Transducer
10.4.4.4.     Fuel Vent Float Valve                                                                           -         -       -     -        -
10.4.4.5.     Fuel Transfer/Dump Pump
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Housing

                                                                        81
C-17 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                             ATTACHMENT 10
                                                           C-17 Requirements
                                                                                                            CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT        Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A        B      C         D         E     A             B               C
                                                                                                            3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                            Level

                                                                   Tng    Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)    (1)    (2) (1)                (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start Comp Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course             CDC
10.4.4.6.     Fuel Transfer/Dump Pump                                                                         -         -       -     -        -
10.4.4.7.     Fuel Center Separation Valve                                                                    -         -       -     -        -
10.4.4.8.     Fuel Center Separation Valve
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Actuator
10.4.4.9.     Drain Leak Sense Valve                                                                          -         -       -     -        -
10.4.4.10.    Sump Drain Valve                                                                                -         -       -     -        -
10.4.5.       Repair Sump Drain Valve                                                                         -         -       -     -        -
10.4.6.       Primary Climb and Dive
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Valve
10.4.7.       Secondary Climb and Dive
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Valve
10.4.8.       Vent box Scavenge Check
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Valve
10.4.9.       Flapper Door Check Valve                                                                        -         -       -     -        -
10.4.10.      Inspect Components                            *                                                 -         -       -     -        -
10.4.11.      Center Fuselage Drain Mast
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Assembly
10.5.         FUEL DISTRIBUTION
              TR: TOs 1C-17A-2-28JG-20-
              1,
              1C-17A-2-28JG-20-2,
              1C-17A-2-28JG-20-3,
              1C-17A-2-28JG-20-4,
              1C-17A-2-28JG-20-5,
              20-6, and 20-7
10.5.1.       System Operation                                                                                -         -       -     -        -
10.5.2.       Perform Operational Check
10.5.2.1.     Ground Refueling Control             *
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Panel
10.5.2.2.     Ground Refuel Isolation              *
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Valve
10.5.2.3.     Engine Start Fuel System             *
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Control Panel
10.5.2.4.     Fuel Boost Pump                      *                                                          -         -       -     -        -
10.5.2.5.     Crossfeed Valve and Actuator         *                                                          -         -       -     -        -
10.5.2.6.     APU Fuel Fire Shutoff Valve          *                                                          -         -       -     -        -
10.5.2.7.     Ground Refuel Manifold               *
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Solenoid Drain Valve

                                                                        82
C-17 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                             ATTACHMENT 10
                                                           C-17 Requirements
                                                                                                            CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT        Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A        B      C         D         E     A             B               C
                                                                                                            3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                            Level

                                                                   Tng    Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)    (1)    (2) (1)                (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start Comp Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course             CDC
10.5.2.8.     Ground Refuel Isolation              *
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Valve Actuator
10.5.2.9.     Fuel Fill Shutoff Valve              *                                                          -         -       -     -        -
10.5.2.10.    Fuel Fill Shutoff Valve              *
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Controller
10.5.2.11.    Fuel Fill Shutoff Float Valve                                                                   -         -       -     -        -
10.5.2.12.    High Level Shutoff Solenoid          *
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Valve
10.5.2.13.    Ground Refuel Adapter                *                                                          -         -       -     -        -
10.5.2.14.    APU Fuel Feed Low Press              *
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Switch
10.5.2.15.    Ground Refuel Manifold               *
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Drain Pump
10.5.2.16.    Ground Refuel Manifold Low           *
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Press Switch
10.5.3.       Troubleshoot System                           *                                                 -         -       -     -        -
10.5.4.       Remove/Install Components
10.5.4.1.     Ground Refuel Isolation
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Valve Actuator
10.5.4.2.     Ground Refuel Isolation
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Valve
10.5.4.3.     Fuel Fill Shutoff Valve                                                                         -         -       -     -        -
10.5.4.4.     Fuel Fill Shutoff Valve
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Controller
10.5.4.5.     Fuel Fill Shutoff Float Valve                                                                   -         -       -     -        -
10.5.4.6.     High Level Shutoff solenoid
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Valve
10.5.4.7.     Ground Refuel Adapter                *                                                          -         -       -     -        -
10.5.4.8.     Fuel Boost Pump Housing                                                                         -         -       -     -        -
10.5.4.9.     Fuel Boost Pump                                                                                 -         -       -     -        -
10.5.4.10.    Gate and Actuator Assembly                                                                      -         -       -     -        -
10.5.4.11.    Crossfeed Valve Port Adapter                                                                    -         -       -     -        -
10.5.4.12.    APU Fuel Fire Shutoff Valve                                                                     -         -       -     -        -
10.5.4.13.    APU Fuel Feed Low Press
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Switch



                                                                        83
C-17 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                             ATTACHMENT 10
                                                           C-17 Requirements
                                                                                                            CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT        Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A        B      C         D         E     A             B               C
                                                                                                            3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                            Level

                                                                   Tng    Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)    (1)    (2) (1)                (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start Comp Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course             CDC
10.5.4.14.    Ground Refuel Manifold
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Solenoid Drain Valve
10.5.4.15.    Ground Refuel Manifold
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Drain Pump
10.5.4.16.    Ground Refuel Manifold Low
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Press Switch
10.5.4.17.    Fuel Manifold Surge Relief
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Valve
10.5.4.18.    Crossfeed Manifold Surge
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Relief Valve
10.5.4.19.    Bypass Check Valve                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
10.5.4.20.    Fuel Crossfeed Manifold
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Valve
10.5.4.21.    Ground Refuel Manifold
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Manual Drain Valve
10.5.5.       Inspect Components                            *                                                 -         -       -     -        -
10.6.         FUEL DUMP
              TR: TO 1C-17A-2-28JG-30-
              1
10.6.1.       System Operation                                                                                -         -       -     -        -
10.6.2.       Perform Operational Check
10.6.2.1.     Tank Dump Float Liquid
                                                   *                                                          -         -       -     -        -
              Level Switch
10.6.2.2.     Fuel Jettison Butterfly Valve        *                                                          -         -       -     -        -
10.6.2.3.     Fuel Dump Valve Actuator             *                                                          -         -       -     -        -
10.6.3.       Troubleshoot System                           *                                                 -         -       -     -        -
10.6.4.       Remove/Install Components
10.6.4.1.     Engine feed/Jettison Check
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Valve
10.6.4.2.     Tank Dump Float Liquid
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Level Switch
10.6.4.3.     Fuel Dump Valve Actuator                                                                        -         -       -     -        -
10.6.4.4.     Fuel Jettison Butterfly Valve                                                                   -         -       -     -        -
10.6.5.       Inspect Components                            *                                                 -         -       -     -        -




                                                                        84
C-17 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                             ATTACHMENT 10
                                                           C-17 Requirements
                                                                                                            CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT        Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A        B      C         D         E     A             B               C
                                                                                                            3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                            Level

                                                                   Tng    Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)    (1)    (2) (1)                (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start Comp Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course             CDC
10.7.         FUEL QUANTITY
              INDICATING SYSTEM
              TR: TO 1C-17A-2-28JG-40-
              1, 1C-17A-2-28JG-40-2, 1C-
              17A-2-28JG-40-3, 40-4, and
              40-5
10.7.1.       System Operation                                                                                -         -       -     -        -
10.7.2.       Remove/Install Components
10.7.2.1.     Tank Densitometer                                                                               -         -       -     -        -
10.7.2.2.     Fuel Quantity Compensator                                                                       -         -       -     -        -
10.7.2.3.     Fuel Quantity Tank Unit                                                                         -         -       -     -        -
10.7.3.       Inspect Components                            *                                                 -         -       -     -        -
10.7.4.       High Level Sensors                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
10.7.5.       Perform Fuel Indicating              *
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              System Operational Check
10.7.6.       Fuel Quantity Dry
              Capacitance Operational                                                                         -         -       -     -        -
              Check
10.8.         AUTO TRANSFER
              SYSTEM
10.8.1.       System Operation                                                                                -         -       -     -        -
10.8.2.       Perform Operational Check            *
              on Fuel Level Sensing Float                                                                     -         -       -     -        -
              Switch
10.8.3.       Troubleshoot System                           *                                                 -         -       -     -        -
10.8.4.       Remove/Install Fuel Level                                                                       -         -       -     -        -
              Sensing Float Switch
10.8.5.       Inspect Components                           *                                                  -         -       -     -        -
10.9.         FUEL UNIVERSAL AIR
              REFUELING RECEIVER
              SYSTEM INSTALLATION
              TR: TO 1C-17A-2-28JG-50-
              1, 1C-17A-2-28JG-50-2,
              1C-17A-2-28-JG-50-3, 1C-
              17A-2-28JG-50-4, 1C-17A-2-
              28JG-50-5, 50-6, and 50-7
10.9.1.       System Operation                                                                                -         -       -     -        -
10.9.2.       Perform Operational Check




                                                                        85
C-17 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                             ATTACHMENT 10
                                                           C-17 Requirements
                                                                                                            CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT        Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A        B      C         D         E     A             B               C
                                                                                                            3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                            Level

                                                                   Tng    Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)    (1)    (2) (1)                (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start Comp Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course             CDC
10.9.2.1.     Universal Aerial Refueling           *
              Receptacle Slipway                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Installation
10.9.2.2.     Manifold Drain Pump                                                                             -         -       -     -        -
10.9.2.3.     Isolation Valve                                                                                 -         -       -     -        -
10.9.2.4.     Manifold Drain Valve                                                                            -         -       -     -        -
10.9.2.5.     Receptacle System Leak
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Pressure Decay Check
10.9.3.       Door Actuating And
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Indicating System
10.9.4.       Troubleshoot System                           *                                                 -         -       -     -        -
10.9.5.       Remove/Install Components
10.9.5.1.     Universal Receptacle Slipway
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Installation
10.9.5.2.     Manifold Drain Pump                                                                             -         -       -     -        -
10.9.5.3.     Isolation Valve and Actuator                                                                    -         -       -     -        -
10.9.5.4.     Manifold Drain Valve                                                                            -         -       -     -        -
10.9.5.5.     Slipway Door                                                                                    -         -       -     -        -
10.9.5.6.     Induction Coil                                                                                  -         -       -     -        -
10.9.5.7.     Manual Drain Valve                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
10.9.5.8.     Manifold Check Valve                                                                            -         -       -     -        -
10.9.5.9.     Leak Sense Drain Valve                                                                          -         -       -     -        -
10.9.5.10.    Leak Sense Drain Can
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Assembly
10.9.6.       Inspect System Components                    *                                                  -         -       -     -        -
10.9.7.       Signal Amplifier                                                                                -         -       -     -        -
10.9.8.       Scavenge Low Pressure
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Switch
10.9.9.       Overpressure Disconnect
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Switch
10.9.10.      Door Actuator Assembly                                                                          -         -       -     -        -
10.9.11.      Forward Fuselage Air
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Refueling Drain Mast
10.10.        FUEL TANK ENTRY
10.10.1.      Fuel Tank Entry/Exit
                                                   *                                                          -         -       -     -        -
              TR: 1C-17A-2-28JG-00-1



                                                                        86
C-17 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                             ATTACHMENT 10
                                                           C-17 Requirements
                                                                                                            CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT        Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A        B      C         D         E     A             B               C
                                                                                                            3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                            Level

                                                                   Tng    Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)    (1)    (2) (1)                (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start Comp Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course             CDC
10.10.2.      Remove and Install Fuel Tank
              Access Panels/Jump Doors             *                                                          -         -       -     -        -
              TR: 1C-17A-2-57JG-10-1
10.10.3.      Extended Range Fuel Tank
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Entry/Exit Alternate Method
10.11.        INTEGRAL FUEL TANK
              MAINTENANCE
10.11.1.      Integral Tank Construction                                                                      -         -       -     -        -
10.11.2.      Perform Leak Path Analysis           *                                                          -         -       -     -        -
10.11.3.      Perform Positive Pressure            *
              Test of Integral Tanks                                                                          -         -       -     -        -
              TR: 1C-17A-2-28JG-10-1
10.11.4.      Perform Negative Pressure            *
              Test of Integral Tanks                                                                          -         -       -     -        -
              TR: 1C-17A-2-28JG-10-1
10.12.        EXTENDED RANGE TANK
10.12.1.      Submerged Fuel Transfer
              Pump
10.12.1.1.    Operational Checkout
              TR: TOs 1C-17A-2-28JG-10-            *                                                          -         -       -     -        -
              4 and 28-13-16
10.12.1.2.    Removal/Installation
              TR: TOs 1C-17A-2-28JG-10-                                                                       -         -       -     -        -
              4 and 28-13-16
10.12.1.3.    Troubleshooting                               *
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              TR: TO 1C-17A-2-28FI-00-1
10.12.1.4.    Inspect components                            *                                                 -         -       -     -        -
10.12.2.      Extended Range Fuel Transfer
              Ejector System
              TR: 1C-17A-2-28JG-10-5
10.12.2.1.    Operational Checkout                 *                                                          -         -       -     -        -
10.12.2.2.    Removal/Installation                                                                            -         -       -     -        -
10.12.2.3.    Gravity Check Valve                                                                             -         -       -     -        -
10.12.2.4.    Scavenge Check Valve                                                                            -         -       -     -        -
10.12.2.5.    Fuel Water Scavenge Rake
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
              Tube Assembly
10.12.2.6.    Troubleshooting                               *                                                 -         -       -     -        -
10.12.2.7.    Inspect components                            *                                                 -         -       -     -        -



                                                                        87
C-17 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                             ATTACHMENT 10
                                                           C-17 Requirements
                                                                                                            CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT        Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A        B      C         D         E     A             B               C
                                                                                                            3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                            Level

                                                                   Tng    Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)    (1)    (2) (1)                (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start Comp Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course             CDC
10.12.3.       Secondary Barrier
               TR: TOs 1C-17A-2-28JG-10-
               1 and 28-11-10
10.12.3.1.     Removal/Installation                                                                           -         -       -     -        -
10.12.3.2.     Leak Check Inspection                                                                          -         -       -     -        -
10.12.3.3.     Fuel and Gas Vapor
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
               Inspection
10.12.3.4.     Secondary Barrier
               Forward/Aft Check Valve                                                                        -         -       -     -        -
               Repair
10.12.3.5.     Test Equipment
10.12.3.5.1.   Perform Operational
               Checkout
10.12.3.5.1.   Adapter and Vacuum Purging
1.             Test Set. TR:
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
               TOs 1C-17A-2-28JG-10-1
               and 33D2-3-129-1
10.12.3.5.1.   Seal Pressure Test Set
2.             TR: TOs 1C-17A-2-28JG-10-                                                                      -         -       -     -        -
               1 and 33D2-3-128-1
10.12.4.       Test Set, Leak Detection, Gas
               and Vapor
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
               TR: TO 1C-17A-2-28JG-10-
               1 Manufacturer’s Instructions
10.12.5.       Kit, Test Adapter Fuel
               Quantity
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
               TR: TO 1C-17A-2-28JG-40-
               1
10.12.6.       Kit, Fuel Quantity Breakout
               Box
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
               TR: TO 1C-17A-2-28JG-40-
               1
10.12.7.       Test Set, PSD90-1
                                                                                                              -         -       -     -        -
               TR: TO 1C-17A-2-28JG-40-1
10.13.         Trailer, Secondary Barrier
               TR: TOs 1C-17A-2-28JG-10-
               1 and 35D5-5-9-1
10.13.1.       Use                                                                                            -         -       -     -        -
10.13.2        Operation                                                                                      -         -       -     -        -




                                                                        88
C-17 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                             ATTACHMENT 10
This page intentionally left blank.
                                                       C-18 / E-8C Requirements
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT            Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A        B      C         D            E       A             B               C
                                                                                                                 3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                 Level

                                                                   Tng    Tng Trainee      Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)       (2) (1)    (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level   Start Comp Initials     Initials      Initials Course Course    CDC Course CDC
NOTE 1: This STS is mandatory if trainee is required to maintain the C-18 or E-8C aircraft.
NOTE 2: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.

11.        C-18 and E-8C
11.1.      C-18 and E-8C AIRCRAFT
           GENERAL
           TR: TO 1E-8C-2-28GS-00-1 and
           1C-18 (E) B-2-28GS-00-1
11.1.1.    Aircraft Safety Precautions                                                                             -        -         -      -       -
11.1.2.    Apply and Remove External               *
                                                                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
           Power
11.1.3.    Remove, Inspect, and Install Fuel
                                                                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
           Tubing and Couplings
11.1.4.    Perform aircraft safe for               *
                                                                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
           maintenance
11.2.      FUEL DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
           TR: TOs 1E-8C-2-28GS-11-0 and
           1C-18 (E) B-2-28GS-11-0
11.2.1.    System Operation                                                                                        -        -         -      -       -
11.2.2.    Perform Operational Check
11.2.2.1. Engine Feed                              *                                                               -        -         -      -       -
11.2.2.2. Fuel Transfer                            *                                                               -        -         -      -       -
11.2.2.3. Refuel/Defuel                            *                                                               -        -         -      -       -
11.2.2.4. Air Refueling System                     *                                                               -        -         -      -       -
11.2.3.    Troubleshoot System
11.2.3.1. Engine Feed                                       *                                                      -        -         -      -       -
11.2.3.2. Fuel Transfer                                     *                                                      -        -         -      -       -
11.2.3.3. Refuel/Defuel                                     *                                                      -        -         -      -       -
11.2.3.4. Air Refueling System                              *                                                      -        -         -      -       -
11.2.4.    Remove/Install Components
11.2.4.1. Dual Check Valve                                                                                         -        -         -      -       -
11.2.4.2. Dual Shuttle Valve                                                                                       -        -         -      -       -
11.2.4.3. Override Pump Check Valve                                                                                -        -         -      -       -
11.2.4.4. Single Point Refuel Receptacle           *                                                               -        -         -      -       -
11.2.4.5. Engine Fuel Shutoff Valves                                                                               -        -         -      -       -
11.2.4.6. Boost Pumps                              *                                                               -        -         -      -       -

                                                                        90
C-18 / E-8C REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                        ATTACHMENT 11
                                                       C-18 / E-8C Requirements
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT            Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A        B      C         D            E       A             B               C
                                                                                                                 3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                 Level

                                                                   Tng    Tng Trainee      Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)       (2) (1)    (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level   Start Comp Initials     Initials      Initials Course Course    CDC Course CDC

11.2.4.7. Boost Pump Removal Valve                                                                                 -        -         -      -       -
11.2.4.8. Boost Override Pumps                                                                                     -        -         -      -       -
11.2.4.9. Boost Override Pump Removal
                                                                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
          Valve
11.2.4.10. Low Pressure Warning Switch                                                                             -        -         -      -       -
11.2.4.11. Engine Fuel Manifold Valves                                                                             -        -         -      -       -
11.2.4.12. Reserve Tank Transfer Valves                                                                            -        -         -      -       -
11.2.4.13. Dual Pilot Valves                                                                                       -        -         -      -       -
11.2.4.14. Main Refueling Valve                                                                                    -        -         -      -       -
11.2.4.15. Secondary Float Switch                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
11.2.4.16. Fuel Level Control Valves                                                                               -        -         -      -       -
11.2.4.17. Manual Defuel Valve                                                                                     -        -         -      -       -
11.2.4.18. Defueling Valve                                                                                         -        -         -      -       -
11.2.4.19. Universal Aerial Refueling
                                                                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
           Receptacle
11.2.4.20. Universal Aerial Refueling Main
                                                                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
           Sleeve
11.2.4.21. Universal Aerial Refueling Fuel
                                                                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
           Manifold
11.2.4.22. Universal Aerial Refueling Signal
                                                                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
           Amplifier
11.2.5.   Inspect Components                                *                                                      -        -         -      -       -
11.3.     FUEL DUMP SYSTEM
          TR: TO 1E-8C-2-28GS-001 and
          1C-18 (E) B-2-28GS-22-0
11.3.1.   System Operation                                                                                         -        -         -      -       -
11.3.2.   Perform Operational Check
11.3.2.1. Dump Valves                              *                                                               -        -         -      -       -
11.3.2.2. Dump Chute                               *                                                               -        -         -      -       -
11.3.3.   Troubleshoot System                               *                                                      -        -         -      -       -
11.3.4.   Remove / Install Components
11.3.4.1. Dump Valves                                                                                              -        -         -      -       -
11.3.4.2. Dump Chute                                                                                               -        -         -      -       -
11.3.4.3. Dump Chute Closure Panel                                                                                 -        -         -      -       -


                                                                        91
C-18 / E-8C REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                        ATTACHMENT 11
                                                       C-18 / E-8C Requirements
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT            Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A        B      C         D            E       A             B               C
                                                                                                                 3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                 Level

                                                                   Tng    Tng Trainee      Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)       (2) (1)    (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level   Start Comp Initials     Initials      Initials Course Course    CDC Course CDC

11.3.4.4. Dump Chute Actuator                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
11.3.5.   Inspect Components                                *                                                      -        -         -      -       -
11.4.     FUEL QUANTITY INDICATING
          SYSTEM
          TR: TOs 1E-8C-2-28JG-40-1 and
          1C-18(E) B-2-28JG-8-0
11.4.1.   System Operation                                                                                         -        -         -      -       -
11.4.2.   Remove and Install Components
11.4.2.1. Tank Units                                                                                               -        -         -      -       -
11.4.2.2. Wire Harness                                                                                             -        -         -      -       -
11.4.3.   Inspect Components                                *                                                      -        -         -      -       -
11.5.     TANK STORAGE
          TR: TOs 1E-8C-2-28GS-00-1 and
          1C-18 (E) B-2-28GS-2-0
11.5.1.   System Operation                                                                                         -        -         -      -       -
11.5.2.   Perform Injection Repair of Wing
                                                                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
          Tanks
11.5.3.   Perform Positive Pressure Test on        *
                                                                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
          Integral Tanks
11.5.4.   Remove and Install
11.5.4.1. Dip Sticks                                                                                               -        -         -      -       -
11.5.4.2. Overwing Filler Ports                                                                                    -        -         -      -       -
11.5.4.3. Inspect Components                                                                                       -        -         -      -       -
11.5.5.   Cells
11.5.5.1. Identify Cell Cavity Drains              *                                                               -        -         -      -       -
11.5.5.2. Perform Leak Isolation                                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
11.6.     Vent System
11.6.1.   System Operation                                                                                         -        -         -      -       -
11.6.2.   Troubleshoot System                               *                                                      -        -         -      -       -
11.6.3.   Remove/Install Components
11.6.3.1. Vent Float                                                                                               -        -         -      -       -
11.6.3.2. Vent Scoop                                                                                               -        -         -      -       -
11.6.3.3. Vent Surge Tank Check Valve                                                                              -        -         -      -       -
11.6.3.4. Inspect Components                                *                                                      -        -         -      -       -




                                                                        92
C-18 / E-8C REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                        ATTACHMENT 11
This page intentionally left blank.
                                                       C-130 Requirements
                                                                                                            CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                             4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                      2. Core Tasks          3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                             Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                       A       B        A     B      C        D         E       A             B               C
                                                                                                              3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
      1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                              Level

                                                                       Tng Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier      (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                     5 Level 7 Level
                                                                       Start Comp Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
NOTE 1: This STS is mandatory if trainee is required to maintain the C-130 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.
12.             C-130
12.1.           C-130 AIRCRAFT GENERAL
                TR: 1C-130H-2-28GS-00-1, 1C-
                130H-2-28 Series Job Guides ,
                1C-130H-2-00GE-00-1, 1C-130J-
                2-00GV-00-1, 1C-130J-2-28GS-
                00-1 and 1C-130J-2-28 Series Job
                Guides
12.1.1.         Apply/Remove External Power            *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
12.1.2          Disconnect/Reconnect aircraft
                                                                                                                -         -       -       -          -
                battery
12.1.3          Disconnect/Reconnect SCNS
                                                                                                                -         -       -       -          -
                battery
12.1.4          Initiating Maintenance Drain
                Cycle Via PMA (Portable                *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
                Maintenance Aid)
12.1.5.         Initiating Maintenance Drain
                                                       *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
                Cycle Via DTADS
12.1.6.         Remove/Inspect/Install Fuel
                System Tubing, hoses, and              *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
                Couplings
12.1.7.         Perform Inspections (HSC/ISO)                                                                   -         -       -       -          -
12.1.7.         Connect/Use/Disconnect PMA             *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
12.1.9.         Connect/Use/Disconnect DTADS           *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
12.1.10.        Perform aircraft safe for
                                                       *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
                maintenance
12.2.           FUEL DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
                TR: TO 1C-130H-2-00GE-00-1,
                1C-130H-2-28GS-00-1,
                1C-130J-2-28JG-20-1,
                1C-130(W)J-2-28JG-20-1 and
                1C-130H-2-28 Series Job Guides
12.2.1.         System Operation                                                                                -         -       -       -          -
12.2.2.         Perform Operational Check
12.2.2.1.       Fuel Boost Pumps                       *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
12.2.2.2.       Fuel Management Controller             *
                                                                                                                -         -       -       -          -
                (FMC) IBIT (J-Model)
12.2.2.3.       Crossfeed Valve(s)                     *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
12.2.2.4.       Fire Wall Shut Off Valve(s)            *                                                        -         -       -       -          -

                                                                        94
C-130 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                               ATTACHMENT 12
                                                     C-130 Requirements
                                                                                                          CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                    2. Core Tasks          3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                     A       B        A     B      C        D         E       A             B               C
                                                                                                            3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                            Level

                                                                     Tng Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier      (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                   5 Level 7 Level
                                                                     Start Comp Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
12.2.2.5.     Crossfeed Primer Valve                 *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
12.2.2.6.     External/Auxiliary Bypass
                                                     *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
              Valve(s)
12.2.2.7.     Fuel Cross Ship Separation Valve
                                                     *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
              (J-Model)
12.2.2.8.     Center Separation Valve                *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
12.2.2.9.     External/Auxiliary Pressure
                                                     *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
              Switch(s)
12.2.2.10.    APU/GTC Valve                          *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
12.2.2.11.    Fuel Level Control Valve               *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
12.2.2.12.    Ground Transfer Valve                  *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
12.2.2.13.    Pressure Relief Valve                  *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
12.2.2.14.    Fuel Transfer Pump (J-Model)           *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
12.2.3.       Troubleshoot System                            *                                                -         -       -       -          -
12.2.4.       Remove and Install Components
12.2.4.1.     Horse Collar Hose(s)                                                                            -         -       -       -          -
12.2.4.2.     Boost Pump(s)                                                                                   -         -       -       -          -
12.2.4.3.     Crossfeed Valve(s)                                                                              -         -       -       -          -
12.2.4.4.     Firewall Shutoff Valve(s)                                                                       -         -       -       -          -
12.2.4.5.     Crossfeed Primer Valve                                                                          -         -       -       -          -
12.2.4.6.     External/Auxiliary Bypass
                                                                                                              -         -       -       -          -
              Valve(s)
12.2.4.7.     Center Separation Valve                                                                         -         -       -       -          -
12.2.4.8.     External/Auxiliary Pressure
                                                                                                              -         -       -       -          -
              Switch(s)
12.2.4.9.     APU/GTC Valve                                                                                   -         -       -       -          -
12.2.4.10.    Fuel Level Control Valve                                                                        -         -       -       -          -
12.2.4.11.    Water Removal Screen(s)
                                                                                                              -         -       -       -          -
              TR: TO 1C-130A-6
12.2.4.12.    Water Removal System Ejector
                                                                                                              -         -       -       -          -
              Pumps
12.2.4.13.    Ground Transfer Valve                                                                           -         -       -       -          -
12.2.4.14.    Pressure Relief Valve                                                                           -         -       -       -          -
12.2.4.15.    Cross Ship Separation Valve (J-
                                                                                                              -         -       -       -          -
              Model)

                                                                      95
C-130 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                             ATTACHMENT 12
                                                     C-130 Requirements
                                                                                                          CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                    2. Core Tasks          3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                     A       B        A     B      C        D         E       A             B               C
                                                                                                            3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                            Level

                                                                     Tng Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier      (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                   5 Level 7 Level
                                                                     Start Comp Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
12.2.4.16.    Fuel Check valve                                                                                -         -       -       -          -
12.4.4.17.    Fuel Transfer Pump (J-Model)                                                                    -         -       -       -          -
12.2.5.       Inspect Components                              *                                               -         -       -       -          -
12.3.         GROUND REFUELING
              SYSTEM
              TR: TO1C-130H-2-00GE-00-1,
              1C-130H-2-28GS-00-1,
              1C-130H-2-12JG-10-1, 1C-
              130H-2-28 Series Job Guides,
              1C-130J-2-00GV-00-1, 1C-130J-
              2-28GS-00-1, 1C-130J-2-28
              Series Job guides
12.3.1.       System Operation                                                                                -         -       -       -          -
12.3.2.       Perform Refuel/defuel operation                                                                 -         -       -       -          -
12.3.3.       Perform Operational Check
12.3.3.1.     SPR Pump                               *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
12.3.3.2.     Single Point Refueling Drain           *
                                                                                                              -         -       -       -          -
              System
12.3.3.3.     Refuel Ground Transfer Valve           *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
12.3.3.4.     Off Load Valve                         *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
12.3.3.5.     SPR Manual Drain Valve                 *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
12.3.3.6.     SPR Valve (J-Model)                     *                                                       -         -       -       -          -
12.3.3.7.     Troubleshoot System                            *                                                -         -       -       -          -
12.3.4.       Remove and Install Components
12.3.4.1.     SPR Shutoff Valve                                                                               -         -       -       -          -
12.3.4.2.     SPR Pump                                                                                        -         -       -       -          -
12.3.4.3.     Refuel Ground Transfer Valve                                                                    -         -       -       -          -
12.3.4.4.     Off Load Valve                                                                                  -         -       -       -          -
12.3.4.5.     SPR Cock Drain Valve                                                                            -         -       -       -          -
12.3.4.6.     SPR Adapter Assembly                                                                            -         -       -       -          -
12.3.4.7.     SPR Surge Suppressor                                                                            -         -       -       -          -
12.3.4.8.     SPR Vent Check Valve (s)                                                                        -         -       -       -          -
12.3.5.       Inspect Components                             *                                                -         -       -       -          -




                                                                      96
C-130 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                             ATTACHMENT 12
                                                     C-130 Requirements
                                                                                                          CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                    2. Core Tasks          3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                     A       B        A     B      C        D         E       A             B               C
                                                                                                            3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                            Level

                                                                     Tng Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier      (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                   5 Level 7 Level
                                                                     Start Comp Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
12.4.         FUEL JETTISON/DUMP
              SYSTEM
              TR: 1C-130H-2-00GE-00-1,
              1C-130H-2-28GS-00-1, and
              1C-130H-2-28 Series Job
              Guides, 1C-130J-2-00GV-00-1
              1C-130J-2-28GS-00-1
              1C-130J-2-28 Series Job guides
12.4.1.       System Operation                                                                                -         -       -       -          -
12.4.2.       Perform Operational Check
12.4.2.1.     Dump Pump                              *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
12.4.2.2.     Jettison Valve(s)                      *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
12.4.2.3.     Dump Shutoff (X) Valve(s)              *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
12.4.3.       Troubleshoot System                            *                                                -         -       -       -          -
12.4.4.       Remove and Install Components
12.4.4.1.     Dump Pump                                                                                       -         -       -       -          -
12.4.4.2.     Jettison Valve(s)                                                                               -         -       -       -          -
12.4.4.3.     Dump Shutoff (X) Valve(s)                                                                       -         -       -       -          -
12.4.5.       Inspect Components                             *                                                -         -       -       -          -
12.5.         VENT SYSTEM
              TR: 1C-130H-2-00GE-00-1,
              1C-130H-2-28GS-00-1, 1C-
              130H-2-28 Series Job Guides,
              1C-130J-2-00GV-00-1, 1C-130J-
              2-28GS-00-1, and 1C-130J-2-28
              Series Job guides
12.5.1.       System Operation                                                                                -         -       -       -          -
12.5.2.       Troubleshoot System                            *                                                -         -       -       -          -
12.5.3.       Remove and Install Components
12.5.3.1.     Vent System Plumbing                                                                            -         -       -       -          -
12.5.3.2.     Vent Valves                                                                                     -         -       -       -          -
12.5.3.3.     Vent Tank Check Valves                                                                          -         -       -       -          -
12.5.3.4.     Vent Tank                                                                                       -         -       -       -          -
12.5.4.       Inspect Components                             *                                                -         -       -       -          -




                                                                      97
C-130 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                             ATTACHMENT 12
                                                     C-130 Requirements
                                                                                                          CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                    2. Core Tasks          3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                     A       B        A     B      C        D         E       A             B               C
                                                                                                            3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                            Level

                                                                     Tng Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier      (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                   5 Level 7 Level
                                                                     Start Comp Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
12.6.         FUEL INDICATION SYSTEM
              TR: TO1C-130H-2-00GE-00-1,
              1C-130H-2-28GS-00-1, 1C-
              130H-2-28 Series Job Guides,
              1C-130J-2-00GV-00-1, 1C-130J-
              2-28GS-00-1, 1C-130J-2-28
              Series Job guides
12.6.1.       System Operation                                                                                -         -       -       -          -
12.6.2.       Troubleshoot System (In-Tank)                   *                                               -         -       -       -          -
12.6.3.       Remove and Install Components
12.6.3.1.     Fuel Wiring Harness                                                                             -         -       -       -          -
12.6.3.2.     Fuel Pressure Transducer (J-                                                                    -         -       -       -          -
              Model)
12.6.3.3.     Fuel Probe                                                                                      -         -       -       -          -
12.6.3.4.     Aux Tank Magnetic Sight Gauge                                                                   -         -       -       -          -
12.6.4.       Inspect Components                              *                                               -         -       -       -          -
12.7.         FUEL STORAGE SYSTEM
              TR: TO 1C-130H-2-00GE-00-1,
              1C-130H-2-28GS-00-1, 1C-
              130H-2-28 Series Job Guides,
              1C-130J-2-00GV-00-1, 1C-130J-
              2-28GS-00-1, 1C-130J-2-28
              Series Job guides
12.7.1.       System Operation                                                                                -         -       -       -          -
12.7.2.       Troubleshoot Auxiliary Fuel                     *
                                                                                                              -         -       -       -          -
              Cell(s)
12.7.3.       Remove and Install Components
12.7.3.1.     Boost Pump Plate(s)                                                                             -         -       -       -          -
12.7.3.2.     External Fuel Tank Nose/Tail
                                                                                                              -         -       -       -          -
              Cones (American Electric Tanks)
12.7.3.3.     Filler Cap/Adapter(s)                                                                           -         -       -       -          -
12.7.3.4.     Condensation Drain Valve(s)                                                                     -         -       -       -          -
12.7.4.       Inspect Components                             *                                                -         -       -       -          -
12.8.         AIR REFUELING SYSTEM
              TR: TO 1C-130H-2-00GE-00-1,
              1C-130H-2-28GS-00-1, 1C-
              130H-2-28 Series Job Guides,
              1C-130J-2-00GV-00-1, 1C-130J-
              2-28GS-00-1 and 1C-130J-2-28
              Series Job guides
12.8.1.       System Operation                                                                                -         -       -       -          -

                                                                      98
C-130 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                             ATTACHMENT 12
                                                     C-130 Requirements
                                                                                                          CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                    2. Core Tasks          3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                     A       B        A     B      C        D         E       A             B               C
                                                                                                            3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                            Level

                                                                     Tng Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier      (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                   5 Level 7 Level
                                                                     Start Comp Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
12.8.2.       Perform Operational Check              *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
12.8.3.       Troubleshoot System                             *                                               -         -       -       -          -
12.8.4.       Remove and Install Assembly                                                                     -         -       -       -          -
12.8.5.       Inspect Components                              *                                               -         -       -       -          -
12.9.         FUSELAGE TANKS
              (BENSON TANKS)
              TR: TO 6J14-7-10-1 Series Job
              Guides
12.9.1.       System Operation                                                                                -         -       -       -          -
12.9.2.       Perform Operational Check              *                                                        -         -       -       -          -
12.9.3.       Troubleshoot System                             *                                               -         -       -       -          -
12.9.4.       Remove and Install Components
12.9.4.1.     Boost Pump                                                                                      -         -       -       -          -
12.9.4.2.     Fuel Level Control Valve                                                                        -         -       -       -          -
12.9.4.3.     Fuel Quantity Probes/Harnesses                                                                  -         -       -       -          -
12.9.4.4.     Sump Drains                                                                                     -         -       -       -          -
12.9.4.5.     Vent System Components                                                                          -         -       -       -          -
12.9.5.       Inspect Components                              *                                               -         -       -       -          -
12.10.        REFUELING PODS
              TR: 6A8-3-1
12.10.1.      System Operation                                                                                -         -       -       -          -
12.10.2.      Troubleshoot System                                                                             -         -       -       -          -
12.10.3.      Remove and Install Components
12.10.3.1.    Surge Suppressor                                                                                -         -       -       -          -
12.10.3.2.    Transmitter                                                                                     -         -       -       -          -
12.10.3.3.    Fuel Counter                                                                                    -         -       -       -          -
12.10.4.      Inspect Components                              *                                               -         -       -       -          -




                                                                      99
C-130 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                             ATTACHMENT 12
                                                       C / KC-135 Requirements
                                                                                                          CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks            3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A      B       C        D         E      A             B               C
                                                                                                           3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                           Level

                                                                   Tng    Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start Comp Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
NOTE 1: This STS is mandatory if trainee is required to maintain the C/KC-135 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.
13.        C / KC-135
13.1.      C-135 AIRCRAFT GENERAL
           TR: TO 1C-135-( )( )-2-5-1
13.1.1.    Perform Periodic Inspections                                                                       -        -       -      -       -
13.1.2.    Apply and Remove External
                                                   *                                                          -        -       -      -       -
           Electrical Power
13.1.3.    Remove, Inspect and Install Fuel
                                                                                                              -        -       -      -       -
           Tubing and Coupling
13.1.4.    Perform aircraft safe for
                                                   *                                                          -        -       -      -       -
           maintenance
13.1.5.    Connect/Disconnect Aircraft
                                                                                                              -        -       -      -       -
           Battery
13.1.6.    Connect/Disconnect APU Battery                                                                     -        -       -      -       -
13.2.      ENGINE FEED/CROSSFEED
           SYSTEM
           TR: TO 1C-135-2-5-( )( )-1
13.2.1.    System Operation                                                                                   -        -       -      -       -
13.2.2.    Perform Operational Check
13.2.2.1. Boost/Override Pump                      *                                                          -        -       -      -       -
13.2.2.2. Firewall Shutoff Valve                   *                                                          -        -       -      -       -
13.2.2.3. Tank To Engine Manifold Valve            *                                                          -        -       -      -       -
13.2.2.4. Pressure Switch                          *                                                          -        -       -      -       -
13.2.3.    Troubleshoot System                             *                                                  -        -       -      -       -
13.2.4.    Remove and Install Components
13.2.4.1. Boost/Override Pump(s)                                                                              -        -       -      -       -
13.2.4.2. Firewall Shutoff Valve                                                                              -        -       -      -       -
13.2.4.3. Tank To Engine Manifold Valve                                                                       -        -       -      -       -
13.2.4.4. Pressure Switch                                                                                     -        -       -      -       -
13.2.4.5. Main Tank Dual Check Valve                                                                          -        -       -      -       -
13.2.4.6. Center Wing Pump Check Valve                                                                        -        -       -      -       -
13.2.5.    Inspect Components                              *                                                  -        -       -      -       -




                                                                     100
C / KC-135 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                      ATTACHMENT 13
                                                       C / KC-135 Requirements
                                                                                                          CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks            3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A      B       C        D         E      A             B               C
                                                                                                           3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                           Level

                                                                   Tng    Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start Comp Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
13.3.      REFUEL AND DEFUEL
           SYSTEM
           TR: TO 1C-135-( )( )-2-5-1,
           1C-135-( )( )-2-5GA-1, and
           1C-135-( )( )-2-5GA-2
13.3.1.    System Operation                                                                                   -        -       -      -       -
13.3.2.    Perform Operational Check
13.3.2.1. Fuel Level Control Valve                 *                                                          -        -       -      -       -
13.3.2.2. #1 Refuel Valve                          *                                                          -        -       -      -       -
13.3.2.3. #2 Refuel Valve                          *                                                          -        -       -      -       -
13.3.2.4. Manual Defuel Valve                      *                                                          -        -       -      -       -
13.3.3.    Troubleshoot system                             *                                                  -        -       -      -       -
13.3.4.    Remove and Install Components
13.3.4.1. Fuel Level Control Valve                                                                            -        -       -      -       -
13.3.4.2. #1 Refuel Valve                                                                                     -        -       -      -       -
13.3.4.3. #2 Refuel Valve                                                                                     -        -       -      -       -
13.3.4.4. Manual Defuel Valve                                                                                 -        -       -      -       -
13.4.3.5. SPR Receptacle/Adapter                                                                              -        -       -      -       -
13.3.4.6. Gravity Drain Line Vapor Seal                                                                       -        -       -      -       -
13.3.4.7. Exterior Fuel Filler Ports                                                                          -        -       -      -       -
13.3.4.8. Flex Couplings                                                                                      -        -       -      -       -
13.3.5.    Inspect Components                              *                                                  -        -       -      -       -
13.4.      TRANSFER AND DUMP
           SYSTEM
           TR: 1C-135-2-5-( )( )-1
13.4.1.    System Operation                                                                                   -        -       -      -       -
13.4.2.    Perform Operational Check
13.4.2.1. Gravity Transfer Valves                  *                                                          -        -       -      -       -
13.4.2.2. Line Valve                               *                                                          -        -       -      -       -
13.4.2.3. Dump Valve                                                                                          -        -       -      -       -
13.4.3.    Troubleshoot System                             *                                                  -        -       -      -       -
13.4.4.    Remove and Install Components
13.4.4.1. Gravity Transfer Valves                                                                             -        -       -      -       -
13.4.4.2. Dump Valve                                                                                          -        -       -      -       -

                                                                     101
C / KC-135 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                      ATTACHMENT 13
                                                       C / KC-135 Requirements
                                                                                                          CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks            3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A      B       C        D         E      A             B               C
                                                                                                           3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                           Level

                                                                   Tng    Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start Comp Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
13.4.4.3. Line Valve                                                                                          -        -       -      -       -
13.4.4.    Inspect Components                              *                                                  -        -       -      -       -
13.5.      AIR REFUELING AND
           RECEIVER SYSTEM
           TR: TO 1C-135-( )( )-2-5JG-7
           THRU 15,
           1C-135-( )( )-2-6JG-8, -11,
           1C-135-( )( )-2-6, 1C-135-2-6,
           and
           1C-135-( ) ( )2-5GA-1
13.5.1.    System Operation                                                                                   -        -       -      -       -
13.5.2.    Perform Operational Check
13.5.2.1. Air Refueling Pump/Motor                 *                                                          -        -       -      -       -
13.5.2.2. Receiver and Scavenge System                                                                        -        -       -      -       -
13.5.2.3. Receiver Checkout (dry)                                                                             -        -       -      -       -
13.5.2.4. Receiver Checkout (wet)                                                                             -        -       -      -       -
13.5.2.5. #7 Valve                                 *                                                          -        -       -      -       -
13.5.3.    Troubleshoot System
13.5.3.1. Receiver and Scavenge System                                                                        -        -       -      -       -
13.5.3.2. Air Refueling Pumps                              *                                                  -        -       -      -       -
13.5.4.    Remove and Install Components
13.5.4.1. Line Valves                                                                                         -        -       -      -       -
13.5.4.2. Fuel Pumps                                                                                          -        -       -      -       -
13.5.4.3. Fuel Pump Motors                                                                                    -        -       -      -       -
13.5.4.4. Fuel Pump check valves                                                                              -        -       -      -       -
13.5.4.5. Float Switch                                                                                        -        -       -      -       -
13.5.4.6. Shutoff Valve                                                                                       -        -       -      -       -
13.5.4.7. #7 Valve                                                                                            -        -       -      -       -
13.5.5.    Inspect Components                              *                                                  -        -       -      -       -
13.6.      PRESSURIZATION AND
           VENT SYSTEM
           TR: TO 1C-135-( )( )-2-5-1,
           1C-135-( )( )-2-5GA-1,
           1C-135-( )( )-2-5JG-5, and
           1C-135-2-5GA-1
13.6.1.    Systems Operation                                                                                  -        -       -      -       -
13.6.2.    Perform Operational Check

                                                                     102
C / KC-135 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                      ATTACHMENT 13
                                                       C / KC-135 Requirements
                                                                                                          CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks            3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A      B       C        D         E      A             B               C
                                                                                                           3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                           Level

                                                                   Tng    Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start Comp Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
13.6.3.    Wing Tank Vent System Leak              *
                                                                                                              -        -       -      -       -
           Test (Positive)
13.6.4.    Troubleshoot System                             *                                                  -        -       -      -       -
13.6.5.    Remove and Install Components
13.6.5.1. Float Arm Valve                                                                                     -        -       -      -       -
13.6.5.2. Float Valve                                                                                         -        -       -      -       -
13.6.5.3. Bulkhead Fittings                                                                                   -        -       -      -       -
13.6.5.4. Surge tank check valves                                                                             -        -       -      -       -
13.6.5.5. Ram Air scoop foam                                                                                  -        -       -      -       -
13.6.5.6. Plenum chamber                                                                                      -        -       -      -       -
13.6.5.7. Ram Air Scoop                                                                                       -        -       -      -       -
13.6.6.    Inspect Components                              *                                                  -        -       -      -       -
13.7.      FUEL QUANTITY
           INDICATING SYSTEM
           TR: 1C-135-2-5GA-1 and
           1C-135-( )( )-2-5-1
13.7.1.    System Operation                                                                                   -        -       -      -       -
13.7.2.    Remove and Install Fuel Probes                                                                     -        -       -      -       -
13.7.3.    Inspect Components                              *                                                  -        -       -      -       -
13.8.      INTEGRAL FUEL TANK
           MAINTENANCE
           TR: 1C-135-2-5-2 and
           1C-135-( )( )-2-5-2
13.8.1.    Integral Tank Construction
                                                                                                              -        -       -      -       -
           Features
13.8.2.    Tank and Access Door Sealing
                                                                                                              -        -       -      -       -
           Methods
13.8.3.    Remove/install tank access door         *                                                          -        -       -      -       -
13.8.4.    Leak Path Analysis                      *                                                          -        -       -      -       -
13.8.5.    Perform High/Low Pressure
                                                                                                              -        -       -      -       -
           Injection Repair
13.9.      BODY TANK VENT SYSTEM
           TR: TO 1C-135-( )( )-2-5-1,
           1C-135-( )( )-2-7GA-1,
           1C-135-( )( )-2-5JG-5 THRU 15,
           1C-135-2-5-1 and 1C-135-2-5-2
13.9.1.    System Operation                                                                                   -        -       -      -       -


                                                                     103
C / KC-135 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                      ATTACHMENT 13
                                                       C / KC-135 Requirements
                                                                                                          CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks            3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A      B       C        D         E      A             B               C
                                                                                                           3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                           Level

                                                                   Tng    Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start Comp Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
13.9.2.    Troubleshoot System                              *                                                 -        -       -      -       -
13.9.3.    Inspect Components                               *                                                 -        -       -      -       -
13.10.     BLADDER CELLS
           TR: 1C-135-2-5-1 and 1C-135-2-
           5-2
13.10.1.   Perform Leak Source Isolation           *                                                          -        -       -      -       -
13.10.2.   Perform Cabin Pressure Checkout         *                                                          -        -       -      -       -
13.10.3.   Identify Cavity Drains                  *                                                          -        -       -      -       -
13.10.4.   Remove and Install Components
13.10.4.1. Body Tank Cells                                                                                    -        -       -      -       -
13.10.4.2. Upper deck cell                                                                                    -        -       -      -       -
13.10.4.3. Center Wing Tank Cells                                                                             -        -       -      -       -
13.10.4.4. Inspect Components                               *                                                 -        -       -      -       -
13.11.     APU FUEL FEED SYSTEMS
           TR: 1C-135-2-5-1, 1C-135-2-16,
           1C-135-( )( )-2-16GA-1,
           1C-135-( )( )-2-5JG-2 and
           1C-135-( )( )-2-5JG-1 thru -5
13.11.1.   System Operation                                                                                   -        -       -      -       -
13.11.2.   Perform Operational Check of
                                                                                                              -        -       -      -       -
           Fuel Pump
13.11.3.   Troubleshoot Fuel Pump                                                                             -        -       -      -       -
13.11.4.   Remove/Install Fuel Pump                                                                           -        -       -      -       -
13.11.5.   Inspect Components                              *                                                  -        -       -      -       -




                                                                     104
C / KC-135 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                      ATTACHMENT 13
This page intentionally left blank.




               105
                                                              E-3 Requirements
                                                                                                           CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A       B        A        B        C        D        E      A             B               C
                                                                                                            3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                            Level

                                                                  Tng      Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)    (1)    (2) (1)            (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start   Comp    Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course         CDC
NOTE 1: This STS is mandatory if trainee is required to maintain the E-3 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.
14.         E-3
14.1.       E-3 AIRCRAFT GENERAL
            TR: TOs 1E-3A-2-1-1 and
            1E-3A-2-28-1, 1E-3A-2-7
14.1.1.     Aircraft Safety Precautions                                                                       -         -       -      -        -
14.1.2.     Apply/Remove External Power           *                                                           -         -       -      -        -
14.1.3.     Remove, Inspect, and Install          *
                                                                                                              -         -       -      -        -
            Fuel Tubing and Couplings
14.1.4.     Perform Aircraft Safe for             *
                                                                                                              -         -       -      -        -
            maintenance
14.1.5.     Transfer fuel between tanks for       *
                                                                                                              -         -       -      -        -
            maintenance
14.1.6.     Disconnect/connect Aircraft           *
                                                                                                              -         -       -      -        -
            Main and Emergency Batteries
14.2.       ENGINE FUEL FEED AND
            CROSSFEED SYSTEMS
            TR: TO 1E-3A-2-28-1, Sect V
14.2.1.     System Operation                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
14.2.2.     Perform Operational Check
14.2.2.1.   Engine Feed/Crossfeed System          *                                                           -         -       -      -        -
14.2.2.2.   Liquid Cooling System                                                                             -         -       -      -        -
14.2.2.3.   Reserve Tank Transfer System          *                                                           -         -       -      -        -
14.2.3.     Troubleshoot System
14.2.3.1.   Engine Feed System                            *                                                   -         -       -      -        -
14.2.3.2.   Liquid Cooling System                         *                                                   -         -       -      -        -
14.2.3.3.   Reserve Tank Transfer System                  *                                                   -         -       -      -        -
14.2.4.     Remove/Install Components
14.2.4.1.   Boost Pump                                                                                        -         -       -      -        -
14.2.4.2.   Override Pump                                                                                     -         -       -      -        -
14.2.4.3.   Engine Fuel Shut-off Valve                                                                        -         -       -      -        -
14.2.4.4.   Engine Crossfeed Valve                                                                            -         -       -      -        -
14.2.4.5.   Dual Check Valve                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
14.2.4.6.   Fuel Low Pressure Switches                                                                        -         -       -      -        -
14.2.4.7.   Liquid Cooling Shut-off Valve                                                                     -         -       -      -        -

                                                                          106
E-3 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                            ATTACHMENT 14
                                                              E-3 Requirements
                                                                                                           CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A       B        A        B        C        D        E      A             B               C
                                                                                                            3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                            Level

                                                                  Tng      Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)    (1)    (2) (1)            (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start   Comp    Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course         CDC
14.2.4.8.   Reserve Tank Transfer Valve                                                                       -         -       -      -        -
14.2.5.     Inspect Components                            *                                                   -         -       -      -        -
14.3.       APU FUEL SYSTEM
            TR: TOs 1E-34-2-28-1 and
            1E-34-2-49
14.3.1.     System Operation                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
14.3.2.     Remove/Install Components
14.3.2.1.   Shut off Valve                                                                                    -         -       -      -        -
14.3.2.2.   Check Valve                                                                                       -         -       -      -        -
14.3.2.3.   Inlet Screen                                                                                      -         -       -      -        -
14.3.3.     Inspect Components                            *                                                   -         -       -      -        -
14.4.       GROUND REFUEL AND
            DEFUEL SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1E-3A-2-28-1, Sect VI
14.4.1.     System Operation                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
14.4.2.     Perform Operational Check
14.4.2.1.   Ground Refueling System               *                                                           -         -       -      -        -
14.4.2.2.   Ground Refuel Precheck                *
                                                                                                              -         -       -      -        -
            System
14.4.2.3.   Ground Defueling System               *                                                           -         -       -      -        -
14.4.3.     Troubleshoot System
14.4.3.1.   Ground Refuel System                          *                                                   -         -       -      -        -
14.4.3.2.   Ground Refuel Precheck                        *
                                                                                                              -         -       -      -        -
            System
14.4.3.3.   Ground Defuel System                          *                                                   -         -       -      -        -
14.4.3.4.   Manifold Coupling Drain                       *
                                                                                                              -         -       -      -        -
            System
14.4.4.     Remove/Install Components
14.4.4.1.   Single Point Receptacle                                                                           -         -       -      -        -
14.4.4.2.   Main Refueling Valve                                                                              -         -       -      -        -
14.4.4.3.   Fuel Level Control Valve              *                                                           -         -       -      -        -
14.4.4.4.   Dual Pilot Valve                      *                                                           -         -       -      -        -
14.4.4.5.   Secondary Float Switch                *                                                           -         -       -      -        -
14.4.4.6.   Defuel Valve                                                                                      -         -       -      -        -
14.4.5.     Inspect Components                            *                                                   -         -       -      -        -

                                                                          107
E-3 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                            ATTACHMENT 14
                                                              E-3 Requirements
                                                                                                           CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A       B        A        B        C        D        E      A             B               C
                                                                                                            3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                            Level

                                                                  Tng      Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)    (1)    (2) (1)            (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start   Comp    Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course         CDC
14.5.       FUEL JETTISON SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1E-3A-2-28-1, Sect
            VII
14.5.1.     System Operation                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
14.5.2.     Perform Operational Check of          *                                                           -         -       -      -        -
            Fuel Jettison Valve(s)
14.5.3.     Troubleshoot System
14.5.3.1.   Fuel Jettison Chute                           *                                                   -         -       -      -        -
14.5.3.2.   Fuel Jettison Valve(s)                        *                                                   -         -       -      -        -
14.5.4.     Remove/Install/Components
14.5.4.1    Fuel Dump Valve(s)                    *                                                           -         -       -      -        -
14.5.4.2    Inspect Fuel Dump Valve(s)                    *                                                   -         -       -      -        -
14.6.       FUEL VENT SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1E-3A-2-28-1, Sect
            VIII
14.6.1.     System Operation                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
14.6.2.     Perform Vent System Leak
                                                                                                              -         -       -      -        -
            Test
14.6.3.     Troubleshoot System                           *                                                   -         -       -      -        -
14.6.4.     Remove/Install Components
14.6.4.1.   Vent Float Valve                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
14.6.4.2.   Vent End Elbow                                                                                    -         -       -      -        -
14.6.4.3.   Ram Air Scoop Panel                                                                               -         -       -      -        -
14.6.4.4.   Surge Tank Drain Check Valve                                                                      -         -       -      -        -
14.6.5.     Inspect Components                            *                                                   -         -       -      -        -
14.7.       AIR REFUELING (A/R)
            RECEIVER SYSTEM
            TR: TOs 1E-3A-2-28-1, Sect
            IX and 6A6-3-3
14.7.1.     System Operation                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
14.7.2.     Perform Operational Check
14.7.2.1.   A/R Receptacle                        *                                                           -         -       -      -        -
14.7.2.2.   A/R Manifold Scavenge
                                                                                                              -         -       -      -        -
            System
14.7.2.3.   A/R Signal System                     *                                                           -         -       -      -        -
14.7.3.     Troubleshoot System

                                                                          108
E-3 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                            ATTACHMENT 14
                                                               E-3 Requirements
                                                                                                           CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A       B        A        B        C        D        E      A             B               C
                                                                                                            3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                            Level

                                                                  Tng      Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)    (1)    (2) (1)            (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start   Comp    Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course         CDC
14.7.3.1.   A/R Receptacle                                *                                                   -         -       -      -        -
14.7.3.2.   A/R Manifold Scavenge
                                                                                                              -         -       -      -        -
            System
14.7.3.3.   A/R Signal System                             *                                                   -         -       -      -        -
14.7.3.4.   A/R Manifold Drain System                     *                                                   -         -       -      -        -
14.7.4.     Remove/Install Components
14.7.4.1.   Induction Coil                                                                                    -         -       -      -        -
14.7.4.2.   Sliding Valve Assembly                *                                                           -         -       -      -        -
14.7.4.3.   Pressure Disconnect Switch                                                                        -         -       -      -        -
14.7.4.4.   Manifold Scavenge Check
                                                                                                              -         -       -      -        -
            Valve Assembly
14.7.4.5.   A/R Receptacle Assembly                                                                           -         -       -      -        -
14.7.5.     Inspect Components                            *                                                   -         -       -      -        -
14.8.       FUEL QUANTITY
            INDICATING SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1E-3A-2-28-1, Sect X
            and 1E-3A-2-28-1-1
14.8.1.     System Operation                                                                                  -         -       -      -        -
14.8.2.     Remove/Install Components
14.8.2.1.   Probe and compensator                 *                                                           -         -       -      -        -
14.8.2.2.   Wire harness                          *                                                           -         -       -      -        -
14.8.2.3.   Fuel drip stick                                                                                   -         -       -      -        -
14.8.3.     Inspect Components                            *                                                   -         -       -      -        -
14.9.       INTEGRAL WING TANKS
            TR: TO 1E-3A-2-28-1, Sect
            X
14.9.1.     Perform Center Wing Leak
                                                                                                              -         -       -      -        -
            Isolation Procedures
14.9.2.     Perform Positive Pressure Test        *
                                                                                                              -         -       -      -        -
            on Integral Tanks
14.9.3.     Remove/Install Tank Drains            *                                                           -         -       -      -        -
14.9.4.     Inspect Components                             *                                                  -         -       -      -        -
14.10.      FUEL CELLS
            TR: TO 1E-3A-2-28-1, Sect III
14.10.1.    Perform Cavity Drain System
                                                                                                              -         -       -      -        -
            Leak Isolation


                                                                          109
E-3 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                            ATTACHMENT 14
                                                            E-4 Requirements
                                                                                                             CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                             4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                             Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A         B       C        D         E      A             B               C
                                                                                                              3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                              Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
NOTE 1: This STS is mandatory if trainee is required to maintain the E-4 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.
15.         E-4
15.1.       E-4 AIRCRAFT GENERAL
            TR: TO 1E-4B-2-28-00-00 and
            1E4B-2-28-11-00
15.1.1.     Aircraft Safety Precautions                                                                         -        -         -      -       -
15.1.2.     Apply/Remove External Power                                                                         -        -         -      -       -
15.1.3.     Remove, Inspect, and Install Fuel
                                                                                                                -        -         -      -       -
            Tubing and Couplings
15.1.4.     Perform Aircraft safe for              *
                                                                                                                -        -         -      -       -
            maintenance
15.2.       ENGINE FEED/CROSS FEED
            SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1E-4B-2-28-22-00
15.2.1.     System Operation                                                                                    -        -         -      -       -
15.2.2.     Perform Operational Check
15.2.2.1.   Boost Pumps                            *                                                            -        -         -      -       -
15.2.2.2.   Shutoff Valves                         *                                                            -        -         -      -       -
15.2.3.     Troubleshoot System                             *                                                   -        -         -      -       -
15.2.4.     Remove/Install Components
15.2.4.1.   Boost Pumps                                                                                         -        -         -      -       -
15.2.4.2.   Shutoff Valves                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
15.2.4.3.   Shutoff Valve Actuators                                                                             -        -         -      -       -
15.2.5.     Inspect Components                              *                                                   -        -         -      -       -
15.3.       REFUEL AND DEFUEL
            SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1E-4B-2-28-21-00 and
            1E-4B-2-28-26-00
15.3.1.     System Operation                                                                                    -        -         -      -       -
15.3.2.     Perform Operational Check
15.3.2.1.   Fuel Control Valves                    *                                                            -        -         -      -       -
15.3.2.2.   Manifold Valves                        *                                                            -        -         -      -       -
15.3.3.     Troubleshoot System                             *                                                   -        -         -      -       -
15.3.4.     Remove/Install Components
15.3.4.1.   Fuel Control Valves                                                                                 -        -         -      -       -


                                                                        110
E-4 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                         ATTACHMENT 15
                                                            E-4 Requirements
                                                                                                             CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                             4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                             Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A         B       C        D         E      A             B               C
                                                                                                              3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                              Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
15.3.4.2.   Manifold Valves                                                                                     -        -         -      -       -
15.3.5.     Inspect Components                              *                                                   -        -         -      -       -
15.4.       TRANSFER SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1E-4B-2-28-16-00
15.4.1.     System Operation                                                                                    -        -         -      -       -
15.4.2.     Perform Operational Check
15.4.2.1.   Transfer Valves                        *                                                            -        -         -      -       -
15.4.2.2.   Operate Pumps                          *                                                            -        -         -      -       -
15.4.3.     Troubleshoot System                             *                                                   -        -         -      -       -
15.4.4.     Remove/Install Components
15.4.4.1.   Transfer Valves                                                                                     -        -         -      -       -
15.4.4.2.   Transfer Valve Actuators                                                                            -        -         -      -       -
15.4.4.3.   Pumps                                                                                               -        -         -      -       -
15.4.5.     Inspect Components                              *                                                   -        -         -      -       -
15.5.       AIR REFUELING RECEIVER
            SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1E-4B-2-28-23-00
15.5.1.     System Operation                                                                                    -        -         -      -       -
15.5.2.     Remove/Install Overboard
                                                                                                                -        -         -      -       -
            Manifold Drain Couplings
15.5.3.     Inspect Components                              *                                                   -        -         -      -       -
15.6.       PRESSURIZATION AND
            VENT SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1E-4B-2-28-13-00
15.6.1.     System Operation                                                                                    -        -         -      -       -
15.6.2.     Perform Operational Check              *                                                            -        -         -      -       -
15.6.3.     Troubleshoot System                             *                                                   -        -         -      -       -
15.6.4.     Remove/Install Components
15.6.4.1.   Float Valve                                                                                         -        -         -      -       -
15.6.4.2.   Vent Valve                                                                                          -        -         -      -       -
15.6.4.3.   Surge Tank Check Valve                                                                              -        -         -      -       -
15.6.5.     Inspect Components                              *                                                   -        -         -      -       -
15.7.       JETTISON SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1E-4B-2-28-31-00
15.7.1.     System Operation                                                                                    -        -         -      -       -
                                                                        111
E-4 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                         ATTACHMENT 15
                                                            E-4 Requirements
                                                                                                             CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                             4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                             Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A         B       C        D         E      A             B               C
                                                                                                              3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                              Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
15.7.2.     Perform Operational Check              *                                                            -        -         -      -       -
15.7.3.     Troubleshoot System                             *                                                   -        -         -      -       -
15.7.4.     Remove/Install Components
15.7.4.1.   Actuators                                                                                           -        -         -      -       -
15.7.4.2.   Valves                                                                                              -        -         -      -       -
15.7.4.3.   Pumps                                                                                               -        -         -      -       -
15.7.5.     Inspect Components                              *                                                   -        -         -      -       -
15.8.       APU FUEL SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1E-4B-2-28-25-00 and
            1E-4B-2-49
15.8.1.     System Operation                                                                                    -        -         -      -       -
15.8.2.     Perform Operational Check                                                                           -        -         -      -       -
15.8.3.     Troubleshoot System                             *                                                   -        -         -      -       -
15.8.4.     Remove/Install Components
15.8.4.1.   Pump                                                                                                -        -         -      -       -
15.8.4.2.   Housing                                                                                             -        -         -      -       -
15.8.4.3.   Shrouds                                                                                             -        -         -      -       -
15.8.4.4.   Lighting Arrestor                                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
15.8.5.     Inspect Components                              *                                                   -        -         -      -       -
15.9.       SCAVENGE SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1E-4B-2-28-15-00
15.9.1.     System Operation                                                                                    -        -         -      -       -
15.9.2.     Perform Operational Check
15.9.2.1.   Center Wing Tank Scavenge              *
                                                                                                                -        -         -      -       -
            System
15.9.2.2.   ARR Manifold Scavenge System           *                                                            -        -         -      -       -
15.9.3.     Troubleshoot System
15.9.3.1.   Center Wing Tank Scavenge                       *
                                                                                                                -        -         -      -       -
            System
15.9.3.2.   ARR Manifold Scavenge System                    *                                                   -        -         -      -       -
15.9.4.     Remove/Install Components
15.9.4.1.   Actuators                                                                                           -        -         -      -       -
15.9.4.2.   Valves                                                                                              -        -         -      -       -
15.9.4.3.   Pumps                                                                                               -        -         -      -       -

                                                                        112
E-4 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                         ATTACHMENT 15
                                                            E-4 Requirements
                                                                                                             CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                             4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                             Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                   A       B        A         B       C        D         E      A             B               C
                                                                                                              3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                              Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
15.9.5.     Inspect Components                              *                                                   -        -         -      -       -
15.10.      FUEL QUANTITY
            INDICATING SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1E-4B-2-28-41-00
15.10.1.    Remove Probes                                                                                       -        -         -      -       -
15.10.2.    Install Probes                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
15.10.3.    Inspect Components                              *                                                   -        -         -      -       -
15.11.      INTEGRAL WING TANKS
            TR: TO 1E-4B-2-28-11-00
15.11.1.    Perform Injection Repair of                                                                         -        -         -      -       -
            Wing Tanks
15.11.2.    Remove/Install Tank Drains                                                                          -        -         -      -       -
15.11.3.    Perform Positive Pressure Test         *
            on                                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
            Integral Tanks




                                                                        113
E-4 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                         ATTACHMENT 15
                                                            F-15 Requirements
                                                                                                                 CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A       B        A            B       C        D           E       A             B               C
                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                   Level

                                                                  Tng       Tng Trainee Trainer            Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start    Comp Initials Initials           Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
NOTE 1: This STS is mandatory if trainee is required to maintain the F-15 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.
16.         F-15
16.1.       F-15 AIRCRAFT GENERAL
            TR: TO 1F-15-( )-2-28 GS,
            1F-15-( )-05JG-00-1,
            1F 15-( )-2-28 JG series
16.1.1.     Safety Precautions                                                                                        -        -        -      -       -
16.1.2.     Safe for Maintenance                  *                                                                   -        -        -      -       -
16.1.3.     Apply/Remove External Power           *                                                                   -        -        -      -       -
16.1.4.     Remove, Inspect, and Install
                                                  *                                                                   -        -        -      -       -
            Fuel Tubing and Couplings
16.1.5.     Remove/Install Aircraft Panels                                                                            -        -        -      -       -
16.2.       ENGINE FUEL SUPPLY
            DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS
            TR: TO 1F-15-( )-2-28GS-00-
            1,
            and 1F-15-( )-2-28JG
            for 1F-15-( )-2-73JG
            Task 6J14-5-19-3, 6J12-19-3
16.2.1.     System Operation                                                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.2.2.     Perform Operational Checks            *                                                                   -        -        -      -       -
16.2.3.     Troubleshoot System                            *                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.2.4.     Remove/Install Components
16.2.4.1.   Fuel Oil Heat Exchangers                                                                                  -        -        -      -       -
            (FOHE)
16.2.4.2.   Engine to Airframe Manifolds          *                                                                   -        -        -      -       -
16.2.4.3.   Fuel Flow Transmitters                *                                                                   -        -        -      -       -
16.2.4.4.   Externally Mounted Boost
                                                                                                                      -        -        -      -       -
            Pumps/
16.2.4.5.   Externally Mounted Boost
                                                                                                                      -        -        -      -       -
            Pumps Pressure Switches
16.2.4.6.   Emergency Boost
                                                                                                                      -        -        -      -       -
            Pump/Switches
16.2.4.7.   Engine Fuel Shutoff
                                                                                                                      -        -        -      -       -
            Valves/Switches
16.2.4.8.   Crossfeed Valve                                                                                           -        -        -      -       -
16.2.5.     Rebuild Engine to Airframe
                                                  *                                                                   -        -        -      -       -
            Manifolds


                                                                          114
F-15 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                     ATTACHMENT 16
                                                            F-15 Requirements
                                                                                                                 CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A       B        A            B       C        D           E       A             B               C
                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                   Level

                                                                  Tng       Tng Trainee Trainer            Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start    Comp Initials Initials           Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
16.2.6.     Inspect Components                             *                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.3.       FUEL TEMPERATURE AND
            PRESSURE INDICATING
            SYSTEM
            TR: Applicable Aircraft TOs
            1F-15-( )-2-28GS-00-1 and
            1F-15-2-28JG
16.3.1.     System Operation                                                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.3.2.     Perform Operational Check             *                                                                   -        -        -      -       -
16.3.3.     Troubleshoot System                            *                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.3.4.     Remove/Install Components
16.3.4.1.   Hot Fuel Recirculation Valves                                                                             -        -        -      -       -
16.3.4.2.   Temperature Switches                                                                                      -        -        -      -       -
16.3.5.     Inspect Components                             *                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.4.       FUEL DUMP SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1F-15-( )-2-28GS-
            00-1 and 1F-15-( )-2-28JG
16.4.1.     System Operation                                                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.4.2.     Perform Operational Check             *                                                                   -        -        -      -       -
16.4.3.     Troubleshoot System                            *                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.4.4.     Remove/Install Components
16.4.4.1.   Dump Valve Actuator                                                                                       -        -        -      -       -
16.4.4.2.   Dump valve body                                                                                           -        -        -      -       -
16.4.4.3.   Flame Arrestors                                                                                           -        -        -      -       -
16.4.5.     Inspect Components                             *                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.5.       INTERNAL TRANSFER
            DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1F-15-( )-2-28GS-00-
            1 and appropriate 1F-15-( )-2-
            28JG for Task
16.5.1.     System Operation                                                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.5.2.     Perform Operational Checks            *                                                                   -        -        -      -       -
16.5.3.     Troubleshoot System                            *                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.5.4.     Remove/Install Components
16.5.4.1.   Fuel Ejector Pumps                                                                                        -        -        -      -       -
16.5.4.2.   Wing Transfer Pumps                                                                                       -        -        -      -       -


                                                                          115
F-15 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                     ATTACHMENT 16
                                                            F-15 Requirements
                                                                                                                 CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A       B        A            B       C        D           E       A             B               C
                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                   Level

                                                                  Tng       Tng Trainee Trainer            Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start    Comp Initials Initials           Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
16.5.4.3.   #1 Transfer Pump                                                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.5.4.4.   Current Monitor                                                                                           -        -        -      -       -
16.5.4.5.   Gravity Transfer Interconnect
                                                                                                                      -        -        -      -       -
            Valves
16.5.4.6.   Pylon To Aircraft Fuel
                                                                                                                      -        -        -      -       -
            Disconnect
16.5.5.     Inspect Components                             *                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.6.       GROUND REFUELING AND
            DEFUELING SYSTEMS
            TR: TO 1F-15-( )-2-28GS-00-
            1 and 1F-15-( )-2-28JG
16.6.1.     System Operation                                                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.6.2.     Perform Operational Checks
16.6.2.1.   With Refuel Trucks                    *                                                                   -        -        -      -       -
16.6.2.2.   With Transfer Hose                                                                                        -        -        -      -       -
16.6.2.3.   Over Pressurization Protection
                                                                                                                      -        -        -      -       -
            Shutoff Valve
16.6.3.     Troubleshoot System                            *                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.6.4.     Remove/Install Components
16.6.4.1.   Fuel Pressure Relief Valves                                                                               -        -        -      -       -
16.6.4.2.   Recovery Drain Valves                                                                                     -        -        -      -       -
16.6.4.3.   Ground Refuel/Defuel
                                                                                                                      -        -        -      -       -
            Receptacles
16.6.4.4.   Refuel/Transfer Level Control
                                                                                                                      -        -        -      -       -
            Pilot Valves
16.6.4.5.   Refuel/Transfer Shutoff Valves                                                                            -        -        -      -       -
16.6.5.     Inspect Components                             *                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.7.       AIR REFUELING (A/R)
            RECEIVER SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1F-15-( )-2-28GS-00-
            1 and 1F-15-( )-2-28JG
16.7.1.     System Operation                                                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.7.2.     Perform Operational Check             *                                                                   -        -        -      -       -
16.7.3.     Troubleshoot System                            *                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.7.4.     Remove/Install Components
16.7.4.1.   A/R Receptacle                                                                                            -        -        -      -       -

                                                                          116
F-15 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                     ATTACHMENT 16
                                                            F-15 Requirements
                                                                                                                 CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A       B        A            B       C        D           E       A             B               C
                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                   Level

                                                                  Tng       Tng Trainee Trainer            Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start    Comp Initials Initials           Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
16.7.4.2.   A/R Check Valve Assembly                                                                                  -        -        -      -       -
16.7.4.3.   FWD and AFT Slipway Doors                                                                                 -        -        -      -       -
16.7.4.4.   A/R Pressure Switch                                                                                       -        -        -      -       -
16.7.5.     Inspect Components                             *                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.8.       PRESSURIZATION AND
            VENT DISTRIBUTION
            SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1F-15-( )-2-28GS-00-
            1 and 1F-15-( )-2-28JG
16.8.1.     System Operation                                                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.8.2.     Perform Operational Check
16.8.2.1.   During Engine Run                     *                                                                   -        -        -      -       -
16.8.2.2.   Ground Air Source                     *                                                                   -        -        -      -       -
16.8.3.     Troubleshoot System                            *                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.8.4.     Remove/Install Components
16.8.4.1.   Dive Vent Check Valves                                                                                    -        -        -      -       -
16.8.4.2.   Air Pressure Regulator                                                                                    -        -        -      -       -
16.8.4.3.   Fuel Pressurization Shutoff                                                                               -        -        -      -       -
            Valves
16.8.4.4.   Pressure Relief and Vent
                                                                                                                      -        -        -      -       -
            Valves
16.8.4.5.   Ram Air Inlet Control Valve                                                                               -        -        -      -       -
16.8.4.6.   Pylon to Aircraft Air
                                                                                                                      -        -        -      -       -
            Disconnect
16.8.4.7.   Hot Air Check Valves                                                                                      -        -        -      -       -
16.8.5.     Inspect Components                             *                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.9.       FUEL QUANTITY
            INDICATING SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1F-15-( )-2-28GS-00-
            1 and 1F-15-( )-2-28JG
16.9.1.     System Operation                                                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.9.2.     Remove/Install Fuel Quantity
                                                  *                                                                   -        -        -      -       -
            Units
16.9.3.     Inspect Components                             *                                                          -        -        -      -       -




                                                                          117
F-15 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                     ATTACHMENT 16
                                                            F-15 Requirements
                                                                                                                 CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A       B        A            B       C        D           E       A             B               C
                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                   Level

                                                                  Tng       Tng Trainee Trainer            Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start    Comp Initials Initials           Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
16.10.      EXTERNAL FUEL TANK
            MAINTENANCE
            TR: 6J14-5-11-3-1, 6J14-2-34-
            3
16.10.1.    Perform Certification Checks          *                                                                   -        -        -      -       -
16.10.2.    Troubleshoot                                   *                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.10.3.    Remove and Install
                                                                                                                      -        -        -      -       -
            Components
16.10.4.    Pressure Check External Tanks         *                                                                   -        -        -      -       -
16.10.5.    Denest External Fuel Tank
                                                                                                                      -        -        -      -       -
            Canisters
16.10.6.    Perform External Fuel Tank
                                                                                                                      -        -        -      -       -
            Build-up Procedures
16.10.7.    Inspect Tank and Components                    *                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.11.      F-15 PYLON
            MAINTENANCE
            TR: TO 16W6-25-3
16.11.1.    System Operation                                                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.11.2.    Perform Leak Test                                                                                         -        -        -      -       -
16.11.3.    Troubleshoot                                   *                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.11.4.    Remove/Install Components
16.11.4.1. Stand Pipes                            *                                                                   -        -        -      -       -
16.11.4.2. Air Pressure Regulators                *                                                                   -        -        -      -       -
16.11.4.3. Pressure and Vent Valves               *                                                                   -        -        -      -       -
16.11.4.4. Hot Air Check Valves                   *                                                                   -        -        -      -       -
16.11.5.    Inspect Components                             *                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.12.      CONFORMAL FUEL TANK
            (CFT)
            TR: TO 1F-15E-28GS-00-1,
            (28-22-00), and 6J14-5-11-3-1
16.12.1.    System Operation                                                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.12.2.    Perform Operational Check             *                                                                   -        -        -      -       -
16.12.3.    Troubleshoot                                   *                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.12.4.    Remove/Install Components
16.12.4.1. Flame Arrestor                                                                                             -        -        -      -       -
16.12.4.2. Dive Vent Check Valves                                                                                     -        -        -      -       -
16.12.4.3. Pressure Relief and Vent Valve                                                                             -        -        -      -       -
                                                                          118
F-15 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                     ATTACHMENT 16
                                                              F-15 Requirements
                                                                                                                 CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A       B        A            B       C        D           E       A             B               C
                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                   Level

                                                                  Tng       Tng Trainee Trainer            Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start    Comp Initials Initials           Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
16.12.4.4. Ram Air Control Valve                                                                                      -        -        -      -       -
16.12.4.5. Fuel Quantity Units                                                                                        -        -        -      -       -
16.12.4.6. Defuel Receptacle                                                                                          -        -        -      -       -
16.12.4.7. Transfer Pumps                                                                                             -        -        -      -       -
16.12.4.8. Ejector Pump                                                                                               -        -        -      -       -
16.12.4.9. Refuel Level Control Valve                                                                                 -        -        -      -       -
16.12.4.10. Float Switch                                                                                              -        -        -      -       -
16.12.4.11. Stand Pipe                                                                                                -        -        -      -       -
16.12.5.    Inspect Tank and Components                   *                                                           -        -        -      -       -
16.12.6.    Operate, Inspect and maintain
                                                                                                                      -        -        -      -       -
            Conformal Tank Certifier
16.13.      FUEL STORAGE SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1F-15-( )-2-28GS-00-
            1,
            1-1-692, 1F-15-( )-2-28JG 1-1-
            3, and 1F-15-( )-3-5
16.13.1.    Identify Fuselage Cavity Drains       *                                                                   -        -        -      -       -
16.13.2.    Perform Injection Repair of           *
                                                                                                                      -        -        -      -       -
            Wing Tanks




                                                                          119
F-15 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                     ATTACHMENT 16
                                                            F-16 Requirements
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A       B        A        B           C         D        E      A             B                C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                Level

                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start    Comp      Initials   Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
NOTE 1: This STS is mandatory if trainee is required to maintain the F-16 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.
17.         F-16
17.1.       F-16 AIRCRAFT GENERAL
            TR: TO 1F-16-( )-2-28GS-00-
            2,
            1F-16( )-6, 1F-16( )-2-53JG,
            1F-16( )-2-54, 1F-16( )-2-28JG
17.1.1.     Perform Aircraft Safe for             *
                                                                                                                   -        -        -      -         -
            Maintenance
17.1.2.     Safety Precautions                                                                                     -        -        -      -         -
17.1.3.     Apply/Remove External Power           *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.1.4.     Apply Hydraulic Power                                                                                  -        -        -      -         -
17.1.5.     Apply Cooling Air                     *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.1.6.     Remove/Install Access Panels           *                                                               -        -        -      -         -
17.1.7.     Remove, Install, and Inspect
                                                                                                                   -        -        -      -         -
            Fuel Tubing and Couplings
17.2.       ENGINE FEED AND
            CROSSFEED SYSTEMS
            TR: TO 1F-16-( )-2-28FI-00-
            1,
            1F-16-( )-2-28GS-00-2, and
            1F-16-( )-2-28JG
17.2.1.     System Operation                                                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.2.2.     Perform Operational Check
17.2.2.1.   Advisory Light Panel                  *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.2.2.2.   Fuel Flow Proportioner                *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.2.2.3.   Fuel/Oil Heat Exchanger               *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.2.2.4.   Crossfeed Valve                       *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.2.2.5.   Fuel Flow Divider                     *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.2.2.6.   Boost Pumps                           *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.2.2.7.   Boost Pump Pressure Switches          *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.2.2.8.   Main Fuel Shut Off Valve              *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.2.2.9.   Thermal Bypass Valve                  *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.2.2.10. IDG/ADG By-Pass valve
17.2.3.     Troubleshoot System                            *                                                       -        -        -      -         -



                                                                          120
F-16 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                 ATTACHMENT 17
                                                            F-16 Requirements
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A       B        A        B           C         D        E      A             B                C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                Level

                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start    Comp      Initials   Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
17.2.4.     Remove and Install
            Components
17.2.4.1.   Fuel Flow Proportioner                                                                                 -        -        -      -         -
17.2.4.2.   Fuel/Oil Heat Exchanger                                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.2.4.3.   Crossfeed Valve                                                                                        -        -        -      -         -
17.2.4.4.   Fuel Flow Divider                                                                                      -        -        -      -         -
17.2.4.5.   Boost Pumps                                                                                            -        -        -      -         -
17.2.4.6.   Boost Pump Pressure Switches                                                                           -        -        -      -         -
17.2.4.7.   Fuel Flow Transmitter                                                                                  -        -        -      -         -
17.2.4.8.   Fuel Temp switch                                                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.2.4.9.   Main Fuel Shut-off Valve                                                                               -        -        -      -         -
17.2.4.10. Fuel Flow Proportioner
                                                                                                                   -        -        -      -         -
           Hydraulic Motor
17.2.4.11. Thermal Bypass Valve                                                                                    -        -        -      -         -
17.2.5.     IDG/ADG By-Pass valve                                                                                  -        -        -      -         -
17.2.6.     Jet Fuel Starter By-pass valve                                                                         -        -        -      -         -
17.2.7.     Jet Fuel Starter Filter                                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.2.8.     Inspect Components                             *                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.3.       TRANSFER SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1F-16-( )-2-28FI-00-
            1,
            1F-16-( )-2-28GS-00-2, and
            1F-16-( )-2-28JG
17.3.1.     System Operation                                                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.3.2.     Perform Operational Check
17.3.2.1.   Fuel Ejector Pumps                    *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.3.2.2.   Transfer Pumps                        *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.3.2.3.   Pressure Switches                     *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.3.2.4.   Turbine Pumps                         *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.3.2.5.   Forward Transfer Trim                 *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.3.2.6.   Air Ejector Pump                      *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.3.2.7.   Transfer Override control
                                                                                                                   -        -        -      -         -
            switch
17.3.3.     Troubleshoot System                            *                                                       -        -        -      -         -


                                                                          121
F-16 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                 ATTACHMENT 17
                                                            F-16 Requirements
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A       B        A        B           C         D        E      A             B                C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                Level

                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start    Comp      Initials   Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
17.3.4.     Remove and Install
            Components
17.3.4.1.   Fuel Ejector Pump                                                                                      -        -        -      -         -
17.3.4.2.   Transfer Pump                                                                                          -        -        -      -         -
17.3.4.3.   Pressure Switches                                                                                      -        -        -      -         -
17.3.4.4.   Turbine Pumps                                                                                          -        -        -      -         -
17.3.4.5.   Forward Transfer Trim Valve                                                                            -        -        -      -         -
17.3.4.6.   Air Ejector Pump                                                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.3.4.7.   Transfer Override control
                                                                                                                   -        -        -      -         -
            switch
17.3.5.     Inspect Components                             *                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.4.       GROUND REFUELING/
            DEFUELING SYSTEMS
            TR: TO 1F-16-( )-2-28FI-00-
            1,
            1F-16-( )-2-28GS-00-2, and
            1F-16-( )-2-28JG
17.4.1.     System Operation                                                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.4.2.     Perform Operational Check
17.4.2.1.   Shutoff Valves                        *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.4.2.2.   Shuttle Valves                        *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.4.2.3.   Wing Float Valve                      *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.4.2.4.   Refueling Spools                      *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.4.3.     Troubleshoot System                            *                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.4.4.     Remove and Install
            Components
17.4.4.1.   Shutoff Valves                                                                                         -        -        -      -         -
17.4.4.2.   Shuttle Valves                                                                                         -        -        -      -         -
17.4.4.3.   Wing Float Valve                                                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.4.4.4.   Single Point Receptacle                                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.4.4.5.   Refueling Spools                                                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.4.5.     Inspect Components                             *                                                       -        -        -      -         -




                                                                          122
F-16 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                 ATTACHMENT 17
                                                            F-16 Requirements
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A       B        A        B           C         D        E      A             B                C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                Level

                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start    Comp      Initials   Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
17.5.       AIR REFUELING
            RECEIVER SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1F-16-( )-2-28FI-00-
            1
            1F-16-( )-2-28GS-00-2, and
            1F-16-( )-2-28JG
17.5.1.     System Operation                                                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.5.2.     Perform Operational Check             *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.5.3.     Troubleshoot System                            *                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.5.4.     Remove/Install Components                                                                              -        -        -      -         -
17.5.4.1.   IFR Slipway Door                                                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.5.4.2.   IFR Assembly                                                                                           -        -        -      -         -
17.5.4.3.   IFR pressure switch                                                                                    -        -        -      -         -
17.5.4.4.   IFR Poppet/Slipper Seal                                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.5.5.     Inspect Components                             *                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.6.       PRESSURIZATION/VENT
            SYSTEM
            TR:
            TO 1F-16-( )-2-28FI-00-1,
            1F-16-( )-2-28GS-00-2, and
            1F-16-( )-2-28JG
17.6.1.     System Operation                                                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.6.2.     Perform Operational Check
17.6.2.1.   Internal Vent/Pressure Valve          *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.6.2.2.   External Vent/Pressure Valve          *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.6.2.3.   Remote Sensing Pressure Relief        *
                                                                                                                   -        -        -      -         -
            Valve
17.6.2.4.   Negative Pressure Relief Valve        *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.6.3.     Troubleshoot System                            *                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.6.4.     Remove/Install Components
17.6.4.1.   Internal Vent/Pressure Valve                                                                           -        -        -      -         -
17.6.4.2.   External Vent/Pressure Valve                                                                           -        -        -      -         -
17.6.4.3.   Remote Sensing Pressure Relief
                                                                                                                   -        -        -      -         -
            Valve
17.6.4.4.   Negative Pressure Relief Valve                                                                         -        -        -      -         -
17.6.4.5.   Manual Depressurization Valve                                                                          -        -        -      -         -


                                                                          123
F-16 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                 ATTACHMENT 17
                                                            F-16 Requirements
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A       B        A        B           C         D        E      A             B                C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                Level

                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start    Comp      Initials   Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
17.6.5.     Inspect Components                             *                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.7.       FUEL QUANTITY
            INDICATING SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1F-16-( )-2-28GS-00-
            2,
            and 1F-16-( )-2-28JG
17.7.1.     System Operation                                                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.7.2.     Remove and Install
            Components
17.7.2.1.   Probes                                                                                                 -        -        -      -         -
17.7.2.2.   Harnesses                                                                                              -        -        -      -         -
17.7.3.     Inspect Components                             *                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.8.       HYDRAZINE (H-70)
            MAINTENANCE,
            EMERGENCY POWER
            UNIT (EPU)
            TR: TO 1F-16-2-49GS-00-1,
            1F-16-2-49FI-00-1, and
            1F-16-2-49JG
17.8.1.     Perform EPU Purge                     *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.8.2.     Depressurize EPU System               *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.8.3.     Refurbish EPU System                  *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.8.4.     Remove/Install
17.8.4.1    Decomposition Chamber                                                                                  -        -        -      -         -
17.8.4.2    H-70 Tank                             *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.8.5.     Nitrogen Control Valve                                                                                 -        -        -      -         -
17.8.6.     EPU Heat exchanger                                                                                     -        -        -      -         -
17.8.7.     Service H-70 Tank                                                                                      -        -        -      -         -
17.8.8.     Refurbish H-70 Tank                                                                                    -        -        -      -         -
17.8.9.     Perform H-70 Spill Clean-up
            Procedures
17.8.9.1.   Response Team Member                  *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.8.9.2.   Response Team Supervisor                       *                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.8.10.    Use, Inspect, and Clean H-70
            Personal Protective Equipment
17.8.10.1. Self-contained Breathing               *
                                                                                                                   -        -        -      -         -
           Apparatus



                                                                          124
F-16 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                 ATTACHMENT 17
                                                            F-16 Requirements
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A       B        A        B           C         D        E      A             B                C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                Level

                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start    Comp      Initials   Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
17.8.10.2. Protective Suit, Gloves, and           *
                                                                                                                   -        -        -      -         -
           Boots
17.8.11.    Operate, Use, and Inspect H-70
            Support Equipment
17.8.11.1. Toxic Level Detectors                  *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.8.11.2. Litmus Paper                                                                                            -        -        -      -         -
17.8.11.3. Vent Scrubber                                                                                           -        -        -      -         -
17.8.11.4. Tank Sling Assembly                     *                                                               -        -        -      -         -
17.8.11.5. EPU Nitrogen Purging Adapter                                                                            -        -        -      -         -
17.8.11.6. Depth Micrometer                                                                                        -        -        -      -         -
17.8.11.7. Tank
           Shipping/Storage/Handling                                                                               -        -        -      -         -
           Container
17.8.12.    Purge Mono-propellant Tester                                                                           -        -        -      -         -
17.9.       AME/WRM EXTERNAL
            FUEL TANK
            MAINTENANCE
            TR: TO 6J-14-2-40-2,
            6J-14-2-39-1, and 6J-14-2-40-
            1
17.9.1.     Perform Certification Checks
17.9.1.1.   370 Gallon Tanks                      *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.9.1.2.   300 Gallon Tanks                      *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.9.2.     Troubleshoot External Fuel
            Tanks
17.9.2.1.   370 Gallon Tanks                               *                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.9.2.2.   300 Gallon Tanks                               *                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.9.3.     Remove and Install 370 Gallon
                                                                                                                   -        -        -      -         -
            Tank Components
17.9.4.     Remove and Install 300 Gallon
                                                                                                                   -        -        -      -         -
            Tank Components
17.9.5.     Inspect Tank and Components
17.9.5.1.   370 Gallon Tanks                               *                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.9.5.2.   300 Gallon Tanks                               *                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.9.6.     Perform –6 Pylon Inspection                    *                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.9.7.     Pressure Check Removed
            External Tanks

                                                                          125
F-16 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                 ATTACHMENT 17
                                                              F-16 Requirements
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A       B        A        B           C         D        E      A             B                C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                Level

                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start    Comp      Initials   Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
17.9.7.1.   370 Gallon Tanks                                                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.9.7.2.   300 Gallon Tanks                                                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.9.8.     Denest External Fuel Tank
            Canisters
17.9.8.1.   370 Gallon Tanks                                                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.9.8.2.   300 Gallon Tanks                                                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.9.9.     Perform External Fuel Tank
            Build-up Procedures
17.9.9.1.   370 Gallon Tanks                                                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.9.9.2.   300 Gallon Tanks                                                                                       -        -        -      -         -
17.9.10.    Operate, Use and Inspect 370
                                                                                                                   -        -        -      -         -
            Tank Pylon Electrical Tester
17.10.      INTEGRAL FUEL TANK
            MAINTENANCE
            TR: TO 1F-16-( )–3-1 and 1-
            1-3
17.10.1.    Perform Leak Check/Test of
            Integral Tanks
17.10.1.1. Air Test                               *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.10.1.2. Fuel Test                              *                                                                -        -        -      -         -
17.11.     WING ATTACHMENT
           FITTINGS (Finger Braces)
           TR: TO 1F-16-( )–3-5, and
           1F-16-( )-3-1
17.11.1.   Remove/Install Wing Attach
           Fittings (finger braces)
17.11.1.1. Upper Attach Fittings (finger
                                                                                                                   -        -        -      -         -
           braces)
17.11.1.2. Lower Attach Fittings (finger
                                                                                                                   -        -        -      -         -
           braces)
17.11.2.    Identify Negligible/Non-
            Negligible Damage on Fracture                 *                                                        -        -        -      -         -
            Critical Areas
17.11.3.    Perform Gap Limitation                                                                                 -        -        -      -         -
            Inspection
17.11.4.    Perform Gap Filling Procedures                                                                         -        -        -      -         -
17.11.5.    Perform Bolt Grip Procedures                                                                           -        -        -      -         -
17.11.6.    Install Wing Sling Assembly                                                                            -        -        -      -         -
17.11.7.    Inspect Wing Attachment bolt                                                                           -        -        -      -         -


                                                                          126
F-16 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                 ATTACHMENT 17
                                                            F-16 Requirements
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A       B        A        B           C         D        E      A             B                C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                Level

                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start    Comp      Initials   Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
17.11.8.    Re-torque Wing Attach Fittings                                                                         -        -        -      -         -
17.11.9.    Use Wing Extractor Bolt Tool                                                                           -        -        -      -         -
17.11.10.   Perform Hollow Bolt Injection                                                                          -        -        -      -         -
17.11.11.   Install Wet Fastener                                                                                   -        -        -      -         -
17.11.12.   Inspect Components                             *                                                       -        -        -      -         -




                                                                          127
F-16 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                 ATTACHMENT 17
                                                           F-22 Requirements
                                                                                                             CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                      2. Core Tasks            3. Certification For OJT           Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                  Note)
                                                       A       B      A       B       C         D           E       A             B               C
                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
      1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                Level

                                                                     Tng      Tng Trainee    Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                     5 Level 7 Level Start   Comp Initials   Initials      Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
NOTE 1: This STS is mandatory if trainee is required to maintain the F-22 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.
18.            F-22
18.1.          F-22 AIRCRAFT GENERAL
               Portable Maintenance Aid
               (PMA)/Technical Order Data
               (TOD)
18.1.1.        Perform Aircraft Safe for               *
                                                                                                                    -           -     -       -       -
               Maintenance
18.1.2.        Safety Precautions                                                                                   -           -     -       -       -
18.1.3.        Connect/Disconnect and Operate
                                                                                                                    -           -     -       -       -
               PMA
18.1.4         Integrated Maintenance
               Information System (IMIS)
               Functions
18.1.4.1       Forms Maintenance                                                                                    -       -         -       -       -
18.1.4.2.      Use TOD                                 *                                                            -       -         -       -       -
18.1.4.        Apply/Remove
18.1.4.1.      External Electrical Power                                                                            -           -     -       -       -
18.1.4.2.      External Cooling Air                                                                                 -           -     -       -       -
18.1.4.3.      External PAO                                                                                         -           -     -       -       -
18.1.4.4.      External Hydraulic Pressure                                                                          -           -     -       -       -
18.1.4.5.      External Bleed Air                                                                                   -           -     -       -       -
18.1.5.        Remove, Install, and Inspect Fuel      *
                                                                                                                    -           -     -       -       -
               Hardware, Tubing, and Couplings
18.2.          ENGINE FEED AND
               CROSSFEED SYSTEMS
               TR: PMA/TOD
18.2.1.        System Operation                                                                                     -           -     -        -      -
18.2.2.        Troubleshoot System                             *                                                    -           -     -        -      -
18.2.3.        Remove and Install Components
18.2.3.1.      Electrical Boost Pumps                  *                                                            -           -     -        -      -
18.2.3.2.      Electrical Boost Pump Housing                                                                        -           -     -        -      -
18.2.3.3.      Hydraulic Boost Pumps                   *                                                            -           -     -        -      -
18.2.3.4.      Hydraulic Boost Pump Housing                                                                         -           -     -        -      -
18.2.3.5.      Main Fuel Shutoff Valve/Actuator                                                                     -           -     -        -      -

                                                                   128
F-22 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                               ATTACHMENT 18
                                                          F-22 Requirements
                                                                                                            CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                     2. Core Tasks            3. Certification For OJT           Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                 Note)
                                                      A       B      A       B       C         D           E       A             B               C
                                                                                                                 3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
     1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                Level

                                                                    Tng      Tng Trainee    Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                    5 Level 7 Level Start   Comp Initials   Initials      Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC

18.2.3.6.     APU Shutoff Valve/Solenoid                                                                           -         -       -        -      -
18.2.3.7.     Crossfeed Valve/Actuator                                                                             -         -       -        -      -
18.2.3.8.     Fuel Flow Regulator/Actuator            *                                                            -         -       -        -      -
18.2.3.9.     Differential Pressure Valves                                                                         -         -       -        -      -
18.2.3.10.    Ejector Pumps                                                                                        -         -       -        -      -
18.2.3.11.    Engine Feedline Pressure Sensors                                                                     -         -       -        -      -
18.2.3.12.    Engine Feedline Temperature
                                                                                                                   -         -       -        -      -
              Sensor
18.2.3.13.    Main Engine Feed Line Assembly                                                                       -         -       -        -      -
18.2.4.       Inspect Components                               *                                                   -         -       -        -      -
18.3.         INTERNAL TRANSFER
              SYSTEM
              TR: PMA/TOD
18.3.1.       System Operation                        *                                                            -         -       -       -       -
18.3.2.       Perform Operational Check                                                                            -         -       -       -       -
18.3.3.       Transfer Pump Manual Shutoff
                                                      *                                                            -         -       -       -       -
              Valves
18.3.4.       Troubleshoot System                              *                                                   -         -       -       -       -
18.3.5.       Remove and Install Components
18.3.5.1.     Transfer Pumps                          *                                                            -         -       -       -       -
18.3.5.2.     Transfer Pump Manual Shutoff
                                                                                                                   -         -       -       -       -
              Valves
18.3.5.3.     Forward Transfer Solenoid                                                                            -         -       -       -       -
18.3.5.4.     Forward Transfer Back Pressure
                                                                                                                   -         -       -        -      -
              Valve
18.3.6.       Inspect Components                               *                                                   -         -       -        -      -
18.4.         GROUND REFUELING/
              DEFUELING SYSTEM
              TR: PMA
18.4.1.       System Operation                        *                                                            -         -       -        -      -
18.4.2.       Perform Operational Checks
18.4.2.1.     Refuel Shutoff Valves                   *                                                            -         -       -        -      -
18.4.2.2.     Refuel High Level Float Valves          *                                                            -         -       -       -       -
18.4.3.       Troubleshoot system                              *                                                   -         -       -       -       -
18.4.4.       Remove and Install Components
                                                                   129
F-22 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                           ATTACHMENT 18
                                                          F-22 Requirements
                                                                                                            CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                     2. Core Tasks            3. Certification For OJT           Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                 Note)
                                                      A       B      A       B       C         D           E       A             B               C
                                                                                                                 3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
     1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                Level

                                                                    Tng      Tng Trainee    Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                    5 Level 7 Level Start   Comp Initials   Initials      Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC

18.4.4.1.     Refuel Shutoff Valves                                                                                -         -       -       -       -
18.4.4.2.     Refuel High Level Float Valves                                                                       -         -       -       -       -
18.4.4.3.     Refuel Float Override Solenoid                                                                       -         -       -       -       -
18.4.4.4.     Refuel Auto Drain Valves                                                                             -         -       -       -       -
18.4.4.5.     Ground Refuel Receptacle                                                                             -         -       -       -       -
18.4.4.6.     Ground Defuel Line Manual
                                                                                                                   -         -       -       -       -
              Control Valve
18.4.5.       Inspect Components                               *                                                   -         -       -       -       -
18.5.         AIR REFUEL SYSTEM
              TR: PMA/TOD
18.5.1.       System Operation                        *                                                            -         -       -       -       -
18.5.2.       Perform Operational Checks
18.5.2.1.     Dry Check                               *                                                            -         -       -       -       -
18.5.2.2.     Wet Check                               *                                                            -         -       -        -      -
18.5.3.       Troubleshoot System                              *                                                   -         -       -        -      -
18.5.4.       Remove and Install Components
18.5.4.1.     Air Refuel Receptacle                                                                                -         -       -       -       -
18.5.4.2.     Air Refuel Receptacle Poppet
                                                                                                                   -         -       -       -       -
              Assembly
18.5.4.3.     Slipway Doors                                                                                        -         -       -       -       -
18.5.4.4.     A/R Pressure Switch                                                                                  -         -       -       -       -
18.5.4.5.     Air Refueling Amplifier                                                                              -         -       -       -       -
18.5.4.6.     Air Refueling Hydraulic Control
                                                                                                                   -         -       -       -       -
              Valve
18.5.4.7.     Air Refueling Receptacle Check
                                                                                                                   -         -       -       -       -
              Valve
18.5.5.       Inspect Components                              *                                                    -         -       -       -       -
18.6.         PRESSURIZATION/VENT
              SYSTEM
              TR: PMA/TOD
18.6.1.       System Operation                                                                                     -         -       -       -       -
18.6.2.       Troubleshoot System                             *                                                    -         -       -       -       -
18.6.3.       Remove and Install Components
18.6.3.1.     Internal Tank Vent and
                                                                                                                   -         -       -        -      -
              Pressurization Valve
                                                                   130
F-22 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                           ATTACHMENT 18
                                                          F-22 Requirements
                                                                                                            CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                     2. Core Tasks            3. Certification For OJT           Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                 Note)
                                                      A       B      A       B       C         D           E       A             B               C
                                                                                                                 3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
     1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                Level

                                                                    Tng      Tng Trainee    Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                    5 Level 7 Level Start   Comp Initials   Initials      Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC

18.6.3.2.     OBIGGS Float Selector Valve                                                                          -         -       -        -      -
18.6.3.3.     Negative Pressure Relief Valve                                                                       -         -       -        -      -
18.6.3.4.     Internal Tanks Pressure Sensor A/B                                                                   -         -       -        -      -
18.6.4.       Inspect Components                               *                                                   -         -       -        -      -
18.7.         FUEL COOLING SUBSYSTEM
              TR: PMA/TOD
18.7.1.       System Operation                                                                                     -         -       -        -      -
18.7.2.       Troubleshoot system                              *                                                   -         -       -        -      -
18.7.3.       Remove and Install Components
18.7.3.1.     Fuel/Oil Heat Exchanger                 *                                                            -         -       -        -      -
18.7.3.2.     Fuel PAO Heat Exchanger                 *                                                            -         -       -        -      -
18.7.3.3.     Thermal Management Back
                                                                                                                   -         -       -        -      -
              Pressure Valves
18.7.3.4.     Thermal Management Pressure
                                                                                                                   -         -       -        -      -
              Control Solenoid
18.7.3.5.     Air Cooled Fuel Coolers                                                                              -         -       -        -      -
18.7.3.6.     Tank Bypass Valve/Solenoid                                                                           -         -       -        -      -
18.7.3.7.     PAO Modulation Valves                                                                                -         -       -        -      -
18.7.3.8.     Engine Bypass Valve/Solenoid                                                                         -         -       -        -      -
18.7.3.9.     PAO Reservoir                                                                                        -         -       -        -      -
18.7.3.10.    Inspect Components                               *                                                   -         -       -        -      -
18.8.         EXTERNAL FUEL TANK
              MAINTENANCE
              TR: TO 6J14-2-45-2
18.8.1.       Perform Certification Checks            *                                                            -         -       -        -      -
18.8.2.       Troubleshoot                                     *                                                   -         -       -        -      -
18.8.3.       Remove and Install Tank
              Components
18.8.3.1.     Pressure Relief Valves                                                                               -         -       -        -      -
18.8.3.2.     Negative Pressure Relief Valve                                                                       -         -       -       -       -
18.8.3.3.     Refuel/Transfer Solenoid                                                                             -         -       -       -       -
18.8.3.4.     Refuel Transfer Valves                                                                               -         -       -       -       -
18.8.3.5.     High Level Pilot Float Valves                                                                        -         -       -       -       -
18.8.3.6.     Fuel Quantity Probes                                                                                 -         -       -       -       -

                                                                   131
F-22 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                           ATTACHMENT 18
                                                          F-22 Requirements
                                                                                                            CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                     2. Core Tasks            3. Certification For OJT           Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                 Note)
                                                      A       B      A       B       C         D           E       A             B               C
                                                                                                                 3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
     1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                Level

                                                                    Tng      Tng Trainee    Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                    5 Level 7 Level Start   Comp Initials   Initials      Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC

18.8.3.7.     Drain Valves                                                                                         -         -       -       -       -
18.8.3.8.     Fuel Low Float Switch                                                                                -         -       -       -       -
18.8.3.9.     Fuel/Air Standpipes                                                                                  -         -       -       -       -
18.8.4.       Inspect Components                               *                                                   -         -       -       -       -
18.8.5.       Pressure Check Removed External
                                                                                                                   -         -       -       -       -
              Tank
18.9.         PYLON MAINTENANCE
              TR: 6J14-2-45-2
18.9.1.       System Operation                                                                                     -         -       -       -       -
18.9.2.       Perform Leak Test                                                                                    -         -       -       -       -
18.9.3.       Troubleshoot                                     *                                                   -         -       -       -       -
18.9.4.       Remove and Install Components
18.9.4.1.     Fuel/Air Stand Pipes                                                                                 -         -       -       -       -
18.9.4.2.     Air Pressure Regulators                                                                              -         -       -       -       -
18.9.4.3.     Pressure and Vent Valves                                                                             -         -       -       -       -
18.9.4.4.     Hot Air Check Valves                                                                                 -         -       -       -       -
18.9.4.5.     Pylon-to-Aircraft Fuel Disconnects                                                                   -         -       -       -       -
18.9.4.6.     Pylon-to-Tank Fuel/Air
                                                                                                                   -         -       -       -       -
              Disconnects
18.9.4.7.     Inspect Components                               *                                                   -         -       -       -       -
18.10         Fuel Storage System
18.10.5.1.    Integral Tank Leak Repair                                                                            -         -       -       -       -
18.10.5.2.    Wing Tank Leak Repair                                                                                -         -       -       -       -
18.10.5.3.    Fuel Panel Leak Check                   *                                                            -         -       -       -       -
18.10.6.      Remove/Install Components
18.10.6.1.    Fuel Tank Panels                        *                                                            -         -       -       -       -
18.10.6.2.    Panel Gaskets                           *                                                            -         -       -       -       -
18.10.6.3.    Inspect Components                               *                                                   -         -       -       -       -
18.11.        FUEL QUANTITY SYSTEM
              TR: PMA/TOD Fuel Panel Leak
              Check
18.11.1.      System Operation                                                                                     -         -       -       -       -
18.11.2.      Troubleshoot System                              *                                                   -         -       -       -       -


                                                                   132
F-22 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                           ATTACHMENT 18
                                                         F-22 Requirements
                                                                                                           CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                    2. Core Tasks            3. Certification For OJT           Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                Note)
                                                     A       B      A       B       C         D           E       A             B               C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng Trainee    Trainer      Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                   5 Level 7 Level Start   Comp Initials   Initials      Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC

18.11.3.     Remove and Install Components
18.11.3.1.   Velocity of Sound Fuel Quantity
                                                                                                                  -         -       -       -       -
             Probes
18.11.3.2.   Dialectic Sensors                                                                                    -         -       -       -       -
18.11.3.3.   Fuel Quantity Wiring Harness                                                                         -         -       -        -      -
18.11.3.4.   Inspect Components                               *                                                   -         -       -        -      -
18.11.3.5.   Ultrasonic Fuel Quantity Probes                                                                      -         -       -        -      -
18.11.3.6.   Capacitance Fuel Quantity Probes                                                                     -         -       -        -      -




                                                                  133
F-22 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                          ATTACHMENT 18
                                                              CV-22 Requirements
                                                                                                             CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT           Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                               Note)
                                                  A       B        A       B        C          D         E       A             B               C
                                                                                                               3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                               Level

                                                                  Tng      Tng   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start   Comp   Initials   Initials    Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
NOTE 1: This STS is mandatory if trainee is required to maintain the CV-22 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.
19.           CV-22
19.1.         CV-22 AIRCRAFT
              GENERAL
              TR: 1V-22(C)B-2-DB-1
19.1.1.       Perform Aircraft Safe for           *
                                                                                                                  -        -       -       -       -
              Maintenance
19.1.2.       Apply/Remove External               *
                                                                                                                  -        -       -       -       -
              Power
19.1.3.       System Operational
                                                                                                                  -        -       -       -       -
              Principles
19.1.4.       Perform Fuel IBIT                   *                                                               -        -       -       -       -
19.1.5.       Isolate Fuel System                         *
                                                                                                                  -        -       -       -       -
              Malfunctions
19.1.6.       Inspect Fuel Components                     *                                                       -        -       -       -       -
19.2.         STORAGE SYSTEM
              TR: 1V-22(C)B-2-DB-1
19.2.1.       Remove and Install
19.2.1.1.     Wing Access Panels                                                                                  -        -       -       -       -
19.2.1.2.     Feed Cell Climb Valve               *                                                               -       -        -       -       -
19.2.1.3.     Feed Cell Dive Valve                *                                                               -       -        -       -       -
19.2.1.4.     Phenolic Hangers                                                                                    -       -        -       -       -
19.2.1.5.     Feed Cell Feed tank                 *                                                               -       -        -       -       -
19.2.1.6.     Feed cell Defuel Valve              *                                                               -       -        -       -       -
19.2.1.7.     Feed Cell Float Valve               *                                                               -       -        -       -       -
19.2.1.8.     Feed Cell Sump Drain Valve                                                                          -       -        -       -       -
19.2.1.9.     Feed Cell Pressure Shut-off         *
                                                                                                                  -       -        -       -       -
              Valve
19.2.1.10.    Fwd Sponson Cell                                                                                    -       -        -       -       -
19.2.1.11.    RH Aft Sponson Cell                                                                                 -       -        -       -       -
19.2.1.12.    Sponson Climb/Dive Valve                                                                            -       -        -       -       -
19.2.1.13.    Sponson Level Control Valve                                                                         -       -        -       -       -
19.2.1.14.    Fuel Cell Foam Blocks                                                                               -       -        -       -       -
19.2.1.15.    Frangible Orifice Assembly                                                                          -       -        -       -       -
19.2.1.16.    Sponson Sump Drain                                                                                  -       -        -       -       -

                                                                          134
CV-22 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                               ATTACHMENT 19
                                                              CV-22 Requirements
                                                                                                             CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT           Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                               Note)
                                                  A       B        A       B        C          D         E       A             B               C
                                                                                                               3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                               Level

                                                                  Tng      Tng   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start   Comp   Initials   Initials    Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
19.2.1.17.    Sponson Pressure Shut-off
                                                                                                                  -       -        -       -       -
              Valve
19.2.1.18     Sponson Backing Mats                                                                                -       -        -       -       -
19.2.1.19.    Auxiliary Tank Cells                *                                                               -        -       -       -       -
19.2.1.20.    Auxiliary Tank Interconnect         *
                                                                                                                  -        -       -       -       -
              Fittings
19.2.1.21.    Auxiliary tank Float Valve          *                                                               -        -       -       -       -
19.2.1.22.    Auxiliary tank defuel valve         *                                                               -       -        -       -       -
19.2.1.23.    Auxiliary tank Climb Valve          *                                                               -       -        -       -       -
19.2.1.24.    Auxiliary Tank Dive Valve           *                                                               -       -        -       -       -
19.2.1.25.    Auxiliary Tank Pressure             *
                                                                                                                  -       -        -       -       -
              Shut-off
19.2.1.26.    Auxiliary Tank Inlet Plug                                                                           -       -        -       -       -
19.2.1.27     Inspect Components                          *                                                       -       -        -       -       -
19.3.         DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
              TR: 1V-22(C)B-2-DB-1
19. 3.1.      Remove and Install
19.3.1.1.     Fuel Lines, Hoses and               *
                                                                                                                  -       -        -       -       -
              Connections
19.3.1.2.     Suction Lift Pump                                                                                   -       -        -       -       -
19.3.1.3.     Fuel Shut-off Valves                *                                                               -        -       -       -       -
19.3.1.4.     Negative G Inlet Assembly           *                                                               -       -        -       -       -
19.3.1.5.     Sponson Boost Pump                  *                                                               -       -        -       -       -
19. 3.1.6.    Sponson Refuel/Defuel Valve         *                                                               -       -        -       -       -
19.3.1.7.     Sponson Shut-off Valves             *                                                               -       -        -       -       -
19.3.1.8.     APU Shut-off Valve                                                                                  -       -        -       -       -
19.3.1.9.     RH Feed Cell ½ Breakaway
                                                                                                                  -       -        -       -       -
              Valve
19.3.1.10.    Cross Transfer Shutoff Valve        *                                                               -       -        -       -       -
19.3.1.11.    Inspect Components                          *                                                       -       -        -       -       -
19.4.         GROUND REFUEL
              TR: 1V-22(C)B-2-DB-1
19.4.1.       Perform Continuity Check of
                                                                                                                  -       -        -       -       -
              Refuel Ground
19.4.2.       Remove and install


                                                                          135
CV-22 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                               ATTACHMENT 19
                                                              CV-22 Requirements
                                                                                                             CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT           Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                               Note)
                                                  A       B        A       B        C          D         E       A             B               C
                                                                                                               3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                               Level

                                                                  Tng      Tng   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start   Comp   Initials   Initials    Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
19.4.2.1.     Refueling Adapter Assembly                                                                          -       -        -       -       -
19.4.2.2.     Fuel Flow Monitor                                                                                   -       -        -       -       -
19.4.2.3      Inspect Components                          *                                                       -       -        -       -       -
19.5.         VENT PRESSURIZATION
              TR:1V-22(C)B-2-DB-1
19.5.1.       Remove and Install
19.5.1.1.     Feed Cell Aft Slug Trap                                                                             -       -        -       -       -
19.5.1.2.     Feed Cell Forward Slug Trap                                                                         -       -        -       -       -
19.5.1.3.     Feed Cell Vent Hose                 *
                                                                                                                  -       -        -       -       -
              Assembly
19.5.1.5.     Feed Cell Rupture Disc              *                                                               -       -        -       -       -
19.5.1.6.     Feed Cell External Vent Hose
                                                                                                                  -       -        -       -       -
              Assembly
19.5.1.7.     Sponson Overpressure Vent           *
                                                                                                                  -       -        -       -       -
              Manifold
19.5.1.8.     Sponson Vent Breakaway              *
                                                                                                                  -       -        -       -       -
              Valve
19.5.1.9.     Sponson Vent Check Valve            *                                                               -       -        -       -       -
19.5.1.10.    Vent Cell Vent Manifold                                                                             -       -        -       -       -
19.5.1.11     Inspect Components                          *                                                       -       -        -       -       -
19.6.         FUEL QUANTITY
              INDICATING
              TR: 1V-22(C)B-2-DB-1
19.6.1.       Remove and Install
19.6.1.1.     Fuel Quantity Probes                *                                                               -       -        -       -       -
19.6.1.2.     Suction Lift Pump Pressure
                                                                                                                  -       -        -       -       -
              Switch
19.6.1.3.     Fuel Quantity Wire Harness          *                                                               -       -        -       -       -
19.6.1.4      Inspect Components                          *                                                       -       -        -       -       -




                                                                          136
CV-22 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                               ATTACHMENT 19
This page intentionally left blank.
                                                      1H-60 (H) (G) Requirements
                                                                                                           CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A       B        A        B       C         D        E      A             B               C
                                                                                                            3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                            Level

                                                                  Tng       Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start    Comp Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
NOTE 1: This STS is mandatory if trainee is required to maintain the 1H-60(H) (G) helicopter.
NOTE 2: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.
20.         1H-60
20.1.       MAIN FUEL SYSTEMS
            TR: TOs 1-1-3, 1H-60(H)G-2-
            4, and 1H-60(H)G-2-5
20.1.1.     Perform Aircraft Safe for             *
                                                                                                              -         -       -       -       -
            Maintenance
20.1.2.     System Operation                                                                                  -         -       -       -       -
20.1.3.     Perform Operational Check             *                                                           -         -       -       -       -
20.1.4.     Troubleshoot System                           *                                                   -         -       -       -       -
20.1.5.     Remove/Install Components                                                                         -         -       -       -       -
20.1.6.     Inspect Components                            *                                                   -         -       -       -       -
20.2.       FUEL DUMP SYSTEM
            TR: TOs 1H-60(H)G-2-4 and
            1H-60(H)G-2-5
20.2.1.     System Operation                                                                                   -        -       -       -       -
20.2.2.     Perform Operational Check             *                                                            -        -       -       -       -
20.2.3.     Troubleshoot System                           *                                                    -        -       -       -       -
20.2.4.     Remove/Install Components                                                                          -        -       -       -       -
20.2.5.     Inspect Components                            *                                                    -        -       -       -       -
20.3.       FUEL TRANSFER SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1H-60(H)G-2-4 and
            1H-60(H)G-2-5
20.3.1.     System Operation                                                                                   -        -       -       -       -
20.3.2.     Perform Operational Check             *                                                            -        -       -       -       -
20.3.3.     Troubleshoot System                           *                                                    -        -       -       -       -
20.3.4.     Remove/Install Components                                                                          -        -       -       -       -
20.3.5.     Inspect Components                            *                                                    -        -       -       -       -
20.4.       VENT SYSTEM
            TR: TOS 1H-60(H)G-2-4 and
            1H-60(H)G-2-5
20.4.1.     System Operation                                                                                   -        -       -       -       -
20.4.2.     Perform Operational Checks            *                                                            -        -       -       -       -
20.4.3.     Troubleshoot System                           *                                                    -        -       -       -       -
20.4.4.     Remove/Install Components                                                                          -        -       -       -       -
20.4.5.     Inspect Components                            *                                                    -        -       -       -       -

                                                                          138
1H-60 (H) (G) REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                      ATTACHMENT 20
                                                      1H-60 (H) (G) Requirements
                                                                                                           CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A       B        A        B       C         D        E      A             B               C
                                                                                                            3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                            Level

                                                                  Tng       Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start    Comp Initials Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
20.5.       AIR REFUELING SYSTEM
            TR: TOS 1H-60(H)G-2-4 and
            1H-60(H)G-2-5
20.5.1.     System Operation                                                                                   -        -       -       -       -
20.5.2.     Perform Operational Check                                                                          -        -       -       -       -
20.5.3.     Troubleshoot System                           *                                                   -         -       -       -       -
20.5.4.     Remove/Install Components                                                                         -         -       -       -       -
20.5.5.     Inspect Components                            *                                                   -         -       -       -       -
20.6.       FUEL QUANTITY
            INDICATING SYSTEM
            TR: TOS 1H-60(H)G-2-4 and
            1H-60(H)G-2-5
20.6.1.     System Operation                                                                                  -         -       -       -       -
20.6.2.     Perform Operational Check                                                                         -         -       -       -       -
20.6.3.     Troubleshoot System                                                                               -         -       -       -       -
20.6.4.     Remove/Install Components                                                                         -         -       -       -       -
20.6.5.     Inspect Components                            *                                                   -         -       -       -       -




                                                                          139
1H-60 (H) (G) REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                      ATTACHMENT 20
                                                              KC-10 Requirements
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X4, 15 April 2014
                                                                                                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A       B        A       B       C          D           E           A             B               C
                                                                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                    Level

                                                                  Tng      Tng Trainee     Trainer     Certifier     (1)    (1)        (2)     (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start   Comp Initials    Initials     Initials    Course Course     CDC     Course CDC
NOTE 1: This STS is mandatory if trainee is required to maintain the KC-10 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks
21.         KC-10
21.1.       KC-10 AIRCRAFT GENERAL
            TR: Applicable aircraft and
            equipment TOs (e.g.,
            workcards, checklists, etc)
21.1.1.     Apply and Remove Electrical           *
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
            Power
21.1.2.     Perform Aircraft Safe for             *
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
            Maintenance
21.1.3.     Remove, Install, and Inspect
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
            Tubing/Manifold and Coupling
21.1.4.     Operate Fuel Management               *
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
            Panel
21.1.5.     Disconnect/Reconnect Aircraft
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
            Batteries
21.1.6.     Egress Familiarization
            TR: TOS 1C-10(K)A-1 and                                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
            1C-10(K)A-ICL-1
21.1.7.     Operate Intercom System
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
            TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-23
21.2.       ENGINE FEED AND
            CROSSFEED SYSTEM
            TR: TOs 1C-10(K)A-2-28-1
            and 1C-10(K)A-2-28FI-1
21.2.1.     System Operation                                                                                          -        -         -      -       -
21.2.2.     Perform Operational Check
21.2.2.1.   Boost/Transfer Pumps                  *                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
21.2.2.2.   Crossfeed Valve                       *                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
21.2.2.3.   Engine Firewall Shutoff Valve         *                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
21.2.3.     Troubleshoot System                           *                                                           -        -         -      -       -
21.2.4.     Remove and Install
            Components
21.2.4.1.   Boost/Transfer Pumps                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
21.2.4.2.   Crossfeed Valve                                                                                           -        -         -      -       -
21.2.4.3.   Engine Firewall Shutoff Valve                                                                             -        -         -      -       -
21.2.5.     Inspect Components                            *                                                           -        -         -      -       -



                                                                          140
KC-10 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                  ATTACHMENT 21
                                                              KC-10 Requirements
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X4, 15 April 2014
                                                                                                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A       B        A       B       C          D           E           A             B               C
                                                                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                    Level

                                                                  Tng      Tng Trainee     Trainer     Certifier     (1)    (1)        (2)     (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start   Comp Initials    Initials     Initials    Course Course     CDC     Course CDC
21.3.       APU FUEL SUPPLY
            SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-28-1
21.3.1.     System Operation                                                                                          -        -         -      -       -
21.3.2.     Perform Operational Check
21.3.2.1.   Start Pump                             *                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
21.3.2.2.   Fire Shutoff Valves                    *                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
21.3.3.     Troubleshoot System                           *                                                           -        -         -      -       -
21.3.4.     Remove and Install
            Components
21.3.4.1.   Start Pump                                                                                                -        -         -      -       -
21.3.4.2.   Fire Shutoff Valves                                                                                       -        -         -      -       -
21.3.5.     Inspect Components                            *                                                           -        -         -      -       -
21.4.       FUEL JETTISON/DUMP
            SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-28-1
21.4.1.     System Operation                                                                                          -        -         -      -       -
21.4.2.     Perform Operational Check
21.4.2.1.   Dump Shutoff Float Switch             *                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
21.4.2.2.   Fuel Dump Valve                       *                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
21.4.2.3.   Float Shutoff Valve                   *                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
21.4.3.     Troubleshoot System                           *                                                           -        -         -      -       -
21.4.4.     Remove and Install
            Components
21.4.4.1.   Dump Shutoff Float Switch                                                                                 -        -         -      -       -
21.4.4.2.   Fuel Dump Valve                                                                                           -        -         -      -       -
21.4.4.3.   Float Shutoff Valve                                                                                       -        -         -      -       -
21.4.5.     Inspect Components                            *                                                           -        -         -      -       -
21.5.       GROUND
            REFUELING/DEFUELING
            SYSTEMS
            TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-28-1
21.5.1.     System Operation                                                                                          -        -         -      -       -
21.5.2.     Perform Operational Check
21.5.2.1.   Fill And Shutoff Controller           *                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
21.5.2.2.   Fill And Shutoff Valve                *                                                                   -        -         -      -       -

                                                                          141
KC-10 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                  ATTACHMENT 21
                                                              KC-10 Requirements
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X4, 15 April 2014
                                                                                                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A       B        A       B       C          D           E           A             B               C
                                                                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                    Level

                                                                  Tng      Tng Trainee     Trainer     Certifier     (1)    (1)        (2)     (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start   Comp Initials    Initials     Initials    Course Course     CDC     Course CDC
21.5.2.3.   Alternate Refuel Shutoff Valve        *                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
21.5.2.4.   Alternate Transfer Valve              *                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
21.5.2.5.   Fill Isolation Valve                  *                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
21.5.3.     Troubleshoot System                           *                                                           -        -         -      -       -
21.5.4.     Remove And Install
            Components
21.5.4.1.   Fill And Shutoff Controller                                                                               -        -         -      -       -
21.5.4.2.   Fill And Shutoff Valve                                                                                    -        -         -      -       -
21.5.4.3.   Alternate Refuel Shutoff Valve                                                                            -        -         -      -       -
21.5.4.4.   Alternate Transfer Valve                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
21.5.4.5.   Fill Isolation Valve                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
21.5.4.6.   Pressure Refueling/Defueling
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
            Adapter
21.5.5.     Inspect Components                            *                                                           -        -         -      -       -
21.6.       AIR REFUELING RECEIVER
            SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-28-2
21.6.1.     System Operation                                                                                          -        -         -      -       -
21.6.2.     Perform Operational Check
21.6.2.1.   A/R Pumps                             *                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
21.6.2.2.   Aft Transfer/Fill Isolation           *
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
            Valve
21.6.2.3.   Centerwing A/R Isolation              *
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
            Valve
21.6.2.4.   Forward Transfer/Fill Isolation       *
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
            Valve
21.6.2.5.   A/R Shutoff Valve                     *                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
21.6.2.6.   Manifold Surge Relief Valve           *                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
21.6.2.7.   Drogue Fuel Shutoff Valve                                                                                 -        -         -      -       -
21.6.2.8.   Outboard Wing Drogue Shut             *
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
            Off Valve
21.6.3.     Troubleshoot System
21.6.3.1.   A/R Pumps                                     *                                                           -        -         -      -       -
21.6.3.2.   Aft Transfer/Fill Isolation                   *
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
            Valve


                                                                          142
KC-10 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                  ATTACHMENT 21
                                                              KC-10 Requirements
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X4, 15 April 2014
                                                                                                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A       B        A       B       C          D           E           A             B               C
                                                                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                    Level

                                                                  Tng      Tng Trainee     Trainer     Certifier     (1)    (1)        (2)     (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start   Comp Initials    Initials     Initials    Course Course     CDC     Course CDC
21.6.3.3.    Centerwing A/R Isolation                     *                                                           -        -         -      -       -
             Valve
21.6.3.4.    Forward Transfer/Fill Isolation
                                                          *                                                           -        -         -      -       -
             Valve
21.6.3.5.    A/R Shutoff Valve                            *                                                           -        -         -      -       -
21.6.3.6.    Manifold Surge Relief Valve                  *                                                           -        -         -      -       -
21.6.3.7.    Drogue Fuel Shutoff Valve                                                                                -        -         -      -       -
21.6.3.8.    Outboard Wing Drogue Shut                    *
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
             Off Valve
21.6.4.      Remove and Install
             Components
21.6.4.1.    A/R Pumps                                                                                                -        -         -      -       -
21.6.4.2.    Aft Transfer/Fill Isolation
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
             Valve
21.6.4.3.    Centerwing A/R Isolation
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
             Valve
21.6.4.4.    Forward Transfer/Fill Isolation
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
             Valve
21.6.4.5.    A/R Shutoff Valve                                                                                        -        -         -      -       -
21.6.4.6.    Manifold Surge Relief Valve                                                                              -        -         -      -       -
21.6.4.7.    Drogue Fuel Shutoff Valve                                                                                -        -         -      -       -
21.6.4.8.    Dual By-Pass Valve                                                                                       -        -         -      -       -
21.6.4.9.    A/R Fuel Flow Transmitter                                                                                -        -         -      -       -
21.6.4.10.   Boom Fuel Shutoff Valve                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
21.6.4.11.   Outboard Wing Drogue Shut
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
             Off Valve
21.6.5.      Inspect Components                           *                                                           -        -         -      -       -
21.7.        MANIFOLD SCAVENGE/
             DRAIN SYSTEM
             TR: TOs 1C-10(K)A-2-28-1
             and 1C-10(K)A-2-28FI-1
21.7.1.      System Operation                                                                                         -        -         -      -       -
21.7.2.      Perform Operational Check
21.7.2.1.    Manifold Scavenge Fuel Pump          *                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
21.7.2.2.    Low Pressure Switches                *                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
21.7.2.3.    Manifold Scavenge Shutoff            *
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
             Valve

                                                                          143
KC-10 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                  ATTACHMENT 21
                                                              KC-10 Requirements
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X4, 15 April 2014
                                                                                                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A       B        A       B       C          D           E           A             B               C
                                                                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                    Level

                                                                  Tng      Tng Trainee     Trainer     Certifier     (1)    (1)        (2)     (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start   Comp Initials    Initials     Initials    Course Course     CDC     Course CDC
21.7.2.4.   Manifold Drain Valve                  *                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
21.7.2.5.   Manifold Drain And Outboard           *
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
            Fill Valve
21.7.3.     Troubleshoot System                           *                                                           -        -         -      -       -
21.7.4.     Remove And Install
            Components
21.7.4.1.   Manifold Scavenge Fuel Pump                                                                               -        -         -      -       -
21.7.4.2.   Low Pressure Switches                                                                                     -        -         -      -       -
21.7.4.3.   Manifold Scavenge Shutoff
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
            Valve
21.7.4.4.   Manifold Drain Valve                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
21.7.4.5.   Manifold Drain And Outboard
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
            Fill Valve
21.7.5.     Inspect Components                            *                                                           -        -         -      -       -
21.8.       SHROUDED FUEL DRAIN
            SYSTEM
            TR: TOs 1C-10(K)A-2-28-1
            and 1C-10(K)A-2-28FI-1
21.8.1.     System Operation                                                                                          -        -         -      -       -
21.8.2.     Perform Operational Check
21.8.2.1.   Container Drain Valve                 *                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
21.8.2.2.   Shroud Drain Valve                    *                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
21.8.3.     Troubleshoot System                           *                                                           -        -         -      -       -
21.8.4.     Remove and Install
            Components
21.8.4.1.   Container Drain Valve                                                                                     -        -         -      -       -
21.8.4.2.   Shroud Drain Valve                                                                                        -        -         -      -       -
21.8.4.3.   A/R Drain Container                                                                                       -        -         -      -       -
21.8.4.4.   Shroud Drain Container                                                                                    -        -         -      -       -
21.8.4.5.   Fuel Line Coupling Shroud                                                                                 -        -         -      -       -
21.8.5.     Inspect Components                            *                                                           -        -         -      -       -
21.9.       TANK CONTINUOUS
            SCAVENGING SYSTEM
            TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-28-1
21.9.1.     System Operation                                                                                          -        -         -      -       -
21.9.2.     Perform Operational Checks
21.9.2.1.   Tank Scavenge Jet Pump                *                                                                   -        -         -      -       -

                                                                          144
KC-10 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                  ATTACHMENT 21
                                                              KC-10 Requirements
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X4, 15 April 2014
                                                                                                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A       B        A       B       C          D           E           A             B               C
                                                                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                    Level

                                                                  Tng      Tng Trainee     Trainer     Certifier     (1)    (1)        (2)     (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start   Comp Initials    Initials     Initials    Course Course     CDC     Course CDC
21.9.2.2.    Jet Pump Check Valve                 *                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
21.9.2.3.    Pressure Actuated Scavenge           *
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
             Valve
21.9.3.      Troubleshoot System                          *                                                           -        -         -      -       -
21.9.4.      Remove and Install
             Components
21.9.4.1.    Tank Scavenge Jet Pump                                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
21.9.4.2.    Jet Pump Check Valve                                                                                     -        -         -      -       -
21.9.4.3.    Pressure Actuated Scavenge
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
             Valve
21.9.5.      Inspect Components                           *                                                           -        -         -      -       -
21.10.       PRESSURIZATION/VENT
             SYSTEM
             TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-28-1
21.10.1.     System Operation                                                                                         -        -         -      -       -
21.10.2.     Perform Operational Check
21.10.2.1.   Vent Box Drain Valve                 *                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
21.10.2.2.   Spar Mounted Drain Valve             *                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
21.10.2.3.   Tank Sump Drain Valve/Dip            *
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
             Stick
21.10.3.     Troubleshoot System                          *                                                           -        -         -      -       -
21.10.4.     Remove And Install
             Components
21.10.4.1.   Vent Box Drain Valve                                                                                     -        -         -      -       -
21.10.4.2.   Spar Mounted Drain Valve                                                                                 -        -         -      -       -
21.10.4.3.   Tank Sump Drain Valve/Dip
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
             Stick
21.10.5.     Repair Spar Mounted Drain
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
             Valve
21.10.6.     Repair Tank Sump Drain Valve                                                                             -        -         -      -       -
21.10.7.     Inspect Components                           *                                                           -        -         -      -       -
21.11.       FUEL INDICATION SYSTEM
             TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-28-1
21.11.1.     System Operation                                                                                         -        -         -      -       -
21.11.2.     Remove/Install Components
21.11.2.1.   Fuel Quantity Tank Units                                                                                 -        -         -      -       -
21.11.2.2.   Fuel Quantity Harness                                                                                    -        -         -      -       -


                                                                          145
KC-10 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                  ATTACHMENT 21
                                                              KC-10 Requirements
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X4, 15 April 2014
                                                                                                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                  A       B        A       B       C          D           E           A             B               C
                                                                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                    Level

                                                                  Tng      Tng Trainee     Trainer     Certifier     (1)    (1)        (2)     (1)    (2)
                                                5 Level 7 Level
                                                                  Start   Comp Initials    Initials     Initials    Course Course     CDC     Course CDC
21.11.3.     Inspect Components                           *                                                           -        -         -      -       -
21.12.       INTEGRAL TANK
             MAINTENANCE
             TR: TOs 1-1-3 and
             1C-10(K)A-2-28-1
21.12.1.     Integral Tank Construction                                                                               -        -         -      -       -
21.12.2.     Perform Leak Source Isolation
             Procedures
             TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-28-3
21.12.2.1.   Positive Pressure Test Integral      *
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
             Tanks
21.12.2.2.   Negative Pressure Test Integral      *
                                                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
             Tanks
21.13.       BLADDER CELL
             MAINTENANCE
             TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-28-1
21.13.1.     Identify Cavity Drains               *                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
21.13.2.     Perform Leak Source Isolation        *                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
21.13.3.     Remove/Install Fuel Cells                                                                                -        -         -      -       -
21.13.4.     Inspect Fuel Cells                            *                                                          -        -         -      -       -




                                                                          146
KC-10 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                  ATTACHMENT 21
This page intentionally left blank.
                                                            U-2 Requirements
                                                                                                             CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT          Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                Note)
                                                   A       B        A         B        C         D       E        A             B               C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng     Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp     Initials   Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
NOTE 1: This STS is mandatory if trainee is required to maintain the U-2 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.
22.         U-2
22.1.       U-2 AIRCRAFT GENERAL
            TR: TO U-2R/U-2S-2-5, and
            U2R/U-2-8
22.1.1.      Perform Aircraft Safe for             *                                                              -        -         -      -       -
             Maintenance
22.1.2.     Apply/Remove AC External
            Power
                                                   *                                                              -        -         -      -       -
            TR: 1U-2S-2-8, and
            1U-2S-2-8CL-1/2
22.1.3.     Apply/Remove DC External
            Power
                                                   *                                                              -        -         -      -       -
            TR: 1U-2S-2-8, and
            1U-2S-2-8CL-1/2
22.1.4.     Operation of Fuel Management
            Panel Switches                         *                                                               -       -         -      -       -
            TR; 1U-2S-2-5
22.1.5.      Safety Precautions                                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
22.1.6.      Remove, Install, and Inspect
                                                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
             Fuel Tubing and Couplings
22.2.       ENGINE FEED AND
            CROSSFEED SYSTEMS
            TR: Aircraft TO U-2R/U-2S-2-5
22.2.1.      System Operation                                                                                     -        -         -      -       -
22.2.2.     Perform Operational Check
22.2.2.1.   Primary and Secondary Boost            *                                                              -        -         -      -       -
            Pump
22.2.2.2.    Boost Pump Pressure Switch            *
                                                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
             (Primary & Secondary)
22.2.2.3.    Emergency Shutoff Valve               *                                                              -        -         -      -       -
22.2.2.4.    Fuel Pressure                         *
                                                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
             Transmitter/Snubber
22.2.2.5.    Cross Transfer Pump (inboard          *
                                                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
             & outboard tanks)
22.2.2.6.    Cross Transfer Valve (inboard         *
                                                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
             & outboard)
22.2.2.7.    Cross Transfer Pressure Switch        *                                                              -        -         -      -       -
22.2.2.8.    Wing to Sump Cross Transfer           *
                                                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
             Valve (inboard/outboard)
22.2.3.     Troubleshoot System
                                                                        148
U-2 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                               ATTACHMENT 22
                                                            U-2 Requirements
                                                                                                             CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT          Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                Note)
                                                   A       B        A         B        C         D       E        A             B               C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng     Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp     Initials   Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
22.2.3.1.    Engine Feed System                            *                                                      -        -         -      -       -
22.2.3.2.    Crossfeed System                              *                                                      -        -         -      -       -
22.2.4.      Isolate Fuselage Sump Tank                    *
                                                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
             Leak
22.2.5.     Remove and Install Components
22.2.5.1.    Boost Pumps                                                                                          -        -         -      -       -
22.2.5.2.    Pressure Switches                                                                                    -        -         -      -       -
22.2.5.3.    Emergency Shutoff Valve                                                                              -        -         -      -       -
22.2.5.4.    Manual Shutoff Valve(s)                                                                              -        -         -      -       -
22.2.5.5.    Drain Valve                                                                                          -        -         -      -       -
22.2.5.6.    Fuel Pressure
                                                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
             Transmitter/Snubber
22.2.5.7.    Cross Transfer Pump                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
22.2.5.8.    Cross Transfer Valves                                                                                -        -         -      -       -
22.2.5.9.    200 Mesh Fuel Strainer                *                                                              -        -         -      -       -
22.2.5.10. Quick Disconnect (airframe
                                                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
           side)
22.2.5.11. Forward Fuselage Sump Tanks             *                                                              -        -         -      -       -
           (LT and RT)
22.2.5.12. Aft Fuselage Sump Tanks                 *
                                                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
           (LT and RT)
22.2.6.      Inspect Components                            *                                                      -        -         -      -       -
22.3.       FUEL JETTISON/DUMP
            SYSTEM
            TR: Aircraft TO U-2R/U-2S-2-
            5
22.3.1.      System Operation                                                                                     -        -         -      -       -
22.3.2.     Perform Operational Check
22.3.2.1.    Dump Valve                            *                                                              -        -         -      -       -
22.3.2.2.    Dump Complete Switch                  *                                                              -        -         -      -       -
22.3.3.      Troubleshoot System                           *                                                      -        -         -      -       -
22.3.4.     Remove and Install Components
22.3.4.1.    Dump Valve                                                                                           -        -         -      -       -
22.3.4.2.    Dump Complete Switch                                                                                 -        -         -      -       -
22.3.4.3.    Fuel Dump Chute                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -

                                                                        149
U-2 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                               ATTACHMENT 22
                                                            U-2 Requirements
                                                                                                             CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT          Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                Note)
                                                   A       B        A         B        C         D       E        A             B               C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng     Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp     Initials   Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
22.3.5.      Inspect Components                            *                                                      -        -         -      -       -
22.4.       TRANSFER SYSTEM
            TR: Aircraft TO U-2R/U-2S-2-
            5
22.4.1.      System Operation                                                                                     -        -         -      -       -
22.4.2.     Perform Operational Check
22.4.2.1.    Fuel Level Control Valves             *                                                              -        -         -      -       -
22.4.2.2.    Bleed Air Orifice Filters                                                                            -        -         -      -       -
22.4.3.     Troubleshoot System
22.4.3.1.    Fuel Level Control Valve                      *                                                      -        -         -      -       -
22.4.3.2.    Dual Check Valves                             *                                                      -        -         -      -       -
22.4.3.3.    Bleed Air Orifices                            *                                                      -        -         -      -       -
22.4.4.     Remove and Install Components
22.4.4.1.    Fuel Level Control Valves                                                                            -        -         -      -       -
22.4.4.2.    Dual Check Valves                                                                                    -        -         -      -       -
22.4.4.3.    Transfer System Manual
                                                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
             Shutoff Valve
22.4.4.4.    60 Mesh Fuel Strainers                *                                                              -        -         -      -       -
22.4.4.5.    Drain Valve                           *                                                              -        -         -      -       -
22.4.5.      Inspect Components                            *                                                      -        -         -      -       -
22.5.       GROUND REFUELING AND
            DEFUELING SYSTEMS
            TR: Aircraft TO.
            U-2R/U-2S-2-5
22.5.1.      System Operation                                                                                     -        -         -      -       -
22.5.2.      Perform Operational Check             *                                                              -        -         -      -       -
22.5.3.      Troubleshoot Sump Tank
                                                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
             Defuel Valve
22.5.4.     Remove and Install Components
22.5.4.1.    Sump Tank Defuel Valve                                                                               -        -         -      -       -
22.5.4.2.    Integral Wing Tank Drain
                                                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
             Valves
22.5.5.      Inspect Components                            *                                                      -        -         -      -       -
22.6.       PRESSURIZATION/VENT
            SYSTEM
            TR: Aircraft TO U-2R/U-2S-2-
                                                                        150
U-2 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                               ATTACHMENT 22
                                                            U-2 Requirements
                                                                                                             CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT          Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                Note)
                                                   A       B        A         B        C         D       E        A             B               C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng     Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp     Initials   Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
            5
22.6.1.      System Operation                                                                                     -        -         -      -       -
22.6.2.     Perform Operational Check
22.6.2.1.    Sniffle Valve                         *                                                              -        -         -      -       -
22.6.2.2.    Air Bypass Valves                     *                                                              -        -         -      -       -
22.6.2.3.    Air Pressure Regulators               *                                                              -        -         -      -       -
22.6.2.4.    Vent Float Valves                     *                                                              -        -         -      -       -
22.6.2.5.    Suction Relief Valve                  *                                                              -        -         -      -       -
22.6.2.6.    Bleed Air Check Valves                *                                                              -        -         -      -       -
22.6.2.7.    Bleed Air Filters                     *                                                              -        -         -      -       -
22.6.3.     Troubleshoot System
22.6.3.1.    Vent Float Valves                              *                                                     -        -         -      -       -
22.6.3.2.    Air Bypass Valves                              *                                                     -        -         -      -       -
22.6.3.3.    Air Pressure Regulators                        *                                                     -        -         -      -       -
22.6.3.4.    Sniffle Valves                                 *                                                     -        -         -      -       -
22.6.3.5.    Suction Relief Valves                          *                                                     -        -         -      -       -
22.6.3.6.    Bleed Air Check Valves                         *                                                     -        -         -      -       -
22.6.3.7.    Bleed Air Filters                              *                                                     -        -         -      -       -
22.6.4.     Remove and Install Components
22.6.4.1.    Vent Float Valves                                                                                    -        -         -      -       -
22.6.4.2.    Sniffle Valves                                                                                       -        -         -      -       -
22.6.4.3.    Air Bypass Valves                                                                                    -        -         -      -       -
22.6.4.4.    Air Pressure Regulators                                                                              -        -         -      -       -
22.6.4.5.    Suction Relief Valves                                                                                -        -         -      -       -
22.6.4.6.    Bleed Air Check Valves                                                                               -        -         -      -       -
22.6.4.7.    Bleed Air Filters                                                                                    -        -         -      -       -
22.6.4.8     Ground Test Connections                                                                              -        -         -      -       -
22.6.5.      Inspect Components                            *                                                      -        -         -      -       -
22.7.       FUEL QUANTITY
            INDICATING SYSTEM
22.7.1.      System Operation                                                                                     -        -         -      -       -
22.7.2.      Troubleshoot System                           *                                                      -        -         -      -       -
22.7.3.     Remove/Install tank

                                                                        151
U-2 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                               ATTACHMENT 22
                                                            U-2 Requirements
                                                                                                             CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT          Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                Note)
                                                   A       B        A         B        C         D       E        A             B               C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng     Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp     Initials   Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
            Components
22.7.3.1.    Fuel Quantity Probe                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
22.7.3.2.    Low Level Float Switch                                                                               -        -         -      -       -
22.7.4.      Inspect Components                            *                                                      -        -         -      -       -
22.8.       HYDRAZINE
            MAINTENANCE/
            EMERGENCY START
            SYSTEM
            TR: Aircraft TO
            U-2R/U-2S-2-5
22.8.1.      System Operation                                                                                     -        -         -      -       -
22.8.2.     Perform Operational Checkout
22.8.2.1.    Nitrogen/Hydrazine System
                                                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
             Leak Check
22.8.2.2.    Hot Duct Leak Check                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
22.8.2.3.    ESS Heater Blanket                                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
22.8.3.     Troubleshoot System
22.8.3.1.    Nitrogen Pressurization                       *                                                      -        -         -      -       -
22.8.3.2.    Warning Light Illumination                    *                                                      -        -         -      -       -
22.8.3.3.    Hydrazine Detector                            *                                                      -        -         -      -       -
22.8.4.     Remove and Install Components
22.8.4.1.    Nitrogen Bottle                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
22.8.4.2.    Nitrogen Plumbing                                                                                    -        -         -      -       -
22.8.4.3.    Nitrogen Shutoff And
                                                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
             Regulating Valve
22.8.4.4.    Pressure Switch                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
22.8.4.5.    Surge Tank                                                                                           -        -         -      -       -
22.8.4.6.    Gas Generator                                                                                        -        -         -      -       -
22.8.4.7.    ATS Starter Exhaust Cover                                                                            -        -         -      -       -
22.8.4.8.    Hydrazine Collector/Detector          *                                                              -        -         -      -       -
22.8.4.9.    Hydrazine Tank (H-70)                                                                                -        -         -      -       -
22.8.4.10. Hot Duct Plumbing                                                                                      -        -         -      -       -
22.8.5.      Inspect Components                            *                                                      -        -         -      -       -
22.8.6.      Purge System                                                                                         -        -         -      -       -
22.8.7.      Depressurize System                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
                                                                        152
U-2 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                               ATTACHMENT 22
                                                            U-2 Requirements
                                                                                                             CFETP 2A6X4, 1 April 2014
                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT          Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                Note)
                                                   A       B        A         B        C         D       E        A             B               C
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                                                                                Level

                                                                   Tng      Tng     Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)    (1)    (2) (1)    (2)
                                                 5 Level 7 Level
                                                                   Start   Comp     Initials   Initials Initials Course Course CDC Course CDC
22.8.8.     Perform H-70 Spill Clean-up
            Procedures
22.8.8.1.    Response Team Member                  *                                                              -        -         -      -       -
22.8.8.2.    Response Team Supervisor                      *                                                      -        -         -      -       -
22.8.9.     Use, Inspect, and Clean H-70
            Personal Protective Equipment
22.8.9.1.   Self-contained Breathing               *
                                                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
            Apparatus
22.8.9.2.    Protective Suit, Gloves and           *
                                                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
             Boots
22.8.10.    Operate, Use, and Maintain H-
            70 Support Equipment
22.8.10.1. Hydrazine Analyzer                      *                                                              -        -         -      -       -
22.8.10.2. Litmus Paper                            *                                                              -        -         -      -       -
22.8.10.3. ESS Test Equipment RG 941                                                                              -        -         -      -       -
22.8.10.4. H-70 Tank detector RG 977                                                                              -        -         -      -       -
22.8.10.5. Seal Cover Plate RG 947/
                                                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
           Dummy Plug
22.8.10.6. Exhaust Cover Plate                                                                                    -        -         -      -       -
22.8.10.7. Tank Shipping/Storage/
                                                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
           Handling Container
22.9.       FUEL TANK ENTRY
            TR: TOs 1-1-3 and Aircraft
            TO U-2R/U-2S-2-5, U-2R/U-
            2S-3
22.9.1.      Remove Wing Planks                                                                                   -        -         -      -       -
22.9.2.      Install Wing Planks                                                                                  -        -         -      -       -
22.9.3.      Inspect Components                             *                                                     -        -         -      -       -




                                                                        153
U-2 REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                               ATTACHMENT 22
                                          2AX7X Specialty Training Standard
                                      AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN

 1. Tasks                                                                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                 Provided
 Knowledge And Technical References                                                                 A          B           C
                                                                                                3-Skill Level 5-Skill Level    7-Skill Level
                                                                                                    (1)           (1)         (1)        (2)
                                                                                                   Crse           CDC         Crse      CDC

 NOTE 1: Columns 2 and 3 are deleted from this STS because all items are SUBJECT KNOWLEDGE LEVEL only and require
         no certification.
 NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
 NOTE 3: This attachment is to be used in conjunction with other attachments in applicable CFETPs.
 NOTE 4: Personnel must complete CDC requirements on all MDSs/attachments.
 NOTE 5: This attachment is to be used as a correlation document for the 2AX7X 7-level Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman
         CDCs.
 AA.1.          MAINTENANCE PHILOSOPHY AND POLICY                                                                                        A
 AA.1.1.        Aircraft and Equipment Readiness
                TR: AFI 21-101 and Repair Enterprise 21 Fact Sheet                                                                       A
                (https://acc.dau.mil/CommunityBrowser.aspx?id=32781
 AA.1.2.        Maintenance Concept
                                                                                                                                         A
                TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-129
 AA.1.3.        Reliability and Maintainability (R&M)
                                                                                                                                         A
                TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-118 and TO 00-35D-54.
 AA.1.4.        Operating Instructions (OI)
                                                                                                                                         A
                TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 33-360
 AA.1.5.        Support Agreements (SA)
                                                                                                                                         A
                TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 25-201
 AA.1.6.        Modification and Configuration Management
                                                                                                                                         A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.1.7.        Maintenance Information Systems (MIS)
                                                                                                                                         B
                TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-116, AFCSM 21-556 volume 2, and TO 00-20-2
 AA.1.8.        Maintenance Performance Indicator Metrics and Health of the Fleet
                                                                                                                                         B
                TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-103
 AA.1.9.        Personnel Utilization
                                                                                                                                         A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.1.10.       Maintenance Repair Priorities
                                                                                                                                         A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.1.11.       Minimum Essential System Listing (MESL)
                                                                                                                                         A
                TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-103
 AA.1.12.       Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS), and AEF Reporting Tool (ART)
                                                                                                                                         A
                TR: AFI 10-201, AFI 10-244 and https://aefcenter.afpc.randolph.af.mil/
 AA.1.13.       Historical Aircraft and Equipment Records
                                                                                                                                         A
                TR: AFI 21-101 and T.O. 00-20-1
 AA.1.14.       Maintenance Scheduling Effectiveness
                                                                                                                                         A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.2.          MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION KEY LEADER RESPONSIBILITIES
 AA.2.1.        Wing Commander (WG/CC)
                                                                                                                                         A
                TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
 AA.2.2.        Wing Vice Commander (WG/CV)
                                                                                                                                         A
                TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
 AA.2.3.        Maintenance Group Commander (MXG/CC)
                                                                                                                                         A
                TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
 AA.2.4.        Maintenance Group Deputy Commander (MXG/CD)
                                                                                                                                         A
                TR: AFI 21-101



                                                         154
2AX7X REQUIREMENTS                                                                                           ATTACHMENT 23
                                          2AX7X Specialty Training Standard
                                      AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN

 1. Tasks                                                                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                Provided
 Knowledge And Technical References                                                                A          B           C
                                                                                               3-Skill Level 5-Skill Level    7-Skill Level
                                                                                                   (1)           (1)         (1)        (2)
                                                                                                  Crse           CDC         Crse      CDC

 AA.2.5.        MXG Superintendent (SUPT)
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.2.6.        Squadron Commander (SQ/CC) Responsibilities
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.2.7.        Operations Officer and Maintenance Superintendent (MX SUPT) Responsibilities
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.2.8.        Flight Commander/Flight Chief
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.2.9.        AMU OIC/Superintendent (SUPT)
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.2.10.       Section NCOIC
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.2.11.       Production Superintendent (Pro Super)
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.2.12.       Expediter
                                                                                                                                        B
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.3.          FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS SQUADRON (MOS)
                TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
 AA.3.1.        Maintenance Operations Flight (MOF)
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.3.2.        Maintenance Training Flight (MTF)
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 36-2232
 AA.3.3.        Programs and Resources Flight
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.3.4.        Quality Assurance (QA) Flight
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.4.          FUNCTIONS OF AIRCRAFT/HELICOPTER MAINTENANCE SQUADRON
                (AMXS/HMXS)
                TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
 AA.4.1.        Aircraft Maintenance Unit (AMU)
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.4.2.        Aircrew and Maintenance Debrief Section
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.4.3.        Aircraft Section
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.4.4.        Specialist Section
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.4.5.        Weapons Section
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.4.6.        Plans, Scheduling and Documentation Section (PS&D)
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.4.7.        Support Section
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101




                                                          155
2AX7X REQUIREMENTS                                                                                          ATTACHMENT 23
                                          2AX7X Specialty Training Standard
                                      AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN

 1. Tasks                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                    Provided
 Knowledge And Technical References                                                                    A          B           C
                                                                                                   3-Skill Level 5-Skill Level    7-Skill Level
                                                                                                       (1)           (1)         (1)        (2)
                                                                                                      Crse           CDC         Crse      CDC

 AA.5.          FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE SQUADRON (MXS)
                TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
 AA.5.1.        Accessories Flight
                                                                                                                                            A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.5.2.        Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) Flight
                                                                                                                                            A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.5.3.        Armament Flight
                                                                                                                                            A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.5.4.        Avionics Flight
                                                                                                                                            A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.5.5.        Fabrication Flight
                                                                                                                                            A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.5.6.        Maintenance Flight
                                                                                                                                            A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.5.7.        Munitions Flight
                                                                                                                                            A
                TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-201
 AA.5.8.        Propulsion Flight
                                                                                                                                            A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.5.9.        Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE) Flight
                                                                                                                                            A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.6.          AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND RESPONSIBILITIES
 AA.6.1.        Air Logistics Centers (ALC)
                TR: AFMCMD (Mission Directives) 406, 407 and 410.
                Located at: https://www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/pdl/afmc/md.htm,
                                                                                                                                            A
                OO-ALC Brochure located at: http://www.hill.af.mil/main/index.html,
                WR-ALC: http://www.robins.af.mil/units/402mw.asp and
                OC-ALC: http://www.tinker.af.mil/units/
 AA.6.2.        Air Force Flight Test Center
                TR: AFMCMD 404 located at https://www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/pdl/afmc/md.htm
                and Flight Test Center Fact Sheet locate at:                                                                                A
                http://www.edwards.af.mil/library/factsheets/factsheet_print.asp?fsID=6573&page=
                1
 AA.6.3.        Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Center (AMARC)
                TR: AFMCMD 415 located at:
                                                                                                                                            A
                https://www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/pdl/afmc/md.ht m and
                http://www.dm.af.mil/units/amarc.asp
 AA.7.          MAINTENANCE TRAINING
 AA.7.1.        Types of Training
                                                                                                                                            A
                TR: AFI 36-2232 and the ETCA site located at: https://etca.randolph.af.mil/
 AA.7.2.        Training Documentation
                                                                                                                                            A
                TR: AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101, and AFI 36-2201 (Vol. 1-6)
 AA.7.3.        Special Certification Rosters
                                                                                                                                            A
                ATR: AFI 21-101
 AA.7.4.        Maintenance Qualification Program (MQP)
                                                                                                                                            A
                TR: AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101 and AFPD 10-9
 AA.7.5.        Training Forecast / Request
                                                                                                                                            A
                TR: AFI 36-2232 and AFI 21-101


                                                           156
2AX7X REQUIREMENTS                                                                                              ATTACHMENT 23
                                          2AX7X Specialty Training Standard
                                      AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN

 1. Tasks                                                                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                Provided
 Knowledge And Technical References                                                                A          B           C
                                                                                               3-Skill Level 5-Skill Level    7-Skill Level
                                                                                                   (1)           (1)         (1)        (2)
                                                                                                  Crse           CDC         Crse      CDC

 AA.7.6.        Training Development Process
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101, and AETCI 36-2601
 AA.8.          PERSONNEL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
 AA.8.1.        Capability Based Manpower Standard and Logistics Composite Model (LCOM)
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFMAN 38-208 Volume 3, AFI 38-201, AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
 AA.8.2.        Unit Manpower Document (UMD) and Unit Personnel Manpower Roster (UPMR)
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 38-201, AFTTP 3-21.1 and AFI 36-2110
 AA.9.          MAINTENANCE SUPPLY
 AA.9.1.        Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS) Supply Support
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
 AA.9.2.        Readiness Spares Packages
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
 AA.9.3.        Consumables Management
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101, AFTTP 3-21.1 and AFMAN 23-110
 AA.9.4.        Equipment Items
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101, AFTTP 3-21.1 and AFMAN 23-110
 AA.9.5.        Special Purpose Recoverable Authorized Maintenance (SPRAM) Assets
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and AFI 21-103
 AA.9.6.        Supply Assets Requiring Functional Check, Calibration, or Operational Flight
                Programming                                                                                                             A
                TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
 AA.9.7.        Precious Metals Recovery Program
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFMAN 23-110
 AA.9.8.        Supply Points
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
 AA.9.9.        Local Manufacture
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.9.10.       Repair Cycle Assets / Supply Management Products
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 23-110 and AFI 21-101
 AA.9.11.       Tail Number Bins (TNB)
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.9.12.       Maintenance Repair / Supply Delivery Priorities
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.9.13.       Classified Assets
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101 and TO 00-20-1
 AA.9.14.       Hazardous Materials
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFMAN 24-204_IP, AFI 91-301, AFI 24-202, AFMAN 23-110
 AA.9.15.       Supply Deficiency and Discrepancy Reporting
                                                                                                                                        B
                TR: AFI 23-110 and AFI 21-101
 AA.10.         TECHNICAL ORDER POLICY
                TR: TO 00-5-1, AFI 21-101, AFI 21-303
 AA.10.1.       Use of Technical Orders (TO), TO Supplements and Publications
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
 AA.10.2.       Technical Order Update Process
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 63-101
 AA.10.3.       Technical Order Waivers
                                                                                                                                        A
                TR: AFI 63-101 and AFI 21-101

                                                          157
2AX7X REQUIREMENTS                                                                                          ATTACHMENT 23
                                          2AX7X Specialty Training Standard
                                      AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN

 1. Tasks                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                    Provided
 Knowledge And Technical References                                                                    A          B           C
                                                                                                   3-Skill Level 5-Skill Level    7-Skill Level
                                                                                                       (1)           (1)         (1)        (2)
                                                                                                      Crse           CDC         Crse      CDC

 AA.11.         MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS AND PROGRAMS
 AA.11.1.       Cannibalization Program
                                                                                                                                            A
                TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
 AA.11.2.       Restricted Maintenance Areas
                                                                                                                                            A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.11.3.       Red Ball Maintenance
                TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
 AA.11.4.       Aircraft/Equipment Impoundment Program
                                                                                                                                            A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.11.5.       Maintenance Standardization and Evaluation Program (MSEP) Purpose and
                Inspection Types                                                                                                            B
                TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
 AA.11.6.       Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Program
                                                                                                                                            A
                TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2232 and AFTTP 3-21.1
 AA.11.7.       Dropped Object Prevention (DOP) Program
                                                                                                                                            A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.11.8.       Tool Management
                                                                                                                                            A
                TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
 AA.11.9.       Tool Accountability
                                                                                                                                            A
                TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
 AA.11.9.1.     Marking and Tool Identification
                                                                                                                                            A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.11.9.2.     Locally Manufactured, Developed, or Modified Tools and Equipment
                                                                                                                                            A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.11.9.3.     Lost Item/Tool Procedures
                                                                                                                                            A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.11.10.      Maintenance Recovery Team
                                                                                                                                            A
                TR: AFI 21-101
 AA.11.11.      Aging Aircraft / Equipment Issues
                                                                                                                                            A
                TR: AFI 21-101, DoD 5010.12-M and DMSMS Guide Book (SD-22)
 AA.11.12.      Quality Assurance Evaluators
                                                                                                                                            A
                TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
 AA.11.13.      Computer Applications
                TR: AF Portal, AF E-Publishing site, AF IT E-Learning site, Advanced Distributed
                Learning Services (ADLS) site, AF Center of Excellence for Knowledge
                                                                                                                                            A
                Management (AFKM) site, Defense Travel System (DTS) training site, Air & Space
                Expeditionary Force Center site and the AF Center for Electronic Distribution of
                Systems (AFCEDS) site
 AA.11.14.      Mobility
                TR: AFTTP 3-21.1, AFI 10-403, AFI 21-101, and the AFPAM 10-100 (Airman’s                                                    A
                Manual)
 AA.11.15.      Crashed Damaged or Disabled Aircraft Recovery (CDDAR) Program
                                                                                                                                            A
                TR: AFI 21-101




                                                           158
2AX7X REQUIREMENTS                                                                                              ATTACHMENT 23
