DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                CFETP 6C0X1
HEADQUARTERS US AIR FORCE                  PARTS I AND II
WASHINGTON DC 20330-1060                   1 January 2012




                        AFSC 6C0X1
                       CONTRACTING




                    CAREER FIELD
             EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                              CONTRACTING
                                               AFSC 6C0X1

                                                               Table of Contents
PART I
PREFACE ..................................................................................................................................... 1

ABBREVIATIONS AND TERMS EXPLAINED .................................................................... 2

SECTION A - GENERAL INFORMATION ............................................................................ 6
     Purpose
     Uses
     Coordination and Approval

SECTION B - CAREER PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION .................................... 9
       Specialty Descriptions
       Input or Helper Level (6C011)
       Contracting Apprentice Level (6C031)
       Contracting Journeyman Level (6C051)
       Contracting Craftsman Level (6C071)
       Contracting Superintendent Level (6C091)
       Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM) (6C000)
     Skill and Career Progression
       Unique Aspects of Contracting Career Field
       Input or Helper (Entry level)
       Apprentice (3-skill level)
       Journeyman (5-skill level)
       Craftsman (7-skill level)
       Superintendent (9-skill level)
       Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM/6C000)
     Training Decisions
     Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Academic Programs
     Acquisition Professional Development Program (APDP)/
             DOD Career Development Program
     Special Experience Identifiers (SEIs)
     Career Field Path

SECTION C - SKILL LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS ......................................... 30
     Purpose
     Specialty Qualification
            Input or Helper, 1-skill level (AFSC 6C011) Training Requirements
            Apprentice, 3-skill level (AFSC 6C031) Training Requirements
            Journeyman, 5-skill level (AFSC 6C051) Training Requirements
            Craftsman, 7-skill level (AFSC 6C071) Training Requirements
            Superintendent, 9-skill level (AFSC 6C091) Training Requirements
            Chief Enlisted Manager, (AFSC 6C000) Training Requirements

                                                                             i
SECTION D - RESOURCE/TRAINING CONSTRAINTS .................................................. 37

SECTION E – TRANSITION TRAINING GUIDE .............................................................. 37




                                                       ii
PART II
SECTION A - SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD (STS) ............................................. 38

SECTION B – COURSE OBJECTIVES LIST ...................................................................... 40

SECTION C – SUPPORT MATERIALS ................................................................................ 40

SECTION D - TRAINING COURSE INDEX ....................................................................... 40
     Formal Schools
     Requirements
     Enlisted Professional Military Education
     Training Program Directives
     Training Program Points of Contact

SECTION E – MAJCOM REQUIREMENTS ...................................................................... 43



____________________________________
OPR: SAF/AQC
CERTIFIED BY: CMSGT GLENN P. DUMONT
SUPERSEDES: CFETP, 1 March 2005
NUMBER OF PRINTED PAGES: 54




                                                            iii
                             CONTRACTING SPECIALTY
                                   AFSC 6C0X1
                    CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
PART I
PREFACE

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for this specialty.

1.1. This CFETP enables individuals in the contracting community to understand the training and
education necessary for a clear career path to success.

1.2. The CFETP incorporates Acquisition Professional Development Program (APDP) requirements
as they apply to the appropriate contracting career path.

1.3. The CFETP also provides supervisors the guidance needed to train today's work force for
tomorrow's jobs. The guidance provided in this plan ensures individuals in the contracting specialty
receive effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their careers.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts.

2.1. Part 1 provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression information,
duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C associates each level
with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, training, experience and other). Section D
identifies resource constraints.

2.2. Part 2 includes the following: Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and
includes duties, tasks, technical references to support training, Air Education and Training
Command (AETC) conducted training, wartime course, core tasks, and correspondence course
requirements. Sections B and C are not currently used. Section D identifies the source of formal
school information, describes and provides references to APDP Contracting career path checklists,
describes the Air Force enlisted professional military education policy, and lists the MAJCOM
training program points of contact and USAF training directives. Section E explains the MAJCOM
process for terms of submission of mandatory training requirement waivers.

3. All contracting personnel should become familiar with the CFETP.

3.1. The on-line CFETP is available at the Official Source Site for Air Force Administrative
Publications and Forms.

3.2. Supervisors will maintain a copy of this CFETP for each enlisted member (except fully
qualified Senior NCOs) in the member’s AF Form 623, On-the-Job-Training record.



                                                   1
ABBREVIATIONS AND TERMS EXPLAINED

Acquisition Professional Development Program (APDP).               The program that implements the
DOD Career Development Program (defined below).

Advanced Training (AT). Formal course that provides individuals qualified in one or more
positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills and knowledge to enhance their
expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career Airmen at the advanced level of the AFS.

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). The Air Force focal point for the designated career
field within a functional community. Serves as the primary advocate for the career field, addressing
issues and coordinating functional concerns across various staffs. Responsible for the career field
policy and guidance.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a
particular job type or duty position. Supervisors use them to document task qualifications. The tasks
on the AFJQS are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Air Force Specialty (AFS). Air Force job positions requiring specific skills and qualifications.

Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC). Basic grouping of Air Force positions requiring similar skills
and qualifications. Air Force specialty descriptions are published in ENLISTED CLASSIFICATION
DIRECTORY.

American Council on Education (ACE). The American Council on Education (ACE) has
recommended undergraduate and graduate credit granted by civilian educational institutions for
certain courses in this CFETP.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive,
multipurpose document encapsulating the entire spectrum of training for a career field. It outlines a
logical growth plan that includes training resources. The CFETP is designed to make career field
training identifiable, eliminate duplication, and ensure the training is budget defensible.

Certification. A formal indication of a person's ability to perform a task to required standards.

Certification Official. For the 6C0X1 career field, the certification official is synonymous with the
trainer. Third party certification requirements have been removed from the STS.

Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). Activated in April 1972, CCAF provides enlisted
members the opportunity to earn associate degrees in applied sciences directly related to their Air
Force Specialties. The Air Force, through CCAF, is the only military service authorized by Congress
to confer an associate degree on its enlisted members. CCAF was accredited by the Southern
Association of Colleges and Schools, Commission on Occupational Education Institutions in 1980.
CCAF staff continuously reviews and evaluates the enlisted education and training of schools
affiliated with CCAF to determine college level applicability toward CCAF degree requirements.
Upon completion of Basic Training, all enlisted members are automatically enrolled in CCAF.


                                                   2
Continuous Learning. Department of Defense policy that applies to all civilian and military DOD
Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics Workforce (DOD ATLWF). Each member should strive to
receive 40 Continuous Learning Points (CLPs) each year in order to accumulate the required 80
CLPs every 2 years. Points can be received for a variety of training activities. Refer to
http://ww3.safaq.hq.af.mil/career/index.asp for program application guidance and the Air Force
Personnel Services refer to https://gum.afpc.randolph.af.mil.

Continuation Training (CT).        Additional training provided to increase skills and knowledge
beyond the minimum required.

Contracting Strategy Council (CSC). The Air Force Contracting Strategy Council is composed of
senior contracting professionals who provide leadership and oversight to monitor the progress of
implementing and periodically updating the Air Force Contracting Strategic Plan.

Core Task. Tasks identified as minimum qualification requirements within an AFSC, regardless of
duty position. Core tasks may be specified for a particular skill level or in general across the AFSC.
Guidance for core tasks can be found in the applicable CFETP narrative. Core tasks identified in the
Specialty Training Standard (STS) do not require third-party (Certifying Official) certification.

Course Objectives List (COL). A publication, derived from initial skills course training standard,
identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective standards provided to achieve a 3-
skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to conduct graduate evaluations in
accordance with AFI 36-2201, Volume I – Training Development, Delivery, and Evaluation and
Volume III - On the Job Training Administration.

DOD Career Development Program. DOD implementation of the Career Development Program
for Acquisition Personnel resulting from the Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act
(DAWIA), Public Law 101-510. See also: Acquisition Professional Development Program (APDP),
defined above.

Duty Position Tasks. Those tasks that are required of contracting Airmen/NCOs during training at a
given skill level. The tasks are related to the specific area within the contracting specialty to which
the Airman/NCO is assigned.

Functional Manager (FM). Senior leaders, designated by the appropriate functional authority (FA)
who provide day-to-day management responsibility over specific functional communities at the
MAJCOM, FOA, DRU, or ARC level. While they should maintain an institutional focus in regards
to resource development and distribution, FMs are responsible for ensuring their specialties are
equipped, developed, and sustained to meet the functional community’s mission as well as
encourage force development opportunities in order to meet future needs of the total Air Force
mission.

Initial Skills Training. A formal resident course which results in award of an entry level career
specialty.

Master Task Listing (MTL). A listing of tasks required for a duty position (this includes
mandatory core tasks and any other duty tasks determined by the supervisor).

                                                  3
Master Training Plan (MTP). As a minimum the plan must include, a MTL, current CFETP or
AFJQS, and a locally developed AF Form 797 (if required). This plan will include milestones for
tasks and

 completion (identify the projected timeframes the trainee will complete their core tasks and each set
of CDCs as required). A MTP is required for each work center and tailored for each individual in
upgrade or qualification training.

Mission Ready Airman (MRA). A graduate of the Contracting Apprentice Course which included
hands-on training of selected tasks to the competency level specified in the STS. Competency is
defined by the proficiency code.

Occupational Survey Report (OSR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational
survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-The-Job Training (OJT). A delivery method used to certify personnel in both upgrade (skill
level award) and job qualification (duty position certification) training. OJT is hands-on, over-the-
shoulder training conducted at the duty location.

OJT Trainer. A qualified person, recommended by the supervisor, qualified on trainer tasks, who
teaches Airmen to perform specific tasks through OJT methods and records task qualifications

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an
individual in a specific duty position. This portion of the dual channel on-the-job training program
occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance
skills required to do the job.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional package designed for use at the unit to
qualify, or aid qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of equipment. It may be
printed, computer-based, or in another audiovisual medium.

Specialty Training. A mix of formal (technical school) and informal (on-the-job) training to
qualify an Airman/NCO for upgrade to a higher skill level within an AFS.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force
specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge an Airman in that specialty may be expected to perform or
know how to perform on the job. It identifies the training provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, and 7-skill
level within an enlisted AFS. It further serves as a contract between AETC and the functional user to
show which overall training requirements for an AFSC are taught in formal schools and
correspondence courses.

Specialty Training Requirements Team (STRT). A meeting at which the Air Force Career Field
Manager (AFCFM) and other functional leaders determine and present training requirements to the
Air Education and Training Command (AETC) Training Pipeline Manager (TPM) and Training
Manager (TM).



                                                  4
Subject Matter Expert (SME). A subject matter expert is an individual who exhibits the highest
level of expertise in performing a specialized job, task or skill within an organization.

Training Capacity. The maximum capability of a training setting to provide training on specified
requirements, based on the availability of resources.

Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-the-
job, field training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.).

Upgrade Training (UGT).       Mandatory training that leads to attainment of a higher level of
proficiency.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum of the Air Force Career Field Manager
(AFCFM), MAJCOM functional managers (FMs), Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC
training personnel that determine career progression and training requirements.




                                                5
SECTION A - GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Purpose. This CFETP provides information necessary for AFCFMs, MAJCOM FMs,
commanders, training managers, supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an
effective career field training program.

1.1. Types of Training. This plan outlines training that individuals in this AFS should receive to
develop and progress throughout their careers. This plan identifies initial skills, upgrade,
qualification, advanced, and proficiency training.

1.1.1. Initial Skills Training. Initial skills training is the AFS specific training an individual
receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill
level. Normally, this training is conducted by AETC at one of the technical training centers.

1.1.2. Upgrade Training. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification
requirements, core tasks, and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the
3-, 5-, 7-, and 9-skill levels.

1.1.3. Qualification Training. Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training
designed to qualify an Airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during
and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills/knowledge
required to do the job.

1.1.4. Advanced Training.       Advanced training is formal specialty training used for selected
Airmen.

1.1.5. Proficiency Training. Proficiency training is additional training, either in-residence or
exportable advanced training courses, or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their
skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade.

1.1.6. Mandatory Standardized Training. Mandatory standardized training is AFS specific
training developed by the career field for utilization and certification on core tasks

1.2. Multi-Purpose. The CFETP is a management tool that provides the training requirements,
courses, and resource constraints pertaining to the 6C0X1 career field.

1.2.1. Management Tool. The plan serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and
evaluate a career field-training program. It helps supervisors identify training at the appropriate
point in an individual's career.

1.2.2. Training Requirements. The plan identifies task and knowledge training requirements for
each skill level in the contracting specialty and recommends training/education throughout each
phase of an individual's career.

1.2.3. Training Courses. The CFETP lists training courses available in the contracting specialty,
identifies sources of training, and the training delivery method.


                                                  6
1.2.4. Resource Constraints. The plan identifies major resource constraints, which impact full
implementation of the desired career field training process.

2. Uses. FMs and supervisors at all levels will use the CFETP to ensure comprehensive and
cohesive training programs are available for each individual within the AFSC.

2.1. AETC Training Personnel. AETC training personnel will develop or revise formal resident,
non-resident, field and exportable training based on requirements established by users and
documented in Part 2 of the CFETP. They will work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition
strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide identified training.

2.2 MAJCOM FMs. FMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory
initial, upgrade, and proficiency requirements. Identified requirements can be satisfied through OJT,
resident, contract, or exportable training or courses.

2.3 Mandatory Training Requirements. Each individual will complete the mandatory training
requirements specified in this plan. Use the list of courses in Part 2 as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM at SAF/AQC approves and maintains the CFETP.
SAF/AQCX is the office of coordinating responsibility for the establishment of training policy to
support the entire contracting career field. MAJCOM FMs and AETC training personnel review the
CFETP annually to ensure currency, accuracy, and relevancy.

3.1. Levels of Responsibility. The following training responsibilities are assigned to each Air
Force organizational level in accordance with this CFETP and AFI 36-2201V3, Air Force Training
Program On the Job Training Administration.

3.1.1. SAF/AQC. SAF/AQC monitors the progress of contracting training course development
(entry, transition, and supplemental) and eliminates roadblocks preventing timely course
development.

3.1.2. AFCFM. The AFCFM submits requests for field assistance on development efforts delayed
due to lack of technical expertise at the contracting schoolhouse, conducts formal workshops to
establish contracting training policy and direction of future contracting training, and, with
SAF/AQCX, monitors the overall effectiveness of the contracting training program.

3.1.3. AETC Training Personnel. AETC training personnel will develop/revise formal resident
and exportable training based on requirements established by the contracting community and
documented in Part 2 of the CFETP. They also work with SAF/AQCX to develop procurement and
acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified training.

3.1.4. MAJCOM Contracting Training Managers. MAJCOM contracting training managers
ensure MAJCOM training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial skills and upgrade
training requirements. Identified requirements can be satisfied through OJT, resident training,
contract training, or exportable courseware/courses. MAJCOM developed requirements to support
this AFS can be identified for inclusion in this plan and must not duplicate existing requirements
without the consent of the AFCFM.


                                                    7
3.1.5. Unit Commanders. Unit commanders monitor the effectiveness of training. Unit
commanders notify MAJCOMs of formal training shortfalls to ensure timely correction and
redirection of formal training emphasis; promote an atmosphere for the cross utilization of
contracting personnel; develop a solid job rotation program to ensure the best possible training
environment for contracting technicians; establish a local quality training program to ensure trainers
meet the requirements to conduct proper training of all contracting trainees; and provide assistance
to outside agencies with contracting personnel assigned to ensure the same level of training is
afforded to all contracting trainees.

3.1.6. Unit Superintendent. Unit Superintendent’s monitor the effectiveness of the unit training
program on behalf of the unit commander.

3.1.7. Unit Training Manager (UTM). Unit Training Managers implement and manage training
programs, policies, and procedures, as directed by higher headquarters, commanders, and Base
Training.

3.1.8. Supervisor. Supervisor’s must plan conduct and evaluate training. The trainer and
supervisor may be the same individual. If necessary, the supervisor may assign someone else to
provide the training.

3.1.9. Trainer. Trainers plan, conduct and document training. They are selected based upon their
experience and ability to provide instruction to trainees. They must attend the Air Force Training
Course and maintain required task qualifications.

3.1.10. Individual. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in
this plan.




                                                  8
SECTION B - CAREER PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION

4. Specialty Descriptions.

4.1. Input or Helper Level (6C011).

4.1.1. Specialty Description. A student scheduled for, or attending, the Contracting Apprentice
Course.

4.1.2. Duties and Responsibilities.

4.1.2.1. Initial Skills Training. Attend Contracting Apprentice Course and graduate with necessary
proficiency of the required tasks.

4.2. Contracting Apprentice Level (6C031).

4.2.1. Specialty Description. Purchases commodities, services, and construction, normally within
the simplified acquisition threshold using commercial or simplified acquisition procedures.
Administers purchase/delivery orders, blanket purchase agreements, maintenance agreements, and
other contractual instruments within the simplified acquisition threshold. Processes automated
contracting system transactions.
4.2.2. Duties and Responsibilities.
4.2.2.1. General Contracting.      Organizes purchase request data and provides advice to
government and contractor personnel on contract or business-related issues. Prepares basic
memoranda. Prepares documents, processes transactions, and maintains files applicable to
automated contracting systems and other electronic methods. Documents and maintains hard-copy
contracting files.
4.2.2.2. Planning and scheduling. Performs market research. Reviews requirement documents to
include descriptions, government-furnished property, availability of funds, justifications for sole
source or brand name purchasing, and delivery requirements. Maximizes use of commercial items
purchasing practices. Recommends appropriate contracting methods and types to include strategic
sourcing.
4.2.2.3. Solicitation and buying. Processes purchase actions with minimal assistance. Determines
applicability of contract clauses and special provisions with minimal assistance. Prepares and issues
solicitations normally within the simplified acquisition threshold with minimal assistance. Uses
commercial and simplified acquisition procedures. Ensures solicitations are publicly advertised
when required. Obtains and considers factors relating to price such as transportation, options, Buy
American Act, and multiple or “all or none” awards. Obtains and evaluates past performance
information. Evaluates responsiveness of bids and offers. Prepares determination of contractor
responsibility. Prepares bid abstracts. Amends and cancels solicitations. Reviews and evaluates
bids/offers. Recommends rejection of bids. Recommends contract award.



                                                 9
4.2.2.4. Administration. Conducts site visits to determine adequacy of contractor compliance and
customer satisfaction. Interviews contractor employees to determine labor law compliance. Assesses
contractor compliance and determines appropriate actions. Cancels purchase/delivery orders.

4.2.2.5. Contingency. Prepares to support contingency contracting at stateside or deployed
locations by completing required training in a timely manner. Work diligently towards obtaining the
required 24 semester hours of business courses for APDP certification in contracting. Although the
business course work is not required for upgrade, it is required for position certification. Attends
required DAU-sponsored training in pursuit of contracting certification for the position assigned.

4.2.2.6. Evaluation. Assesses contractor adherence to delivery schedules and price and determines
appropriate actions. Prepares and presents such evaluations in the form of correspondence and
briefings. Participates in the unit self-inspection program.

4.3. Contracting Journeyman Level (6C051).

4.3.1. Specialty Description. Purchases commodities, services, and construction using commercial,
simplified acquisition, and other procurement procedures. Administers purchase/delivery orders,
blanket purchase agreements, maintenance agreements, and other contractual instruments. Processes
automated contracting systems transactions.

4.3.2. Duties and Responsibilities.

4.3.2.1. General Contracting. Analyzes facts and principles and draw conclusions in accordance
with sound business practices. Organizes purchase request data and provides advice to government
and contractor personnel on contract or business-related issues. Obtains data on marketing trends,
supply sources, and trade information. Prepares memoranda, determinations and findings, and
justifications and approvals. Documents and maintains hard-copy contract files. Processes
transactions and maintains files applicable to automated contracting systems and other electronic
methods. Assesses contractor compliance with bonding, insurance, and tax requirements, as
applicable. Determines appropriate actions when discrepancies are noted. Supports studies pursuant
to competitive sourcing. When appointed, may function as a contracting officer.

4.3.2.2. Planning and scheduling. Performs market research. Reviews requirement documents to
include, but not limited to, descriptions, government-furnished property, availability of funds,
justifications for sole source, brand name purchasing, and delivery requirements. Reviews proposed
documents to ensure contractual correctness and compliance with regulations, directives, laws,
statutes, and contracting policies. Reviews government estimates. Determines appropriate
contracting methods and contract types to include strategic sourcing. Maximizes use of commercial
items and practices. Interprets and explains government procedures and regulations.

4.3.2.3. Solicitation and buying. Processes purchase actions. Determines applicability of contract
clauses and special provisions. Prepares and issues solicitations for commodities, services and
construction requirements, normally within the simplified acquisition threshold. Uses commercial
and simplified acquisition procedures such as purchase/delivery orders, blanket purchase
agreements, or maintenance agreements with little to no assistance. Ensures solicitations are publicly
advertised when required. Obtains and considers factors relating to price such as transportation,
options, Buy American Act, multiple or “all or none” awards. Reviews and evaluates cost and
pricing data/information. Analyzes and reviews award actions. Obtains and evaluates past
                                                 10
performance information. Determines contractor responsibility. Evaluates responsiveness of bids
and offers. Prepares and conducts negotiations. Amends and cancels solicitations. Reviews and
evaluates bids/offers. Recommends contract award. Processes protests or claims.
4.3.2.4. Administration. Conducts site visits to determine adequacy of contractor compliance and
customer satisfaction. Interviews contractor employees to determine labor law compliance. Trains
and monitors quality assurance personnel. Assesses contractor compliance and determines
appropriate actions. Knows the procedures to resolves claims, disputes and appeals. Terminates
contracts and administers termination settlements. Closeout of contracts, to include storage, handling
and disposal of contract files.
4.3.2.5. Contingency. Provides contingency contracting support at stateside or deployed locations.
Continues aggressive pursuit of APDP certification at the next higher level.
4.3.2.6. Evaluation. Evaluates methods and procedures used in purchasing commodities, services,
and construction. Assesses contractor adherence to delivery schedules and price and determines
appropriate action. Prepares and presents evaluations in the form of correspondence and briefings.
Participates in the unit self-inspection program.
4.4. Contracting Craftsman Level (6C071).
4.4.1. Specialty Description. Supervises purchasing of commodities, services and construction
through simplified acquisition procedures, negotiation, sealed bidding, and administration of
contracts and contractual instruments. Prepares, uses, and evaluates automated contracting system
products. Functions as a contracting officer when appointed. Inspects and evaluates contracting
activities.
4.4.2. Duties and Responsibilities.
4.4.2.1. General Contracting. Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions using sound
business judgment. Advise government and contractor personnel on contracting related issues.
Obtains data on marketing trends, supply sources, and trade information. Prepares memoranda,
determinations and findings, and justifications and approvals. Documents and maintains hard copy
contract files. Prepares documents, processes transactions, and maintains files applicable to
automated contracting systems and other electronic methods. Analyzes statistical data pertinent to
contracting functions and determines appropriate action. Assesses contractor compliance with
bonding, insurance, and tax requirements, as applicable. Supports studies pursuant to competitive
sourcing. When appointed, may function as a contracting officer.
4.4.2.1.1. Quality Assurance Program Coordinator. May be assigned to manage the Quality
Assurance Program and provide training to quality assurance personnel.
4.4.2.2. Planning and scheduling. Performs market research. Reviews requirements documents
to include descriptions, government-furnished property, availability of funds, justifications for sole
source or brand name purchasing, and delivery requirements. Reviews proposed documents to
ensure contractual correctness and compliance with regulations, directives, laws, statutes, and
contracting policies. Reviews government estimates. Determines appropriate contracting methods
and contract types to include strategic sourcing. Maximizes use of commercial items and practices.
Interprets and explains government procedures and regulations.


                                                 11
4.4.2.3. Solicitation and buying. Determines applicability of contract clauses and special
provisions. Prepares solicitations, solicits proposals for commodities, services and construction
requirements at and above the simplified acquisition threshold. Ensures solicitations are publicly
advertised as appropriate. Analyzes and reviews award actions. Obtains and evaluates past
performance information. Determines contractor responsibility. Evaluates responsiveness of bids
and offers. Reviews and evaluates cost and pricing data/information to develop the government’s
position for negotiations or to determine price fair and reasonable. Conducts negotiations. Prepares
bid abstracts. Amends and cancels solicitations. Rejects bids. Reviews and evaluates bids/offers.
Prepares contract award with no assistance. Processes protests.

4.4.2.4. Administration. Conducts site visits to determine adequacy of contractor compliance and
customer satisfaction. Interviews contractor employees to determine labor law compliance. Trains
and monitors quality assurance personnel. Assesses contractor compliance and determines
appropriate actions. Resolves claims, disputes and appeals. Analyzes the need for and issuance of
show cause and cure notices. Terminates contracts and administers termination settlements.
Closeout of contracts, to include storage, handling and disposal of contract files.

4.4.2.5. Contingency. Supervises or participates in contingency contracting support at stateside or
deployed locations in support of joint U.S. and allied forces. May be assigned as the unit’s
deployment manager responsible for preparing all assigned personnel for deployment duties.

4.4.2.6. Evaluation. Conducts meetings with contractors to resolve administrative issues.
Evaluates methods and procedures used in purchasing commodities, services, and construction.
Ensures contractor adherence to delivery schedules and price and determines appropriate actions.
Prepares and presents evaluation in the form of correspondence and briefings. Participates in the unit
self-inspection program.

4.5. Contracting Superintendent Level (6C091).

4.5.1. Specialty Description. Functions as senior manager, Air Force contracting officer and staff
advisor. May serve as the squadron first sergeant. Manages retraining program. May manage the
contracting officer warrant program. Provides management analysis using automated contracting
systems. May manage purchasing and contracting of commodities, services and construction using
various complex and simplified acquisition procedures, negotiation and sealed bidding; administers
contract documents; manages personnel engaged in contracting activities and contingency
contracting missions. Related DOD Occupational Subgroup: 551.

4.5.2. Duties and Responsibilities.

4.5.2.1. General Contracting. When appointed, may function as a Contracting Officer. Advises
government and contractor personnel on contracting related issues. Obtains data on marketing
trends, supply source, and trade information. Analyzes statistical data pertinent to contracting
functions. Assesses contractor compliance with bonding, insurance, and tax requirements, as
applicable and determines appropriate actions. Analyzes studies pursuant to competitive sourcing.

4.5.2.1.1. Performs MAJCOM contracting manager functions. Provides management and
establishes command policy for all field activities. Manages command programs such as self-

                                                 12
inspection, in-house/formal training, enlisted career development, contracting retraining, base
support agreements, contingency contracting support, government wide purchase card, and APDP.
Advisor for Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve support.                       Conducts staff
surveillance/assistance visits to review procedures and assure compliance with directives and proper
utilization of resources. Provides executive, managerial, and advisory support to the MAJCOM
contracting division chief as well as contracting squadron commanders.

4.5.2.1.2. May perform First Sergeant duties. Promotes welfare, morale, and health of enlisted
personnel. Advises and assists the commander in maintaining discipline and standards regarding
quality force. Assists the commander in preparing and presenting unit training and information
programs. Supervises care and upkeep of unit dormitories and adjacent grounds. Monitors unit
administration.

4.5.2.1.3. Manages retraining program. Conducts interviews with potential retrainees using
established criteria and methodology.

4.5.2.2. Planning and scheduling. Supervises preparation and administration of contracts and
purchase/delivery orders to include a review of documents such as descriptions, government-
furnished property, availability of funds, justifications for sole source, brand name purchasing, and
delivery requirements. Reviews proposed documents to ensure contractual correctness and
compliance with regulations, directives, laws, statutes, and contracting policies. Maximizes use of
commercial items and practices. Interprets and explains government procedures and regulations.
Controls workflow and monitors status.

4.5.2.3. Solicitation and buying. Chairs, or is a member of, the contract review committee. Checks
subordinates' work for adherence to prescribed regulations and policies. Discusses findings with
subordinates, initiates action to correct deficiencies, and evaluates corrective action. Reviews
applicability of contract clauses and special provisions. Reviews solicitations, proposals for
commodities, services and construction requirements. Reviews and evaluates cost and pricing
data/information. Analyzes and reviews award actions.

4.5.2.4. Administration. Manages personnel conducting site visits to determine adequacy of
contractor compliance and customer satisfaction. Manages those appointed to train and monitors
quality assurance personnel. Resolves claims, disputes and appeals.

4.5.2.5. Contingency. Develops and manages contingency contracting program. Plans and
conducts thorough training and exercise participation. Manages Unit Type Code (UTC) tasking
from higher headquarters. Manages the necessary ancillary training programs that support mobility
requirements.

4.5.2.6. Evaluation. Evaluates methods and procedures used in purchasing commodities, services,
and construction. Assesses contractor adherence to delivery schedules and price and determines
appropriate action. Prepares and presents evaluation in the form of correspondence and briefings.
Manages the unit self-inspection program. Manages training programs.

4.6. Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM) (6C000).


                                                 13
4.6.1. Specialty Description. Leads personnel and policies effecting the purchasing and contracting
of commodities, services and construction. Manages personnel engaged in contracting activities and
contingency contracting missions. Functions as senior enlisted leader, contracting officer and staff
advisor. May serve as a squadron first sergeant. Manages retraining program. May manage the
contracting officer warrant program. May serve as a voting member on the Air Force Contracting
Strategy Council (CSC). Provides management analysis using automated contracting systems.
Related DOD Occupational Subgroup: 551.

4.6.2. Duties and Responsibilities.

4.6.2.1. General Contracting. When appointed, may function as a Contracting Officer. Advises
government and contractor personnel on contracting related issues. Obtains data on marketing
trends, supply source, and trade information. Analyzes statistical data pertinent to contracting
functions. Assesses contractor compliance with bonding, insurance, and tax requirements, as
applicable and determines appropriate actions. Analyzes studies pursuant to competitive sourcing.

4.6.2.1.1. Performs MAJCOM contracting manager functions. Provides management and
establishes command policy for all field activities. Manages command programs such as self-
inspection, in-house/formal training, enlisted career development, contracting retraining, base
support agreements, contingency contracting support, government wide purchase card, and APDP.
Advisor for Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve support.                       Conducts staff
surveillance/assistance visits to review procedures and assure compliance with directives and proper
utilization of resources. Provides executive, managerial, and advisory support to the MAJCOM
contracting division chief as well as contracting squadron commanders.

4.6.2.1.2. May perform first sergeant duties. Promotes welfare, morale, and health of enlisted
personnel. Advises and assists the commander in maintaining discipline and standards regarding
quality force. Assists the commander in preparing and presenting unit training and information
programs. Supervises care and upkeep of unit dormitories and adjacent grounds. Monitors unit
administration.

4.6.2.1.3. Manages retraining program. Conducts interviews with potential retrainees using
established criteria and methodology.

4.6.2.2. Planning and scheduling. Supervises preparation and administration of contracts and
purchase/delivery orders to include a review of documents such as descriptions, government-
furnished property, availability of funds, justifications for sole source, brand name purchasing, and
delivery requirements. Reviews proposed documents to ensure contractual correctness and
compliance with regulations, directives, laws, statutes, and contracting policies. Maximizes use of
commercial items and practices. Interprets and explains government procedures and regulations.
Controls workflow and monitors status.

4.6.2.3. Solicitation and buying. Chairs, or is a member of, the contract review committee. Checks
subordinates' work for adherence to prescribed regulations and policies. Discusses findings with
subordinates, initiates action to correct deficiencies, and evaluates corrective action. Reviews
applicability of contract clauses and special provisions. Reviews solicitations, proposals for


                                                 14
commodities, services and construction requirements. Reviews and evaluates cost and pricing
data/information. Analyzes and reviews award actions.

4.6.2.4. Administration. Manages personnel conducting site visits to determine adequacy of
contractor compliance and customer satisfaction. Manages those appointed to train and monitors
quality assurance personnel. Resolves claims, disputes and appeals.

4.6.2.5. Contingency. Manages contingency contracting program. Plans and conducts thorough
training and exercise participation. Manages Unit Type Code (UTC) tasking from higher
headquarters.   Manages the necessary ancillary training programs that support mobility
requirements.

4.6.2.6. Evaluation. Evaluates methods and procedures used in purchasing commodities, services,
and construction. Assesses contractor adherence to delivery schedules and price and determines
appropriate action. Prepares and presents evaluation in the form of correspondence and briefings.
Manages the unit self-inspection program. Manages training programs.

5. Skill and Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the helper level
to the superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force’s ability to accomplish its
mission. Everyone involved in training must plan, manage, and conduct an effective training
program. The guidance provided in this CFETP will ensure individuals receive viable training at the
appropriate points in their careers.

5.1. Unique Aspects of Contracting Career Field. The contracting career field is dynamic and
demanding. It requires a high level of training, education, and experience. Besides Air Force
technical and OJT requirements, federal law mandates professional certification (detailed in Section
B, Paragraph 8, Acquisition Professional Development Program (APDP)/DOD Career Development
Program, of this plan). The following narrative is supported by AFSC 6C0X1 career field documents
including the Contracting Career Path Pyramid (Figure 1) and related figures. These documents are
referenced below and listed, in their entirety, in Section B, Paragraph 10, of this CFETP.

5.1.1. Job Rotation. Exposure to different positions and aspects of contracting is essential at all
skill levels. Contract specialists need to gain experience in all aspects of operational contracting. To
obtain requisite experience in a variety of contracting actions, or to allow for the rotation of those
who need specific experiences, all specialists must rotate regularly to different positions within a
contracting office.

5.1.2. Training and Education. Requirements for progression in Air Force skill levels, APDP
Contracting Levels, and OJT core task training often overlap. Contracting specialists need to attend
AETC technical training courses, DOD courses in support of APDP certifications in Contracting,
and accredited college courses.

5.1.3. Timelines for Training. Timelines provide a composite of technical, professional, and
military training goals. They combine technical training, OJT, APDP certification, PME, and other
education and training goals. Timelines provide guidance in skill and career progression for Non-
Prior Service and Prior Service (Retrainees). Unless stated as a maximum time, all timelines are
approximate. Supervisors will make adjustments to accommodate the mission.

                                                  15
5.1.3.1. Non-Prior Service. Refer to Figure 2.

5.1.3.2. Prior Service (Retrainees). Refer to Figure 3.

5.1.4. PME. Contracting Airmen attend PME commensurate with grade.

5.2. Input or Helper (Entry Level). Graduate of Basic Military Training School and attending, or
waiting to attend, the Contracting Apprentice Course.
5.3. Apprentice (3-skill level). The initial skills course must be successfully completed for the
award of AFSC 6C031.
5.3.1. Initial Skills Training. Initial skills training consists of the tasks and knowledge training
provided in the apprentice course located at Lackland AFB, TX. The decision to train specific tasks
and knowledge items in the initial skills course is based on a review of occupational survey report
(OSR) data, graduate assessment surveys (GAS), and 6C0X1 subject matter expert (SME) input.
Task and knowledge training requirements are identified in the specialty training standard at Part 2
Sections A and B. The initial skills course uses a Mission Ready Airman (MRA) approach that trains
selected tasks to a partially proficient level and provides portions of training in a simulated
contracting office using scenarios based on real-world contracting actions and employing automated
contracting systems.
5.3.2. Timeline for Training. To assess the training progress of a newly assigned Contracting
Apprentice, refer to the applicable timeline.
5.3.2.1. Non-Prior Service. See Figure 2.
5.3.2.2. Prior Service (Retrainee). See Figure 3.
5.3.3. Job Rotation. To ensure exposure to all core tasks required in upgrade training the the
journeyman level, apprentices must rotate through different positions in the contracting office to
maximize their training experiences.
5.4. Journeyman (5-skill level). For the award of AFSC 6C051, upgrade training consists of;
(1) completion of 5-skill level contracting Career Development Courses (CDC) within twelve
months, (2) minimum time in up-grade training of 12 months for non-prior service (or nine months
for retrainees who possessed a 5-level in their prior AFSC), (3) completion of all core tasks and duty
position tasks identified by supervisor, (4) meet mandatory requirements listed in ENLISTED
CLASSIFICATION DIRECTORY and this CFETP, (5) must have demonstrated Contracting Officer
capabilities executing a home station warrant, not to exceed the Simplified Acquisition Threshold
(SAT) (6) be recommended by supervisor, and (7) be approved by the commander.
5.4.1. Career Development Course. Contracting Career Development Course knowledge training
requirements are identified in the specialty training standard at Part 2, Sections A and B, of this
CFETP.
5.4.2. Timelines for Training. To assess the training progress of a contracting Journeyman, refer
to the applicable timeline.
5.4.2.1. Non-Prior Service. See Figure 2.
                                                 16
5.4.2.2. Prior Service (Retrainee). See Figure 3.
5.4.3. Job Rotation. To ensure exposure and varying experiences, rotation of contracting
journeymen to different positions within the contracting office is required. Assign journeymen as
buyers or contract administrators. Supervisors may delegate limited contracting officer
responsibilities to 5-levels. Journeymen may be expected to serve as trainers for tasks they are
qualified on.

5.4.4. Contingency Deployment. While deployed in support of contingency operations for
periods greater than 30 days, documentation of the OJT records is required for breaks in training.

5.4.5. Airman Leadership School (ALS). Journeymen must attend ALS. Attendance is governed
by several factors. Staff Sergeant-selects must complete ALS before assuming their new rank. Senior
Airmen will attend Airman Leadership School (ALS) once they have obtained 48 months total active
federal military service (TAFMS).

5.4.6. Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS). Individuals will use CDCs to prepare for
promotion testing.

5.4.7. Continuing Education. Journeyman MUST complete a minimum of 24 semester hours in
business-related course work from accredited college sources to obtain their APDP Level I
certification in Contracting. Journeymen should consider continuing their education in pursuit of a
CCAF degree in Contracts Management.

5.5. Craftsman (7- skill level). Begin upgrade training to the 7-skill level upon selection to SSgt.
For award of AFSC 6C071, upgrade training consists of; (1) completion of 7-skill level contracting
Career Development Course (CDC), (2) achievement of APDP Level I certification in Contracting,
(3) completion of Contingency Contracting Course (CON 234), (4) minimum twelve months up-
grade training (six months for retrainees who held a 7-level in previous AFSC) and OJT completion
of all core and duty position tasks, (5) ability to perform Contingency Contracting Officer (CCO)
duties, (6) meet mandatory requirements listed in ENLISTED CLASSIFICATION DIRECTORY
and this CFETP, (7) be recommended by supervisor, and (8) approved by their commander.

5.5.1. Positions. A 7-level can expect to buy and administer more complicated contracts and, in
some cases fill various supervisory and management positions such as flight chief, assistant flight
chief, team lead, superintendent, first sergeant, and/or contracting officer. They can also expect to
serve as trainers.

5.5.2. Timeline for Training. To assess the training progress of a contracting craftsman, refer to
the applicable timeline. The timeline reflects ideal conditions for training. The rank of the retrainee
may impact the time line, requiring early attendance in courses required to obtain APDP Level I
certification in Contracting. Although only Level I certification is required for upgrade, the APDP
program mandates certification to the level identified by the position you fill on the Unit Manning
Document (UMD). Therefore, pursuit of APDP Level II certification is still necessary.
5.5.3. Job Rotation. Personnel in upgrade to the Craftsman level, still require broadening exposures
throughout the contracting career field. Even fully trained and qualified craftsmen must rotate to

                                                  17
allow for sufficient rotation of less trained individuals and to keep their skills refreshed. Craftsmen
may be expected to serve as trainers for tasks they are qualified on.

5.5.4.   Non-Prior Service. See Figure 2.

5.5.5.   Prior Service (Retrainee). See Figure 3.

5.5.6. Contingency Deployment. While deployed in support of contingency operations,
completion of formal OJT programs will not be required

5.5.7. Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA). Upon promotion to TSgt, individuals will
be scheduled to attend the NCOA. TSgts with two years time in grade are authorized and
encouraged to enroll in the SNCOA correspondence course.

5.5.8. Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS). Individuals will use CDCs to prepare for
promotion testing.

5.5.9. Continuing Education. Continued academic education through the CCAF or civilian
education institutions is highly desirable.

5.6. Superintendent (9-skill level). Begin upgrade training to the 9-skill level upon selection to
SMSgt. For award of AFSC 6C091, upgrade training consists of meeting the mandatory
requirements listed in ENLISTED CLASSIFICATION DIRECTORY and the supervisor’s
recommendation.

5.6.1. Positions. 9-level superintendents can be flight chiefs, superintendents, or on MAJCOM or
NAF staffs.

5.6.2. Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy (SNCOA). SMSgt-selects should attend the
in-residence Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy (SNCOA). It is highly desirable that all
personnel complete the SNCOA correspondence course at the earliest time eligible to do so.
Completion of the SNCOA correspondence course is required for personnel in the grade of MSgt
who want to attend Level III courses.

5.6.3. Continuing Education. Additional higher education is highly desirable. SMSgts (and
MSgts serving as squadron superintendents) should complete courses leading to APDP Level III
certification in Contracting.

5.7. Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM/6C000). A CEM is a CMSgt. CEM duties and responsibilities
vary depending on the assignment. Although their training and education requirements are the same
as those of Superintendents, job-specific requirements vary according to assignment. The CEM
code is earned upon promotion to CMSgt.

6. Training Decisions. This CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the contracting career field. The
spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet these training requirements. The
strategy must ensure development of affordable training, elimination of duplication, and prevention

                                                  18
of a fragmented approach to training. The following training decisions were based on a career field
Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) held 19 – 23 July 2010 at Lackland Air Force Base,
Texas.

6.1. Initial Skills. During the 2004 U&TW, Functional Managers decided Airmen entering the
contracting career field will be trained as Mission Ready Airmen (MRA) in selected tasks.
Accordingly, they adjusted the proficiency codes on certain tasks from “3b or 3c” to “2b” or “2c” or
lesser PCK codes. (The STS in Part 2, Sections A and B of this CFETP lists these items.) To
achieve the requisite level of proficiency, FMs determined selected portions of training will be
provided in a simulated contracting office using scenarios based on real-world contracting actions
and employing the contracting automated system. During the 2010 U&TW, FMs built upon this
strategy by adding a number of War Fighting Skills into the MRA curriculum to be provided in a
simulated contingency contracting environment. Additionally, FMs concurred emphasis should
continue to be placed on contracting using SAP and acquisition of commercial items.

6.2. 5-Level Upgrade Requirements. For the award of AFSC 6C051, FMs concurred to reduce
the minimum time in up-grade training for non-prior service from 15 months to 12 months.
Additionally, a capstone training requirement to “demonstrate Contracting Officer capabilities
executing a home station warrant, not to exceed the Simplified Acquisition Threshold (SAT)” was
added. This requirement is designed to ensure Airmen are not warranted in a deployed environment
prior to having successfully demonstrated the knowledge, critical thinking and decision making
skills commensurate with such a responsibility.

6.2.1. 5-level CDC Changes. FMs concurred to add Strategic Sourcing training to the CDCs.
They also concurred to streamline the CDC process by combining the 6C051A and 6C051B CDC
sets into one set of four volumes to reduce administration and time delays. FMs are aware this could
reduce overall test score averages due to the added material the trainee is to master for one test;
however, the risk of test failure remains low. FMs continue to agree trainees should only be given
one month per volume. Supervisors may approve additional time as required to accommodate
unexpected delays in training with the goal of not exceeding a twelve month enrollment.

6.3. 7-Level CDC Requirement. FMs concurred to establish a new 7-level CDC requirement to
educate Squadron Superintendent Role and Responsibilities, Squadron Level Management
programs, and advanced contracting technical skills to include Strategic Sourcing. Trainees enrolled
in 7-level UGT are exempt from this requirement while the CDC undergoes development. Effective
date of this training standard will be identified by the CFM at a date to be determined and is
dependent upon release of the new CDC.

6.4. APDP Level III Contracting Certification Eligibility Change. FMs concurred Master
Sergeants must hold a CCAF degree in addition to the previous requirement of having completed the
SNCOA correspondence course to attend Level III courses and obtain a level III certification.

7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Academic Programs.

7.1. Enrollment. Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon completion of basic military training. CCAF
provides the opportunity for all enlisted members to obtain an Associate in Applied Science degree.
The degree must be completed before the student separates from the Air Force, retires, or

                                                19
commissions as an officer. For program details regarding the Associate of Applied Science degree,
refer to the CCAF catalog at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf.

7.2. Degree Requirements: Airmen must hold the 5-skill level to graduate from any program.
Subject area requirements are shown below. The Contract Management program applies to the
6C0X1 career field.


        Subject                                                  Semester hours
        Technical Education                                      24
        Leadership, Management, and Military Studies             6
        Physical Education                                       4
        General Education                                        15
        Program Electives                                        15
        Total                                                    64

7.2.1. Technical Education. A minimum of twelve (12) semester hours of Technical Core
subjects/courses must be applied. The remaining twelve (12) semester hours will consist of
Technical Core or Technical Elective requirements.

7.2.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies. These include Professional Military
Education (PME) and civilian management courses. Refer to the CCAF General Catalog for
transferability of civilian management courses.

7.2.3. Physical Education.     This requirement is satisfied upon completion of basic military
training.

7.2.4. General Education. Courses must meet the Criteria for Application of Courses to the
General Education Requirement and be in agreement with the definitions of Applicable General
Education subjects/courses as outlined in the CCAF General Catalog. Five categories of courses
must be completed in order to fulfill this requirement. The categories are: speech, English
composition, math, social science, and humanities.

7.2.5. Program Electives. These are satisfied with applicable Technical Education, Leadership,
Management, and Military Studies, or General Education subjects/courses.

7.3. Personal Choice. Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is encouraged for
all. Individuals desiring to become an Air Education and Training Command instructor should
actively pursue an associate degree. A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain CCAF accreditation
through the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.

8. Acquisition Professional Development Program (APDP)/DOD Career Development
Program. With implementation of the Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act
(P.L. 101-510), the Department of Defense established a Career Development Program for
acquisition personnel. The Air Force implementing program is the Acquisition Professional
Development Program (APDP).


                                                20
8.1. APDP Application. APDP applies to officer, enlisted, and civilian personnel occupying
acquisition-coded contracting positions. It provides guidance relating to certification requirements
applicable to the 6C0X1 career specialty.

8.2. Certification Requirements. The contracting career path includes three progressive levels of
certification. Each level identifies the completion of specific training, education and experience
requirements. Acquisition personnel may not be assigned to an acquisition position unless they have
been awarded a certification at the level which the position requires, or can obtain the required
certification within twenty-four (24) months of being assigned to the position.

8.3. Certification/Skill Level/Grade Association. Air Force contracting has determined that
positions on unit manning documents should be coded to require levels of certification
commensurate with the required grade of the position. APDP certification is designed to be a
balanced and progressive program of training, experience, and education. It is not intended for quick
attainment without having practical on-the-job experiences to accompany the certification..
Personnel will only receive priority and approval to complete APDP certification based on their
assigned, or projected, duty position. SAF/AQC (AFCFM) has final approval authority for enlisted
members to attend any Level III training course. See the table below for established position
certification levels by grade:



          GRADE                            POSITION                            SEI
                                 CERTIFICATION LEVEL
Airman Basic                     None                             NA
Airman                           None                             NA
Airman First Class               Level I                          129
Senior Airman                    Level I                          129
Staff Sergeant                   Level I/II                       129/130
Technical Sergeant               Level II                         130
Master Sergeant*                 Level II/III*                    130/131
Senior/Chief Master Sergeant     Level III                        131

NOTE: * Denotes that Master Sergeants occupying a superintendent position within an organization,
who have completed the SNCOA correspondence course and hold a CCAF degree are permitted to
attend and obtain level III certification. Master Sergeants who do not occupy squadron-level
superintendent positions, who have completed the SNCOA correspondence course and hold a CCAF
degree may attend level III training (as priority II), but may not be certified until they occupy a
squadron-level superintendent position.

8.4. Satisfying APDP Educational Requirements. A minimum of 24 semester hours in business-
related disciplines of study from an accredited institution of higher education is required. Some
examples of business related disciplines are: organization and management, accounting, business
finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, and quantitative
methods. Contracting enlisted personnel are strongly encouraged to use CCAF course work to
receive business-hour credits to satisfy APDP requirements. Defense Acquisition University (DAU)
contracting courses also result in business-hour credits through the CCAF.

                                                 21
8.4.1. Civilian Courses. Attending civilian courses through the Tuition Assistance Program is
highly encouraged.

8.4.2. Continuous Learning (CL). Every acquisition workforce member has a goal to earn 40 CL
points each year and is required to earn 80 CL points every two years through a variety of events,
including DAU, MAJCOM, and local training, conferences, rotational assignment and other
professional events. For details regarding Continuous Learning, reference the Acquisition
Career/APDP Continuous Learning website at:
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/browse.do?programId=t6925EC2E48B80FB5E044080020E329A9&channelPageId=s6
925EC1348B50FB5E044080020E329A9


8.4.3. Other Programs. Members may also acquire semester-hour credits through the College-
Level Examination Program (CLEP) and the Defense Activity for Non-traditional Education Support
(DANTES). Both programs offer opportunities to test business knowledge. Successful test scores
can result in the award of three (3) to six (6) semester hours per test. Local education offices can
provide more information.

9. Special Experience Identifiers (SEIs).

9.1. Purpose. SEIs identify special experience and training not otherwise identified within the
personnel data system (PDS). They are used when identifying experience or training is critical to the
job and person assignment match and no other identification is appropriate or available. SEIs are tied
to the assignment process and better distribute personnel to optimize the job and person match.

9.2. Three Contracting SEIs. SEIs reflect training and experience accomplishments and
certification levels for the APDP. For grade requirements and their corresponding SEI requirement,
see the table at paragraph 8.3.

9.2.1. 129. Code 129 represents APDP Contracting Level I certification. Enlisted positions in the
contracting career field associated with duties above the simplified acquisition threshold are coded
either 129 or 130.

9.2.2. 130. Code 130 represents APDP Contracting Level II certification. Enlisted positions in the
contracting career field associated with duties above the simplified acquisition threshold are coded
either 129 or 130.

9.2.3. 131. Code 131 represents APDP Contracting Level III certification.

9.3. Responsibilities. Because SEIs determine assignment of positions and locations, personnel
must work toward acquiring them.

9.3.1. Supervisors. Supervisors should thoroughly discuss the contracting SEI process and its
impact on individual performance during feedback sessions and encourage Airmen to work toward
acquiring the appropriate SEI codes.


                                                  22
9.3.2. Individuals. Individuals are responsible for ensuring the appropriate SEI Code is entered into
their records. They do so either at their CSS or local Military Personnel Flight (MPF).

10. Career Field Path. The following documents describe the contracting career path and
summarize significant education and training guidance.

10.1. Figure 1, “Contracting Career Field: Enlisted Career Path Pyramid,” is a graphic view
of the path followed by a typical contracting Airman.

10.2. Figure 1.1, “Career Path Milestones,” supports the “Career Path Pyramid,” (Figure 1) and
summarizes upgrade requirements, identifies milestones to be met, and provides the average sew-on
time for promotions from SrA through CMSgt.

10.3. Figure 1.2, “Wear of Occupational Badges,” summarizes guidance provided in AFI 36-
2923, “Aeronautical, Duty & Occupational Badges.”

10.4. Figure 2, “Training Timeline - Non Prior Service,” is a chronological composite of
technical, professional and military training goals for Non-Prior Service Airmen.

10.5. Figure 3, “Training Timeline - Prior Service (Retrainee),” is a chronological composite of
technical, professional and military training goals for Prior Service (Retrainee) Airmen.




                                                 23
    Contracting Enlisted
    Career Path Pyramid


                                                                * This depicts the path of the
                        CEM - SQ/                          typical contracting Airman and is
                       MAJCOM Supt                            not intended to be restrictive in
                          CMSgt                                                     any form.
                       APDP Level III

                 SUPERINTENDENT                                ** Upgrade requirements are
                                                                  summarized in Figure 1.2.
                        MSgt, SMSgt
                       7 / 9 Skill Level

                     APDP Contracting                              *** Wear of occupational
                        Level III                                      badge is described in
                                                                                 Figure 1.3.



        CONTRACTING CRAFTSMAN
                     SSgt, TSgt, MSgt
                       7 Skill Level

                APDP Contracting Level II

       CONTRACTING JOURNEYMAN
                     A1C, SrA, SSgt
                      5 Skill Level

                APDP Contracting Level I


      CONTRACTING APPRENTICE
                   AB, Amn, A1C
                    3 Skill Level

    CONTRACTING INPUT or HELPER
                      AB, Amn, A1C
                       1 Skill Level
Scheduled for or attending Contracting Apprentice Course


                       Figure 1
                              24
                                               Contracting Enlisted
                                                Career Path Chart
                                                                                                                                          Strategic
6C0XX Airmen                                                                                                    Operational
ASVAB Standard
                                                                       Tactical
General Score: 72




 BASIC            APPRENTICE                         JOURNEYMAN                                             CRAFTSMAN                               SUPERINTENDENT / CEM

Entry      AF Technical Training       First Duty Assignment                        Possible PCS / Reenlist / Promotions                    Leadership & Oversight Roles

AF BMT     MRA Course, Lackland AFB    Normally Contracting Squadron                Start Core and Duty 7-skill level Tasks                 PME: SNCO Academy

8 Weeks    40 Academic Days            Start On-The-Job Training                    Start APDP Level II Course Work                         Achieve 9-skill level – E8

           Graduate w/3-skill level    Start Career Development Course              Complete 7-skill level Tasks                            Achieve CEM status – E9

                                       Complete Core and Duty 5-Level Tasks         Achieve 7-skill level                                   *CEM: Chief Enlisted Manager

MRA Course plus 5-skill                Complete Career Development Course           Earn APDP Level II Contracting                                         200-level courses taken
 level CDC equates to                                                                                                                                     through DAU. No special
                                       Earn APDP Level I Contracting                PME: NCO Academy/SNCO correspondence course
CON 090, 100, 110, 111,                                                                                                                                   equivalents for Air Force
     112 and 120                       12-18 Month Program
   (DAU sanctioned)                                                                                Warranted Contracting Officers / Joint Assignments
                                       Achieve 5-skill level

                                       PME: Airman Leadership School                                                                          APDP Level III Certification
                                                                                                APDP Level II Certification
          First Term Airmen must reenlist to advance to APDP Level II
                                                                                                                                       Superintendent / First Sergeant /
Approx Sew-On Times                                                                                                                     Flight Chief / Contingency FAM /
E4 - 36 Months                                Buyer / Kt Admin / Unit Deployment Mgr / Unit Training Mgr                               Functional Mgr / Career Field Mgr
E5 - 4 Years                                                                 Team Lead / NCOIC / Academic Instructor
E6 - 11 Years
                                                                 Unit-Level Contingency Contracting Training Program – Recurring Training
E7 - 16 Years
E8 - 19 Years                         Community College of the Air Force Program                                          Air Force 100% Tuition Assistance
E9 - 24 Years                         Associates Degree – Contracts Management                                          Bachelor/Master Programs Encouraged

          Initial Skills Development                                     Deployment Ready – Years 2 through 30 – AF and Joint Taskings
 Basic Badge: Awarded                                          Senior Badge: Awarded                                          Master Badge: Awarded
 upon completion of MRA                                        upon upgrade to 7-skill                                        to MSgt & above with 5
 Course.                                                       level.                                                         years as 7-skill level.




                                                                                   Figure 1.1




                                                                                           25
                            CAREER PATH MILESTONES
UPGRADE TO INPUT OR HELPER (6C011)
 Attending, or scheduled to attend the Contracting Apprentice Course
UPGRADE TO 3 Skill Level
 Complete Contracting Apprentice Course
UPGRADE TO 5 Skill Level
  Complete mandatory Career Development Courses (CDCs) within 12 months
   (maximum possible extension of 2 months per course)
  Minimum 12 months upgrade training (9 months if retrainee possessed 5 skill level in prior AFSC)
  Complete all core and duty position task qualification training
  Demonstrate Contracting Officer capabilities executing a home station warrant, not to exceed the SAT
  Meet mandatory requirements for 6C0X1 specialty description in ENLISTED CLASSIFICATION
   DIRECTORY and this CFETP
  Recommended by supervisor
  Approved by commander
AIRMAN LEADERSHIP SCHOOL (ALS)
  Must be SrA with 48 months time in service or a SSgt-select
  Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt sew-on (active duty only)
UPGRADE TO 7 Skill Level
  Minimum rank of SSgt
  APDP Level I Certification and completion of Contingency Contracting Course (CON 234)
  Minimum 12 months upgrade training (minimum of six months if previously a 7-level in other AFS)
  Complete all core and duty position task qualification training
  Meet mandatory requirements listed in specialty description in ENLISTED CLASSIFICATION
   DIRECTORY and this CFETP
  Recommended by supervisor
  Approved by commander
NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICER ACADEMY (NCOA)
  Must be a TSgt or TSgt-select
  Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt sew-on (active duty only)
USAF SENIOR NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICER ACADEMY (SNCOA)
  Must be a SMSgt-select or MSgt
  SNCOA correspondence course is available for TSgts with 2 yrs time in grade and above
  Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SMSgt sew-on (active duty only)
UPGRADE TO 9 Skill Level
   Minimum rank of SMSgt
   Must have completed required PME
   Recommended by supervisor
   Approved by commander
                              CONTRACTING SEW-ON TIME
                                                                                    HIGH YEAR
        RANK                   EARLIEST                   AVERAGE
                                                                                    OF TENURE
        SrA                     28 Months                 36 Months                   10 Years
        SSgt                    3.0 Years                 4 Years                     20 Years
        TSgt                    5.0 Years                 11 Years                    22 Years
        MSgt                    8.0 Years                 16 Years                    24 Years
        SMSgt                   11 Years                  19 Years                    26 Years
        CMSgt                   14 Years                  24 Years                    30 Years

                                             Figure 1.2
                                                  26
                            WEAR OF OCCUPATIONAL BADGES

                          Acquisition and Financial Management Badge
                                       (IAW AFI 36-2903)


    BADGE                         Authorized Wear (enlisted personnel)

 Basic            Upon completion of contracting apprentice course

 Senior           Upon award of 7-skill level

 Master           MSgts and above with 5 years or more as a 7-skill level.


Notes:

1. If more than one badge is worn, wear the badge for the current job in the top position.

2. For Retrainees, time credit toward new badges starts upon entry into the new AFSC.

3. Exception: Senior Master Sergeants direct duty retrained into contracting may wear the basic
badge upon reporting to their first contracting duty station. All subsequent badge levels will be
achieved in accordance with the chart above.

4. Exception: An officer who formerly served as enlisted member may continue to wear the
occupational badge for the career field they were in as an enlisted member.

5 Exception: Chief Master Sergeants cross flowed into a new CEM Code wear the basic badge of
their new career field upon award of the CEM Code, the senior badge after 12 months, and the
master badge after 5 years.


                                             Figure 1.3




                                                  27
                                              TRAINING TIMELINE
                                             (NON-PRIOR SERVICE)

Months are as of the trainee's date arrived on station. Unless stated as a maximum date, all times are
approximate. Trainee’s supervisors will make adjustments to accommodate the mission.


                 Month   1       2       3      4        5         6        7     8   9      10      11     12
Technical Training                                                5-skill level CDC
On-the-Job Training                                   5-skill level up-grade training
                                       (must complete OJT core tasks before upgrade to 5-skill level)
APDP Certification                                  Start APDP Certification Requirements*

Continuous Learning                                                     ***


                 Month   13      14      15     16      17         18     19    20    21     22      23     24
Technical Training                             max
                                               CDC

On-the-Job Training                                                                                         max
                                                                                                           UGT
                                  Upgrade to 5-skill level
                                                                                                            5-lvl
APDP Certification           APDP Level I* (desired timeframe)                                             max.
                                                                                                           APDP
                                                                                                          Level I*
Continuous Learning                                                     ***


                 Month               25-36                          37-48                         49-60
Technical Training
On-the-Job Training
APDP Certification                                        APDP Level II Courses **

Continuous Learning                                                     ***


* APDP certification in Contracting requires 24 semester hours of business education from an
accredited source. This requirement is explained in this CFETP at paragraph 8.4.

** During this time frame, CON 234 attendance is highly desired prior to deployment with a CO
warrant. Completion of Contracting Career Development Course is mandatory prior to attendance of
any APDP Level II courses.

*** Reference this CFEPT at paragraph 8.4.2. for CLP guidelines.

Note: Initiate 7-level training upon selection to SSgt. See the Career Path Milestone chart for
timelines.

                                                       Figure 2


                                                             28
                                         TRAINING TIMELINE
                                    (PRIOR SERVICE OR RETRAINEE)

Months are as of the trainee's date arrived on station. Unless stated as a maximum date, all times are
approximate. Trainee’s supervisors will make adjustments to accommodate the mission.

                 Month    1         2           3     4        5         6       7     8          9       10         11    12
Technical Training                                                   5-skill level CDC
On-the-Job Training      5-skill level up-grade training (must complete OJT core tasks
                          before upgrade to 5-skill level. Minimum time in upgrade     Upgrade to 5-skill
                                               training is 9 months.)                       level
APDP Certification                       Start APDP Requirements*/Complete APDP Level 1*
Continuous Learning                                                            ***


                 Month   13        14       15       16        17         18         19    20    21       22         23   24
Technical Training                                  max
                                                    CDC
On-the-Job Training                                       UGT to 7-skill level (5-skill level if not yet upgraded)        max
                                                               (minimum of 6 mos. if 7-level previously held)             UGT
                         Upgrade to 5-skill
                                                                                                                          5-lvl
                              level
APDP Certification                                                       APDP Level II**

Continuous Learning                                                            ***


                 Month                  25-36                                37-48                          49-60
Technical Training
On-the-Job Training       Upgrade to 7-skill level
                           (must have completed core
                         tasks and qualification training)

APDP Certification
Continuous Learning                                                            ***


*As a minimum, APDP certification in Contracting requires 24 hours of business education from an
accredited source. This requirement is explained in this CFETP at paragraph 8.4.

**During this time frame, CON 234 attendance is desired. Note: It is required for upgrade training
to the 7-skill level. Completion of Contracting Career Development Course is mandatory prior to
attendance of any APDP Level II courses.

*** Reference this CFEPT at paragraph 8.4.2. for CLP guidelines.


                                                             Figure 3




                                                                    29
SECTION C - SKILL LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

11.     Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of tasks
and knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each
skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award, and
retention of each skill level as defined in ENLISTED CLASSIFICATION DIRECTORY,
Attachment 36. Specific task and knowledge training requirements are identified in the Specialty
Training Standard (STS) at Part 2, Sections A and B of this CFETP.

12.    Specialty Qualification.

12.1. Input or Helper, 1-skill level (AFSC 6C011) Training Requirements.

12.1.1. Specialty Qualification Requirements. For a summary of the following requirements, refer
to Figure 1.1 of this CFETP.

12.1.1.1. Knowledge. This specialty requires general knowledge of pricing techniques, market
trends, supply sources, US or foreign commercial practices, and marketing factors contributing to
prices of items, equipment, materials, or services. This specialty also requires knowledge of basic
office computer applications, audit procedures, policies, laws, and directives governing purchasing,
and contingency contracting policies and procedures.

12.1.1.2. Education. Although there are no specific education requirements for this specialty, the
helper will eventually be required to obtain 24 semester hours in business from an accredited
institution.

12.1.1.3. Training. Attend the Mission Ready Contracting Apprentice Course.

12.1.1.4. Experience. There are no mandatory experience requirements for the Helper (6C011)
level.

12.1.1.5. Other. For entry into this specialty, the following are mandatory.

12.1.1.5.1. Aptitude. Airmen must achieve a score of 72 in the general area derived from the
Armed Forces Vocational Aptitude Battery or Armed Forces Classification Test.

12.1.1.5.2. Communication Abilities. For entry into this specialty, Airmen must have the ability to
communicate effectively both orally and in writing.

12.1.1.5.3. Character. For award and retention of any contracting AFSC, Airmen must never have
been convicted of a felony, been convicted by courts-martial, or never have received non-judicial
punishment for dereliction in the performance of duties involving contracting activities, larceny,
misappropriation of government funds or property, or financial irresponsibility.

12.1.2. Training Sources. The initial skills (Contracting Apprentice) course at Lackland AFB, TX
satisfies the knowledge and training requirements specified in the specialty qualification section
above.



                                                 30
12.1.3. Implementation. For pipeline Airmen completing BMT, entry into training occurs when
assigned to the contracting career field.

12.2. Apprentice, 3-skill level (AFSC 6C031) Training Requirements.

12.2.1. Specialty Qualifications Requirements. For a summary of the following requirements,
refer to Figure 1.1 of this CFETP.

12.2.1.1. Knowledge. This specialty requires knowledge of pricing techniques, market trends,
supply sources, US or foreign commercial practices, and marketing factors contributing to prices of
items, equipment, materials, or services. This specialty also requires knowledge of basic office
computer applications, audit procedures, policies, laws, and directives governing purchasing, and
contingency contracting policies and procedures.

12.2.1.2. Education. Although there are no specific education requirements for this specialty, the
helper will eventually be required to obtain 24 semester hours in business from an accredited
institution.

12.2.1.3. Training. Successful completion of the Contracting Apprentice course is required for
award of the 3-skill level (6C031).

12.2.1.4. Experience. There are no mandatory experience requirements for the Apprentice (6C031)
level.

12.2.1.5. Other. For entry, award, and retention of the Contracting AFSC 6C0X1, the following are
mandatory.

12.2.1.5.1 Aptitude. Airmen must achieve a score of 72 in the general area derived from the
Armed Forces Vocational Aptitude Battery or Armed Forces Classification Test.

12.2.1.5.2. Communication Abilities. Airmen must have the ability to communicate effectively
both orally and in writing for award of this specialty.

12.2.1.5.3. Character. For award and retention of any contracting AFSC, Airmen must never have
been convicted of a felony, been convicted by courts-martial, or never have received non-judicial
punishment for dereliction in the performance of duties involving contracting activities, larceny,
misappropriation of government funds or property, or financial irresponsibility.

12.2.2. Training Sources. Contracting Apprentice training course at Lackland AFB, TX. The STS at
Part 2, Sections A and B of this CFETP identify all the knowledge and tasks, with their respective
standards.

12.2.3. Implementation.

12.2.3.1. Entry. For pipeline Airmen completing basic training, entry into training occurs when
assigned to the contracting career field. For cross-training personnel, entry into training occurs after
approval to retrain into contracting. (To be approved, retrainees undergo an established interview
process conducted by their local contracting squadron superintendent. MAJCOM superintendents
make approval recommendations and AFPC approves the reassignment.)
                                                  31
12.2.3.2. First Duty Assignment. Upon graduation from the Contracting Apprentice course,
graduates are assigned to their first contracting duty position. Apprentices receive training on local
3-skill level duty position tasks and begin 5-skill level qualification training on core tasks,
reinforcing the training accomplished at the Mission Ready Airmen Course.

12.2.3.3. CDC Enrollment. Supervisors/UTM will enroll the apprentice in the 6C051, Contracting
Journeyman career development course (CDC).

12.2.3.4. Job Rotation. Expose Airmen to a variety of contracting actions by rotating their
assigned positions within the contracting office.

12.3. Journeyman, 5-skill level (AFSC 6C051) Training Requirements.

12.3.1. Specialty Qualification Requirements. For a summary of the following requirements, refer
to Figure 1.1 of this CFETP.

12.3.1.1. Knowledge. This specialty requires knowledge of pricing techniques, market trends,
supply sources, US or foreign commercial practices, and marketing factors contributing to prices of
items, equipment, materials, or services. This specialty also requires knowledge of basic office
computer applications, audit procedures, policies, laws, and directives governing purchasing, and
contingency contracting policies and procedures.

12.3.1.2. Education. APDP certification in Contracting requires 24 semester hours of business
education from an accredited source.

12.3.1.3. Training. Refer to Section B, paragraph 5.4 of this CFETP for training requirements.

12.3.1.4. Experience. Airmen must possess AFSC 6C031 and have work experience assisting and
performing duties involving SAP, negotiations, and other approved methods of acquisition.

12.3.1.5. Contingency Contracting Officer (CCO). Airmen must have the ability to perform
Contingency Contracting Officer duties.

12.3.1.6. Other. For retention of the Contracting AFSC 6C0X1, the following are mandatory.

12.3.1.6.1. Communication Abilities. Airmen must have the ability to communicate effectively
both orally and in writing for award of this specialty.

12.3.1.6.2 Character. For award and retention of any contracting AFSC, Airmen must never have
been convicted of a felony, been convicted by courts-martial, or never have received non-judicial
punishment for dereliction in the performance of duties involving contracting activities, larceny,
misappropriation of government funds or property, or financial irresponsibility.

12.3.2. Training Sources. The following are training sources available to fulfill upgrade
requirements for award of Journeymen.


                                                 32
12.3.2.1. Core Tasks. The STS at Part 2, Sections A and B of this CFETP, identifies core tasks as
minimum qualification requirements within this AFSC, regardless of duty position. The supervisor
documents the STS to indicate tasks required in the Airman’s duty position.
12.3.2.2. CDC Enrollment. The Base Training Manager or units with MILPDS capabilities request
enrollment in the 5-level CDC. Completion of the 5-level CDC is required prior to up-grade.
12.3.2.3. Airman Leadership School (ALS). For active duty members to assume the grade of
SSgt, individuals must graduate from ALS. ANG and Reserve members may complete
PME/promotion requirements by correspondence, residence, or any other approved method.
12.3.2.4. APDP Certification. Journeyman should be actively working toward their APDP
certification to Level I, Contracting.
12.3.3. Implementation. Upon completion of 3-skill level, supervisors will meet with the Airman
to review 5-skill level upgrade requirements, document the individual’s STS, and determine actions
needed to implement effective and efficient use of all training sources. In addition, to the maximum
extent practical, expose the Airman to a variety of contracting actions by rotating job positions
within the contracting office.
12.4. Craftsman, 7-skill level (AFSC 6C071) Training Requirements.
12.4.1. Specialty Qualifications. For a summary of the following requirements, refer to Figure 1.1
of this CFETP.
12.4.1.1. Knowledge. This specialty requires extensive knowledge of pricing techniques, market
trends, supply sources, US or foreign commercial practices, and marketing factors contributing to
prices of items, equipment, materials, or services. This specialty also requires knowledge of basic
office computer applications, audit procedures, policies, laws, and directives governing purchasing,
and contingency contracting policies and procedures.
12.4.1.2. Education. For award of the Craftsman 7-skill level, Airmen must have completed at least
24 semester hours in business-related coursework from an accredited institution.
12.4.1.3. Training. For award of the 7-skill level (6C071), the following training is mandatory:
achievement of Level I, Contracting, certification under the Acquisition Professional Development
Program, and completion of Defense Acquisition University (DAU) contingency contracting course
(CON 234).

12.4.1.4. Experience. All of the following experience requirements are mandatory.
12.4.1.4.1. 5-skill Level. Airmen must possess AFSC 6C051.
12.4.1.4.2. Work Experience.          Work experience in contracting for commodities, services,
construction and contract administration is mandatory.
12.4.1.4.3. Contingency Contracting Officer (CCO). Airmen must have the ability to perform
Contingency Contracting Officer duties.
12.4.1.5. Other. For retention of the Contracting AFSC 6C0X1, the following are mandatory.


                                                33
12.4.1.5.1. Communication Abilities. Airmen must have the ability to communicate effectively
both orally and in writing for award of this specialty.
12.4.1.5.2. Character. For award and retention of any contracting AFSC, Airmen must never have
been convicted of a felony, been convicted by courts-martial, or never have received non-judicial
punishment for dereliction in the performance of duties involving contracting activities, larceny,
misappropriation of government funds or property, or financial irresponsibility.
12.4.2. Training Sources. The following are training sources available to fulfill upgrade
requirements for award of Craftsman skill level.
12.4.2.1. Core Tasks. The STS, shown in Part 2, Sections A and B of this CFETP, identifies core
tasks required for qualification for upgrade to the 7-skill level.
12.4.2.2. Duty Tasks. The supervisor documents the Airman’s STS to indicate tasks required in
their assigned duty position.
12.4.2.3. Contingency Contracting. Because the ability to perform CCO duties is an experience
requirement for award of the Craftsman specialty, it is mandatory that the Airman either performs
contingency contracting under actual conditions and/or otherwise obtains contingency experience.
12.4.2.4. Education. DOD/DAU courses as well as CCAF and other accredited college courses in
support of APDP Contracting Level I and II certification and DAU’s Contingency Contracting
course (CON 234) are required training sources.
12.4.2.5. NCOA. For active duty members to assume the grade of MSgt, individuals must graduate
from the NCO Academy. ANG and Reserve members may complete PME/promotion requirements
by correspondence, residence, or any other approved method.
12.4.3. Implementation. Upon completion of 5-skill level, supervisors will meet with the Airman
to review the 7-skill level upgrade requirements, document the individual’s STS, and determine
actions to implement effective and efficient use of all training sources available. Exposure to
contingency contracting actions is mandatory. In addition, to provide the Airman with a variety of
contracting actions and coordinate training with duty responsibilities, rotate the individual to
differing duty positions within the contracting office.

12.5. Superintendent, 9-skill level (AFSC 6C091) Training Requirements.

12.5.1. Specialty Qualifications. For a summary of the following requirements, refer to Figure 1.1
of this CFETP.

12.5.1.1. Knowledge. This specialty requires complete knowledge of pricing techniques, market
trends, supply sources, US or foreign commercial practices, and marketing factors contributing to
prices of items, equipment, materials, or services. This specialty also requires knowledge of basic
office computer applications, audit procedures, policies, laws, and directives governing purchasing,
and contingency contracting policies and procedures.

12.5.1.2. Education. Superintendents will have already completed 24 semester hours of business
coursework for APDP certification. Although no other required education is necessary, individuals
in this skill level should pursue, or have completed CCAF degree requirements.
                                                34
12.5.1.3. SNCOA. For active duty members to assume the grade of SMSgt, individuals must
graduate from the SNCO Academy. ANG and Reserve members may complete PME/promotion
requirements by correspondence, residence, or any other approved method.

12.5.1.4. Training. There are no mandatory training requirements for the Superintendent skill
level.

12.5.1.5. Experience. For award of the 9-skill level, the following experience requirements must be
met.

12.5.1.5.1. 6C071. Possession of AFSC 6C071 is mandatory.

12.5.1.5.2. SMSgt. Be promoted to the grade of SMSgt.

12.5.1.6. Contingency Contracting Officer (CCO). Airmen must have the ability to perform
Contingency Contracting Officer duties.

12.5.1.7. Other. For retention of the Contracting AFSC 6C0X1, the following are mandatory.

12.5.1.7.1. Communication Abilities. Airmen must have the ability to communicate effectively
both orally and in writing for award of this specialty.
12.5.1.7.2. Character. For award and retention of any contracting AFSC, Airmen must never have
been convicted of a felony, been convicted by courts-martial, or never have received non-judicial
punishment for dereliction in the performance of duties involving contracting activities, larceny,
misappropriation of government funds or property, or financial irresponsibility. Airmen must have
the ability to speak distinctly.

12.5.1.7.3. APDP. Superintendents sitting on duty positions requiring an APDP Level III
certification in Contracting must possess it or be actively working to obtain it.

12.5.2. Training Sources. DOD/DAU courses as well as CCAF and other accredited college
courses in support of APDP Level III certification in Contracting are training sources.

12.5.3. Implementation. Upon completion of 7-skill level, supervisors will meet with the
Craftsman to review 9-skill level upgrade requirements and determine actions to implement effective
and efficient use of all training sources available to meet mandatory specialty qualification
requirements while fulfilling mission needs.

12.6. Chief Enlisted Manager, (AFSC 6C000) Training Requirements.

12.6.1. Specialty Qualifications. For a summary of the following requirements, refer to Figure 1.1
of this CFETP.

12.6.1.1. Knowledge. This specialty requires complete knowledge of pricing techniques, market
trends, supply sources, US or foreign commercial practices, and marketing factors contributing to
prices of items, equipment, materials, or services. This specialty also requires knowledge of basic
                                                35
office computer applications, audit procedures, policies, laws, and directives governing purchasing,
and contingency contracting policies and procedures.

12.6.1.2. Education. CEMs will have already completed required education to obtain this skill
level; however, pursuit of continuous learning and professional certifications is required.

12.6.1.3. Training. There are no mandatory training requirements for award of the CEM skill level.

12.6.1.4. Experience. For award of 6C000 AFSC, the following experience requirements must be
met.

12.6.1.4.1. 6C091. Possession of AFSC 6C091 is mandatory.

12.6.1.4.2. CMSgt. Be promoted to the grade of CMSgt.

12.6.1.5. Contingency Contracting Officer (CCO). Airmen must have the ability to perform
Contingency Contracting Officer duties.

12.6.1.6. Other. For retention of the Contracting AFSC 6C0X1, the following are mandatory.

12.6.1.6.1. Communication Abilities. Airmen must have the ability to communicate effectively
both orally and in writing for award of this specialty.
12.6.1.6.2. Character. For award and retention of any contracting AFSC, Airmen must never have
been convicted of a felony, been convicted by courts-martial, or never have received non-judicial
punishment for dereliction in the performance of duties involving contracting activities, larceny,
misappropriation of government funds or property, or financial irresponsibility. Airmen must have
the ability to speak distinctly.

12.6.1.6.3 APDP. CEMs sitting on duty positions requiring an APDP Level III certification in
Contracting must possess it or be actively working to obtain it.

12.6.2. Training Sources. DOD/DAU courses as well as CCAF and other accredited college
courses in support of APDP Level III certification in Contracting are training sources. In addition,
attendance at the Chief Leadership Course (CLC) is required.

12.6.3. Implementation. Upon completion of 9-skill level, supervisors will meet with the
Superintendent to review CEM skill level upgrade requirements and determine actions to implement
effective and efficient use of all training sources available to meet mandatory specialty qualification
requirements while fulfilling mission needs.




                                                  36
SECTION D - RESOURCE/TRAINING CONSTRAINTS

13.   Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints that preclude attainment of
      optimal training objectives.

13.1. Training Constraints. There are no known constraints at this time

13.2. Manpower. No new manpower authorizations are required.

13.3. Equipment. None.

13.4. Software: None.

13.5. Building Modification: None

SECTION E - TRANSITION TRAINING GUIDE

NOTE: There are currently no transition training requirements. This area is reserved.




                                                37
PART II

SECTION A - SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD, APPRENTICE/JOURNEYMAN/
CRAFTSMAN/SUPERINTENDENT (6C0X1)/CEM (6C000)

1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by Air Education and
Training Command. The schoolhouse will implement this training effective with class 120816.

2. Purpose of the Specialty Training Standard (STS). As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, Developing,
Managing, and Conducting Training, this STS:

2.1. Lists in column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common tasks,
knowledge, and technical references (TRs) necessary for Airmen to perform duties at the 3-, 5-, and
7-skill levels. These are based on an analysis of the Occupational Survey Report, dated September
2009. The task breakdown is based on an analysis of the duties during the July 2010 Specialty
Training Requirements Team conducted at Lackland AFB, TX, and enlisted functional manager
inputs.

2.2. Provides certification for OJT. Column 4 is used to record completion of tasks and knowledge
training requirements.

2.3. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 3 of attachment 2
shows the proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training in the 3-
skill level course as described in the Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA)
system (previously AFCAT 36-2223) available at https://www.my.af.mil/etcacourses. When two
codes are used in column 3, the first code is the established requirement for resident training on the
task/knowledge, and the second code is the level of training currently provided in the course.
Column 3 also indicates the career knowledge provided in the 5-skill level Career Development
Courses (CDC). See AFIADL/AFSC/CDC listings maintained by the unit OJT manager for current
CDC listings.

2.4. Explains Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to
indicate levels of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career development
courses.

2.5. Uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to encompass the entire spectrum of
training requirements for the Contracting career field. The 3 level course and the 5 level CDCs use
the PCK codes identified for each STS item for measurement devices. (i.e. the 3 level student is
measured at the “a” level for STS 1.1 Explain progression in career ladder 6C0X1.)

2.6. Becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job training when placed in AF Form
623, On-the-Job Training Record, and used according to AFI 36-2201. When used as a JQS,
additional requirements apply

2.6.1. Documentation. Document completion of training. The AFCFM has determined that third
party task certification is not required. Identify duty position requirements by circling the
appropriate subparagraph number in Column 1. As a minimum, complete the following columns in
Part 2 of the CFETP: Training Completed, Trainee Initials, and Trainer Initials.

                                                  38
An AFJQS may be used in lieu of Part II of the CFETP only upon approval of the Air Force Career
Field Manager (AFCFM). NOTE: The AFCFM may supplement these minimum documentation
procedures as needed or deemed necessary for their Career Field.

2.6.1.1. CFETP Transcribing Procedures. Use the new CFETP to identify and document all past
and current qualifications. Transcribe qualifications in the following manner:

2.6.1.1.1. For tasks previously certified and required in the current duty position, circle the
subparagraph number next to the task statement and enter the current date in the completion column.
Trainee initials in the trainee column and the current supervisor/trainer initials in the trainer column.
Rationale: Clarifies transcribing documentation procedures.
.
2.6.1.1.2. When transcribing previous certification for tasks not required in the current duty
position, carry forward only the previous completion date of certification (not the initials of another
person). If and when these tasks become duty position requirements, recertify using standard
certification procedures.

2.6.1.1.3. The person whose initials appear in the trainer block during the transcription process must
meet those requirements.

2.6.1.1.4. Upon completion of the transcription process, give the old CFETP to the member.

2.6.1.2. Documenting Career Knowledge. When a CDC is not available, the supervisor identifies
STS training references that the trainee requires for career knowledge and ensures, at a minimum,
that trainees cover the mandatory items in AFI 36-2108. For two-time CDC course exam failures,
supervisors identify all STS items corresponding to the areas covered by the CDC. The trainee
completes a study of STS references, undergoes evaluation by the supervisor, and receives
certification on the STS items. NOTE: Career Knowledge must be documented prior to submitting a
CDC waiver.

2.6.1.3. Decertification and Recertification. When an Airman is found to be unqualified on a task
previously certified for his or her position, the supervisor lines through the previous certification or
deletes previous certification when using an automated system. Appropriate remarks are entered on
the AF Form 623A, On-The-Job Training Record Continuation Sheet, as to the reason for
decertification. The individual is recertified (if required) either by erasing the old entries in writing
or by using correction fluid (if the entries were made in ink) over the previously certified entry.

2.6.2. Training Standard. Tasks in the 3 level course are trained to the partially proficient level,
meaning the individual can perform the task, needing help only with the hardest part. OJT tasks are
trained and qualified to the “go/no go” level. “Go” means the individual can perform the task
without assistance and meets local demands for accuracy, timeliness, and correct use of procedures.




                                                   39
2.7. Promotion Testing. This STS is a guide for development of promotion tests under the
Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS). Senior NCOs use this STS to develop Specialty
Knowledge Tests (SKTs) at the AF Occupational Measurement Squadron. Only subject matter
experts with extensive practical experience in their career fields are used to develop test material.
Questions are based on study references listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are
in Chapter 14 of AFI 36-2605, US Air Force Reenlistment, Retention, and NCO Status Programs
(formerly AFR 35-16, volume 1).

3. Recommendations. Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates to the
contracting training manager at: 344 TRS/TRRP, 1015 Femoyer Drive, Lackland AFB TX 78236,
DSN 473-0670 or, the 37th Training Group Customer Service Line (24 Hours), DSN 473-2917.

SECTION B – COURSE OBJECTIVES LIST
The Contracting Apprentice course objectives list is available via the AF Portal, Lackland AFB
website 344th TRS/ Contracting Training Flight.

SECTION C – SUPPORT MATERIALS
     This area reserved.

SECTION D - TRAINING COURSE INDEX

4. Formal Schools. Refer to the Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA) system
(AFCAT 36-2223) available at https://wwwmil.keesler.af.mil/menu/training for USAF Formal
Schools course descriptions and training information. Also, refer to Defense Acquisition University
(DAU) Catalog for course descriptions and DOD school locations.

5. Requirements.

5.1. Figure 1.1 summarizes the requirements to achieve each skill level in this specialty.

5.1.1. The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology (USD (A&T)) has approved
checklists for the acquisition workforce under the authority of DOD Directive 5000.52, “Defense
Acquisition Education, Training and Career Development Program.”

5.1.2. The checklists provide a concise description of the education, experience, and training
required to meet the standards for certification in acquisition career fields for Contracting Level I,
Contracting Level II, and Contracting Level III.

5.1.3. To view these checklists, see web site: http://www.dau.mil/career/appc.asp.

6. Enlisted Professional Military Education.

6.1. Resident attendance at the Airman Leadership School (ALS), NCO Academy (NCOA), and the
Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA) will be required for active duty career progression.
Correspondence course credit is available to ANG/AFRES personnel.



                                                  40
6.1.1. Airman Leadership School (ALS). Enlisted personnel will attend ALS after 48 months Total
Active Federal Military Service (TAFMS) or upon selection for promotion to the rank of staff
sergeant.

6.1.2. NCO Academy (NCOA). Enlisted personnel (TSgt and TSgt selectees) will attend the NCOA
upon selection for promotion to the rank of technical sergeant for active duty personnel.
ANG/AFRES personnel will attend as a staff sergeant or a technical sergeant.

6.1.3. Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA). Enlisted personnel (SMSgts and MSgts) may attend the
SNCOA. SNCOA correspondence course is available for MSgts. Completion of the SNCOA in-
residence is required prior to CMSgt pin-on. ANG/AFRES personnel will attend as a master sergeant
or a senior master sergeant.

7. Training Program Directives.

AFIND 2             Numerical Index of Standard and Recurring Air Force Publications
AFIND 8             Numerical Index of Specialized Education & Training Publications
                    USAF Formal Schools - Education and Training Course
ETCA
                    Announcements
AFI 36-2101         Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted)
AFI 36-2105         Officer Classification
AFCED               Enlisted Classification Directory
AFI 36-2201         Developing, Managing, and Conducting Training
AFI 36-2301         Professional Military Education
AFI 36-2304         Community College of the Air Force
AFI 36-2502         Airman Promotion System
AFI 36-2605         Air Force Military Personnel Testing System
AFI 36-2923         Aeronautical Duty and Occupational Badges
AFI 38-101          Air Force Organization
AFPAM 36-2241       Professional Development Guide




                                               41
  8. Training Program Points Of Contact.

SAF/AQC - CMSgt Glenn Dumont                      HQ AETC/A7K - CMSgt William Dunmire
DSN 260-2413 Comm: (571) 256-2413                 DSN 487-7070 Comm: (210) 652-7070
Fax: DSN 260-2431                                 Fax: DSN 487-8344
1060 Air Force Pentagon                           2035 First Street West
Washington DC 20330-1060                          Randolph AFB TX 78150-4304
E-mail: glenn.dumont@pentagon.af.mil              E-mail: william.dunmire@randolp.af.mil
USAFE/A7K - CMSgt Anthony Johnson                 PACAF/A7K CMSgt Tommie Rogers
DSN 314-480-9100 Comm: 011-49-6371-47-9100        DSN 315-449-8569 Comm: (808) 449-8569
Fax: DSN 314-480-2025                             Fax: DSN 315-449-8571
Unit 3050, Box 110                                25 E Street, Suite D-306
APO AE 09094-0110                                 Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam HI 96853-5427
E-mail: anthony.johnson@ramstein.af.mil           E-mail: tommie.rogers@hickam.af.mil
ACC/A7KE - CMSgt Morton Gould                     AMC/A7K - CMSgt Donita Curtis
DSN 574-0219 Comm: (757) 764-0219                 DSN779-0190 COMM (618) 229-0190
Fax: DSN 574-4400                                 507 Symington Dr
129 Andrews Street                                Scott AFB IL 62225
Langley AFB VA 23665-2791                         Fax: DSN 576-6668
E-mail: morton.gould@langley.af.mil               Email: donita.curtis@us.af.mil
AFSPC/A7K - CMSgt David Tuck                      AFSOC/A7KM - CMSgt Miriam Riegler
DSN 692-5311 Comm: (719) 554-5311                 DSN 579-5241 Comm: (850) 884-5241
Fax: DSN 692-5299                                 Fax: DSN 579-2476
150 Vandenberg Street, Suite 1105                 427 Cody Avenue, Suite 303
Peterson AFB CO 80914-4350                        Hurlburt Field FL 32544-5273
E-mail: david.tuck@us.af.mil                      E-mail: miriam.riegler@hurlburt.af.mil
AFMC/PK - CMSgt David Smith                       AFRC/LGC (Air Force Reserves)
DSN 787-7421 Comm: (937) 257-7421                 CMSgt Darren Gann, DSN 260-7080
Fax: DSN 787-7054                                 Comm: (571) 256-7080 Fax: DSN 260-2431
4375 Chidlaw Road, Suite 6                        1060 Air Force Pentagon
Wright-Patterson AFB OH 45433-5006                Washington DC 20330-1060
E-mail: david.smith6@wpafb.af.mil                 E-mail: darren.gann@pentagon.af.mil
AFGSC/A7KE-CMSgt Robert Mueller
DSN 781-0177
Comm: (318) 456-0177 Fax: none
41 Orville Wright
Barksdale AFB, LA 71110
E-mail: robert.mueller.1@us.af.mil




                                             42
SECTION E – MAJCOM REQUIREMENTS
This area reserved.


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE



OFFICIAL
                               WENDY M. MASIELLO, Maj Gen, USAF
                               Deputy Assistant Secretary (Contracting)
                               Assistant Secretary (Acquisition)



Attachments
1. Qualitative Requirements
2. STS 6C0X1




                                   43
 This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
 Name of Trainee
 Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)              Initials (Written)


 Printed Name Of Trainer And Their Written Initials
 N/I                                                               N/I

 N/I                                                               N/I

 N/I                                                               N/I

 N/I                                                               N/I

 N/I                                                               N/I


                                        QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                              PROFICIENCY CODE KEY
                           SCALE       DEFINITION: The individual
                           VALUE
      TASK                   1         Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task.
  PERFORMANCE                          (EXTREMELY LIMITED)
     LEVELS
                              2        Can do most parts of the task. Needs help only on hardest parts. (PARTIALLY
                                       PROFICIENT)
                              3        Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (COMPETENT)
                              4        Can do the complete task completely and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the
                                       task. (HIGHLY PROFICIENT)
      *TASK                   a        Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (NOMENCLATURE)
   KNOWLEDGE
     LEVELS                   b        Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (PROCEDURES)
                              c        Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                                       (OPERATING PRINCIPLES)
                              d        Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (ADVANCED THEORY)
    **SUBJECT                 A        Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (FACTS)
   KNOWLEDGE
      LEVELS

                              B        Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject.
                                       (PRINCIPLES)
                              C        Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (ANALYSIS)
                              D        Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (EVALUATION)
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge
for a specific task. (Examples: b and 1b)
** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any
specific task, or for a subject common to several tasks.
EXPLANATIONS
- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the Contracting
Apprentice course or CDC.
NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during wartime. The academic days is
changed to a six-day workweek with ten hour training days.
Core tasks are identified by skill level with a 5 or 7 in column 2. These tasks will be trained to the go/no go level. “Go”
means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets local demands for accuracy, timeliness, and
correct use of procedures

                                                       Attachment 1


                                                              44
                                             2. Core 3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                                                Tasks
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References             A          B       C           D               A                B                    C
                                                                                                   3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level        7 Skill Level
                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer         Course           CDC                  CDC
                                                        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials



1 CAREER PROGRESSION LADDER                                                                              A                B                    -
 TR: AFI 36-2101, Enlisted
 Classification Directory and CFETP
2 CONTRACTING MISSION
 TR: AFPD 38-1, AFI 64-102, and AFFARS
 Appendix CC
2.1 Contracting Organizational Structure                                                                 A                B                    -
2.2 Enlisted Roles in Contracting                                                                        -                -                    -
2.2.1 Contingency Contracting Officer                                                                    A                B                    -
2.2.2 Stateside Contingencies                                                                            -                A                    -
2.3 Contracting Officer/Business Advisor                                                                 A                B                    -
    Responsibilities
2.4 Demonstrate contracting officer authority    5                                                       -                -                    -
    executing a home station warrant, at or
    below the simplified acquisition
    threshold
2.5 Acquisition Teams                                                                                    A                B                    -
2.6 Foreign Acquisition                                                                                  -                B                    -
3 CONTRACT LAW
 TR: FAR 1, 3, and DoDD 5500.7-R
3.1 Basics of Contract Law                                                                               A                A                    -
3.2 Ethical Standards of Conduct                                                                         B                B                    -
3.3 Legal Review                                                                                         -                B                    -
4 OPERATIONS SECURITY (OPSEC)                                                                            A                B                    -
 Vulnerabilities of AFSC 6C0X1
 TR: AFI 31-401 and DoDD 5200.1-R
5 CONTRACT NUMBERING                                                                                     A                B                    -
 TR: DFARS 204.7000
6 RESEARCH PUBLICATIONS
 TR: FAC, DCN, AFAC, Comptroller
 General Decision, FAR, DFARS and
 AFFARS
6.1 Air Force Publications                                                                               a                a                    -
6.2 Federal Acquisition Regulations and                                                                 2b                b                    -
    Supplements
6.3 MAJCOM Policies                                                                                      -                -                    -
6.4 Comptroller General Decisions                                                                        -                a                    -
7 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
 TR: AF PD2 Business Procedures
 (AFPBP), AFI 33-119, AFI 33-129, and
 FAR 4.5
7.1 Automated Contracting System
7.1.1 General Information                                                                               A                 -                    -
7.1.2 Process Contracting Actions                                                                       2c                -                    -
7.1.3 Report Contract Actions                    5                                                      2b                b                    -
7.2 Electronic Commerce
7.2.1 General Information                                                                               A                 B                    -
7.2.2 Utilize Electronic Posting System          5                                                      2c                c                    -
8 CONTRACT TYPES
 TR: FAR 8, 16, 38 DFARS 208, 216 and
 AFFARS 5308, 5316
8.1 Fixed Price Contracts                                                                                A                B                    -
8.2 Indefinite Delivery Contracts                                                                        A                B                    -
8.3 Other Indefinite Contracts (ie JOC, TOC,                                                             -                A                    -
    MAC, MATOC, GWAC)
8.4 Cost Reimbursement Contracts                                                                         A                B                    -
8.5 Letter Contracts                                                                                     -                A                    -
8.6 Select Appropriate Contract Type             5                                                       -                b                    -
                                             2. Core 3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                                                Tasks
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References             A          B       C           D               A                B                    C
                                                                                                   3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level        7 Skill Level
                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer         Course           CDC                  CDC
                                                        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials



9 MANAGEMENT
 TR: 10 USC 1701-1764 (DAWIA), AFI 10-
 201, AFI 10-403, AFI 36-2201, AFI 36-
 2301, AFI 36-2803, AFI 36-2835, AFI 38-
 204, AFI 64-102, AFI 64-117, AFI 90-201,
 AFFARS Appendix CC, AFFARS 5301.90,
 AFFARS MP 5346.103, AFFARS MP
 5301.602-2(d)
9.1 Superintendent Responsibilities
9.1.1 Enlisted Personnel Career Advisor                                                                  -                -                    A
9.1.2 Advisor to Squadron Leadership on                                                                  -                -                    A
      Enlisted Matters
9.1.3 Unit Deployment Manager                                                                            -                -                    B
9.1.4 Status of Resources and Training                                                                   -                -                    A
      System (SORTS) reporting and AEF
      Reporting Tool (ART) Reporting
9.1.5 Base Exercise Evaluation Team                                                                      -                -                    A
9.2 Superintendent Management Roles
9.2.1 Self-Inspection Program                                                                            -                B                    B
9.2.2 Unit Training Programs
9.2.2.1 On the Job Training (OJT) Program                                                                -                -                    A
9.2.2.2 Formal School Management                                                                         -                -                    B
9.2.2.3 Acquisition Professional                                                                         -                -                    B
         Development Program (APDP)
         Certifications - Defense Acquisition
         Workforce Improvement Act
         (DAWIA)
9.2.3 Contingency Contracting and                                                                        -                -                    B
      Applicable Operational Plans
      (OPLANS)
9.2.4 Contract Review Committee                                                                          -                -                    B
9.2.5 Quality Assurance Program                                                                          -                -                    B
      Coordinator (QAPC) Program
9.2.6 Governmentwide Purchase Card (GPC)                                                                 -                -                    B
      Program
9.2.7 Warrant Program                                                                                    -                -                    B
9.2.8 Ratification Program                                                                               -                -                    B
9.2.9 Unit Manning Document / Unit                                                                       -                -                    B
      Manning Personnel Roster
9.2.10 Awards and Decorations                                                                            -                -                    A
10 FINANCIAL CONCERNS
   TR: AFI 64-301, AFMAN 64-302, 31
   USC 1301, DOD FMR
10.1 Appropriated Fund Contracting                                                                       A                B                    -
10.2 Non-appropriated Fund Contracting                                                                   -                B                    -
10.3 Inter-Service Procedures                                                                            -                B                    -
10.4 Payment Methods                                                                                     A                B                    -
11 ACQUISITION PLANNING
   TR: FAR, DFARS 10 and FAR, DFARS
   and AFFARS 11 and AFI 63-124
11.1 Acquisition Planning                                                                                -                A                    -
11.2 Acquisition Strategy Panel Process                                                                  -                B                    -
11.3 Evaluate Purchase Requests                  5                                                      2c                c                    -
11.4 Evaluate Specifications / Statements of                                                            2b                c                    -
      Need
11.5 Evaluate Statement of Work /                5                                                      2b                c                    -
      Performance Work Statement /
      Statement of Objectives
11.6 Lease vs. Purchase                                                                                  -                B                    -
                                             2. Core 3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                                                Tasks
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References             A          B       C           D               A                B                    C
                                                                                                   3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level        7 Skill Level
                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer         Course           CDC                  CDC
                                                        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials



11.7 Evaluate Brand Name Justification           5                                                       a                b                    -
11.8 Evaluate Sole Source Justification          5                                                       a                b                    -
11.9 Write Memorandum for Record                 5                                                      2c                -                    -
11.10 Conduct/Document Market Research                                                                  2c                c                    -
11.11 Unauthorized Commitments                                                                          A                 B                    -
11.12 Conduct Customer Education                                                                         a                b                    -
11.13 Conduct Contractor Education                                                                       a                b                    -
12 GOVERNMENT SOURCES
  TR: FAR 8
12.1 Determine Mandatory Sources                                                                        2b                -                    -
12.2 Determine Priority for Use                                                                         2b                -                    -
13 SOCIO-ECONOMIC PROGRAMS
  TR: FAR, DFARS, and AFFARS 19
13.1 Small Business Program                                                                             A                 B                    -
13.2 Prepare DD Form 2579                                                                               2b                                     -
14 COMPETITION REQUIREMENTS
  TR: FAR 6, 13, DFARS 206, and
  AFFARS 5306, and AFI 63-301
14.1 Full and Open Competition                                                                           A                B                    -
14.2 Full and Open Competition After                                                                     A                B                    -
     Exclusion of Sources
14.3 Other Than Full and Open Competition                                                                A                B                    -
14.4 Prepare Determinations and Findings         5                                                       a                c                    -
     (D&F)
14.5 Prepare Justifications and Approvals        5                                                       a                c                    -
     (J&A)
14.6 Role of Competition Advocate                                                                        -                B                    -
15 CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITY
  TR: FAR 9
15.1 Contractor Responsibility                                                                          A                 B                    -
15.2 Check Debarred, Suspended or                                                                       2c                -                    -
     Ineligible List of Contractors
15.3 Check Central Contractor Registration                                                              2c                -                    -
     (CCR)
15.4 Prepare Determination of Contractor                                                                 -                a                    -
     Responsibility
16 COMMERCIAL ACQUISITIONS
  TR: FAR and DFARS 12
16.1 Policy & Applicability
16.1.1 Determine Procedures for Solicitation,    5                                                      2c                c                    -
       Evaluation and Award
16.1.2 Other Commercial Practices                                                                        A                B                    -
16.1.3 Select Provisions and Clauses             5                                                       a                b                    -
16.1.4 Tailor Provisions & Clauses                                                                       a                b                    -
16.1.5 Contract Format                                                                                   A                B                    -
16.1.6 Acceptance                                                                                        A                B                    -
16.1.7 Warranties                                                                                        A                B                    -
16.2 Streamlined Procedures                                                                              A                B                    -
17 SIMPLIFIED ACQUISITIONS
  TR: FAR, DFARS, and AFFARS 13 and
  16, and AFI 64-102
17.1 Micro-Purchases                                                                                     A                B                    -
17.2 Commodities                                                                                         A                B                    -
17.3 Services                                                                                            A                B                    -
17.4 Construction                                                                                        A                B                    -
17.5 Commercial Items                                                                                    A                B                    -
17.6 Solicitations
17.6.1 Determine Required Competition            5                                                      2c                c                    -
                                             2. Core 3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                                                Tasks
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References             A          B       C           D               A                B                    C
                                                                                                   3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level        7 Skill Level
                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer         Course           CDC                  CDC
                                                        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials



17.6.2 Publicize Contract Actions                5                                                      2c                c                    -
17.6.3 Issue Request For Quotation (RFQ)         5                                                      2c                c                    -
17.6.4 Conduct Oral Solicitation                                                                        2c                c                    -
17.6.5 Issue Amendments                          5                                                      2c                c                    -
17.6.6 Evaluate Quotations                       5                                                      2c                c                    -
17.7 Prepare Price Fair and Reasonableness       5                                                      2c                c                    -
     Documentation
17.8 Prepare Purchase Order                      5                                                      2c                c                    -
17.9 Prepare Delivery Order                      5                                                      2b                -                    -
17.10 Blanket Purchase Agreement (BPA)
17.10.1 Prepare BPA                              5                                                       a                b                    -
17.10.2 Place BPA Calls                          5                                                       a                b                    -
17.10.3 Administer BPA                           5                                                       a                b                    -
17.11 Administration                                                                                     -                -                    -
17.11.1 Perform Follow-up                                                                               2c                c                    -
17.11.2 Issue Modification                                                                              2c                c                    -
17.11.3 Terminate or Cancel Purchase Order                                                               a                b                    -
17.11.4 Terminate or Cancel Delivery Order                                                               a                b                    -
18 CONTRACTING BY NEGOTIATIONS
  TR: FAR, DFARS, AFFARS 6, 15, 36,
  37, and 52
18.1 Request for Proposal (RFP)
18.1.1 Prepare RFP                               7                                                       a                b                    c
18.1.2 Conduct Pre-Proposal Conference                                                                   -                b                    -
18.1.3 Conduct Site Visit                        7                                                       -                b                    -
18.1.4 Prepare RFP Amendment                     7                                                       -                b                    -
18.1.5 Cancel RFP Before Closing                                                                         -                a                    -
18.1.6 Process Late Proposals,                                                                           -                b                    -
       Modifications, and Cancellations
18.2 Negotiations and Source Selection
18.2.1 Evaluate Proposal
18.2.1.1 Evaluate Past Performance               7                                                       -                b                    c
18.2.1.2 Technical Evaluation                                                                            -                B                    B
18.2.1.3 Establish Competitive Range                                                                     -                b                    c
18.2.2 Conduct Discussions                       7                                                       -                b                    c
18.2.3 Review Proposal Revisions                 7                                                       -                b                    c
18.2.4 Prepare Source Selection Decision                                                                 -                b                    c
18.2.5 Conduct Negotiations                      7                                                       -                b                    c
18.2.6 Document Negotiations                     7                                                       -                b                    c
18.3 Price Analysis
18.3.1 Evaluate Cost or Pricing Data             7                                                                        b                    c
18.3.2 Evaluate Information Other Than Cost      7                                                       -                b                    c
       or Pricing Data
18.4 Cost Analysis
18.4.1 Evaluate Cost or Pricing Data                                                                     -                b                    -
18.4.2 Evaluate Information Other Than Cost                                                              -                b                    -
       or Pricing Data
18.5 Award Documents
18.5.1 Prepare and Document Award                7                                                       -                a                    -
18.5.2 Prepare Notice of Award                   7                                                       -                a                    -
18.5.3 Synopsize Award                           7                                                       -                a                    -
18.6 Debrief Unsuccessful Offerors               7                                                       -                b                    c
19 CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION
  TR: FAR, DFARS, AFFARS 4, 12, 13,
  22, 28, 29, 33, 36, 37, 42, 43, 49, 52, and
  53 AFFARS MP 5346.103, AFFARS MP
  5301.602-2(d)
                                             2. Core 3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                                                Tasks
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References             A          B       C           D               A                B                    C
                                                                                                   3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level        7 Skill Level
                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer         Course           CDC                  CDC
                                                        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials



19.1 General Contract Administration                                                                     A                B                    -
      Information
19.2 Maintain Contract Files                                                                            1a                b                    -
19.3 Commodity Contracts                                                                                A                 B                    -
19.4 Exercise An Option                          5                                                       a                b                    -
19.5 Service Contracts
19.5.1 Conduct Post-Award Conference             7                                                       a                b                    -
19.5.2 Quality Assurance (QA)
19.5.2.1 Attend QAPC Led Training                7                                                       -                -                    -
19.5.2.2 Conduct CO Led/Contract Specific        7                                                       -                b                    -
          Training
19.5.3 Incorporate Prevailing Wage Rate                                                                  a                b                    -
19.6 Construction Contracts
19.6.1 Conduct Preconstruction Orientation       7                                                       a                b                    c
19.6.2 Process Material Approval Submittals      7                                                       a                b                    c
19.6.3 Evaluate Contractor Progress              7                                                       a                b                    c
19.6.4 Davis Bacon Act
19.6.4.1 Incorporate Prevailing Wage Rate                                                                a                -                    -
19.6.4.2 Conduct Labor Interviews                                                                        -                a                    -
19.6.4.3 Validate Payrolls                                                                               -                a                    -
19.7 Contract Modifications
19.7.1 Select Appropriate Modification           5                                                      2b                b                    -
        Authority
19.7.2 Process Administrative Changes            5                                                       a                b                    -
19.7.3 Process Change Orders                     5                                                       a                b                    -
19.7.4 Process Supplemental Agreements           5                                                       a                b                    -
19.8 Terminate Contracts
19.8.1 Issue a Cure Notice                                                                               a                b                    -
19.8.2 Issue Show-Cause Letter                                                                           a                b                    -
19.8.3 Terminate for Convenience                                                                         a                b                    -
19.8.4 Terminate for Default                                                                             a                b                    -
19.8.5 Terminate for Cause                                                                               a                b                    -
19.9 Closeout Contract Files                                                                            1a                b                    -
19.10 Contractor Performance Assessment                                                                  -                A                    B
      (e.g., CPARS)
20 CONTRACTING BY SEALED
  BIDDING
  TR: FAR, DFARS and AFFARS 14
20.1 General Rules for Solicitations of Bids
20.1.1 Preparation of Invitation For Bid                                                                 -                A                    -
        (IFB)
20.1.2 Pre-Bid Conference/site Visit                                                                     -                A                    -
20.1.3 IFB Amendment                                                                                     -                A                    -
20.2 Late Bids/Modifications/Withdrawals of                                                              -                B                    -
      Bids
20.3 Postponement of Bid Openings                                                                        -                A                    -
20.4 Bid Openings                                                                                        -                A                    -
20.5 Bid Evaluation                                                                                      -                A                    -
20.6 Awards                                                                                              -                A                    -
20.7 Information to Unsuccessful Bidders                                                                 -                A                    -
21 CONTRACT FOR ARCHITECT AND                                                                            A                B                    -
  ENGINEERING SERVICES
  TR: FAR, DFARS, and AFFARS 36
22 SIMPLIFIED ACQUISITIONS BASE                                                                          -                B                    b
  ENGINEERING REQUIREMENTS
  (SABER)
  TR: FAR 36
                                             2. Core 3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                                                Tasks
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References             A          B       C           D               A                B                    C
                                                                                                   3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level        7 Skill Level
                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer         Course           CDC                  CDC
                                                        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials



23 ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS                                                                                 -                B                    -
  TR: FAR and DFARS 23, AFI 32-7080,
  and 40 CFR 247
24 COMPETITIVE SOURCING (A76)                                                                            A                B                    -
  TR: OMB A-76
25 STRATEGIC SOURCING
  TR: OMB Memo 20 May 2005,
  Implementing Strategic Sourcing
25.1 Introduction to Strategic Sourcing                                                                  A                B                    -
25.2 Strategic Sourcing Process                                                                          -                A                    -
25.3 Building a Strategic Sourcing Program                                                               -                -                    A
26 BONDS, INSURANCE, AND TAXES
  TR: FAR, DFARS, and AFFARS 28 and
  29
26.1 Bonds                                                                                               -                B                    -
26.2 Insurance                                                                                           -                B                    -
26.3 Tax Provisions                                                                                      -                B                    -
27 PROTESTS, DISPUTES & APPEALS
  TR: FAR, DFARS and AFFARS 33
27.1 Protests                                                                                            A                B                    B
27.2 Prepare Protest Statement of Facts                                                                  -                b                    c
27.3 Disputes                                                                                            -                -                    -
27.3.1 Alternative Dispute Resolution                                                                    A                B                    B
27.3.2 Process Claims                            7                                                       a                b                    c
27.3.3 Respond to Appeals                        7                                                       -                b                    c
28 SAFETY CONCERNS                                                                                       -                A                    A
  TR: AFPAM 91-210
29 CONTINGENCY CONTRACTING
  TR: AFFARS APPENDIX CC, AFI 64-
  301, AFMAN 64-302, AFMAN 10-100,
  AND JOINT CONTRACTING
  CONTINGENCY CONTRACTING
  HANDBOOK
29.1 Fundamentals                                                                                       A                 B                    -
29.2 Contracting Authority                                                                              A                 B                    -
29.3 Establish Workcenter                        7                                                      1a                b                    -
29.4 Identification of Existing Contracting                                                             A                 A                    -
      Assets in Local Area
29.5 Expedited Contracting Procedures                                                                    -                -                    -
29.6 Host Nation Support Agreements                                                                      A                B                    -
29.7 Present Commander's In-brief                5                                                       a                b                    -
29.8 Use of Non-Automated Contracting
      Systems
29.8.1 Prepare Purchase Order                    5                                                      2c                c                    -
29.8.2 Prepare Blanket Purchase Agreement        5                                                      2b                b                    -
       (BPA)
29.8.3 Complete Standard Form 44                 5                                                      2c                -                    -
29.9 Use of Spreadsheets/Purchase Logs           5                                                      2c                -                    -
29.10 After Action Reporting                                                                             -                B                    -
29.11 Complete Governmentwide Purchase           5                                                       -                -                    -
      Card (GPC) training
29.12 Contingency Reporting                                                                              -                B                    -
