DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                      CFETP 2A5X2
Headquarters US Air Force                                                          Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                     1 January 2013




                  AFSC 2A5X2
             HELICOPTER/TILTROTOR
                 MAINTENANCE




            CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
              AND TRAINING PLAN


ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
SUMMARY OF CHANGES. This publication has been substantially revised and must be reviewed in
its entirety. As a result of the May 2012 U&TW, the STSs contained in this CFETP have significant
changes in layout, core tasks, and proficiency codes.




                                                i
                                 CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                    HELICOPTER/TILTROTOR MAINTENANCE
                                                AFSC 2A5X2


                                                                  Table of Contents
PART I                                                                                                                                                   Page

Preface ...........................................................................................................................................................1

Abbreviations/Terms ...................................................................................................................................2

Section A--General Information .................................................................................................................3
   Purpose of the CFETP
   Use of the CFETP
   Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B--Career Field Progression and Information.............................................................................5
   Specialty Description
   Skill and Career Progression
       Apprentice Level (3)
       Journeyman Level (5)
       Craftsman Level (7)
       Superintendent Level (9)
       Training Decisions
   Higher Education and Advanced Certification Opportunities (CCAF, etc)
   Career Field Path
   Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist

Section C—Skill-Level Training Requirements........................................................................................11
   Purpose
   Special Qualification Requirements
       Apprentice Level (3)
       Journeyman Level (5)
       Craftsman Level (7)
       Superintendent Level (9)

Section D--Resource Constraints ................................................................................................................14

Section E--Transitional Training Guide ....................................................................................................14




                                                                               ii
PART II

Section A--Specialty Training Standard (STS) .........................................................................................15

Section B--Course Objective List ...............................................................................................................16

Section C--Support Material .......................................................................................................................17

Section D--Training Course Index .............................................................................................................17

Section E--MAJCOM Unique Requirements ............................................................................................19

STS Attachments

1. Proficiency Code Key .............................................................................................................................21

2. Common Aircraft Qualitative Requirements .......................................................................................23

3. H-60 Qualitative Requirements .............................................................................................................35

4. CV-22 Qualitative Requirements ..........................................................................................................55

B. Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman STS .............................................................................................81




___________________________________________________________________________________
OPR: 362 TRS/TRR
Certified by: Clifton L. Scribner, GS-12 (362 TRS/TRR)
Approved By: CMSgt William Givens (HQ USAF/A4LF)
Supersedes: CFETP 2A5X2, January 2009
Number of Printed Pages: 89




                                                                        iii
                         HELICOPTER/TILTROTOR MAINTENANCE
                                     AFSC 2A5X2
                      CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN


PART I


PREFACE

1. Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). This CFETP is a comprehensive education
and training document that identifies life-cycle education and training requirements, training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for the 2A5X2 career field. This CFETP will provide
personnel a clear career path to success and instills rigor in all aspects of career field training. This
CFETP supersedes CFETP 2A5X2 published January 2009. Information is available at AF/A4LF web
page: https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-LG-AF-35

NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty position qualification
training.

2. CFETP Parts. This CFETP consists of two parts. Supervisors will use both parts to plan, manage,
and control training. Using guidance provided in this CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty
receive effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan will enable us to
train today’s work force for tomorrow’s jobs.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A explains
how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression information, duties, and
responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C associates each level with specialty
qualifications (knowledge, education, experience, training, and other). Section D indicates resource
constraints to accomplishing this plan, such as funds, manpower, equipment, and facilities. Section E
identifies transition training guide requirements for SSgt through MSgt.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and
includes duties, tasks, technical references to support training, Air Education and Training Command
(AETC) conducted training, wartime course/core task, and correspondence course requirements.
Section B contains the course objective list and training standards supervisors will use to determine if
airmen have satisfied training requirements. Section C identifies available support materials, such as
Qualification Training Package (QTP), which may be developed to support proficiency training.
Section D identifies a training course index that supervisors can use to determine if resources are
available to support training. Included here are both mandatory and optional courses. Section E
identifies MAJCOM unique training requirements supervisors can use to determine additional training
required for the associated qualification needs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II to
identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.




                                                      1
ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training. Formal course, which provides individuals who are qualified in their Air Force
Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance their expertise in the career field. Training
is for selected career airmen at the advanced level of an AFS.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a particular
job type or duty position. Supervisors use the AFJQS to document task qualifications. The AFJQS tasks
are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive, multipurpose
document covering the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field. It outlines a logical
growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career field training identifiable,
eliminate duplication, and ensure this training is budget defensible.

Certification. A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required standards.

Certification Official. A person authorized by appropriate commander to determine an individual’s
ability to perform a task to required standards.

Continuation Training. This is additional training that exceeds minimum upgrade requirements and
has an emphasis on present or future duty assignments.

Core Task. Tasks that the Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) identifies as minimum
qualification requirements within an Air Force Specialty. Only a percentage of critical tasks for each
system are listed as mandatory core tasks. This gives units needed flexibility to manage their workforce
training. Items marked with an (*/R) may be deferred for traditional Reservists and traditional
Guardsmen when training opportunities are not available, but must be accomplished at the next available
opportunity.


Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal AETC training and On-The-Job (OJT) training
designed to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video or other
necessary means to supplement training.

Go/No Go Level. In OJT, the stage at which an individual has gained enough skill, knowledge and
experience to either be qualified to perform an identified task without error or cannot perform the task
without error.

Initial Skills Training. A formal school course that results in the award of a 3-skill level AFSC.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training at the duty location used to certify
personnel for both skill level upgrade and duty position qualification.




                                                    2
Proficiency Training. Additional training either in residence or exportable advanced training courses,
or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum
required for upgrade.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies such as money, facilities, time, manpower, or equipment
that preclude desired training from being accomplished.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force document that is published as an attachment to the
appropriate CFETP that describes an Air Force Specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge an airman
may be expected to perform or to know on the job. It serves as a contract between AETC and the
functional user to show which of the overall training requirements for an AFSC are taught in formal
schools, Career Development Courses (CDC), and exportable courses.

Supplemental Training. Formal, standardized training within an AFS that is in addition to required
initial skills training and skill level upgrade training. It may support new/newly assigned equipment,
methods, and/or technology.

Task Certifier. See Certification Official

Training Business Area (TBA). TBA is a Net-Centric, GCSS-AF IF Web-Based application providing
Air Force Warfighters with global, real-time visibility into the technical qualifications, certifications and
training status of logistics, communications and information professionals Air Force wide. TBA
supports base, wing and work center level training management activities by automating training
management business processes. The primary users of TBA will be any personnel directly involved in
base level training management and certification activities. TBA is being developed and maintained by
754th Electronic Systems Group, Installation and Logistics, Maintenance Flight (754 ELSG/ILM) at
Maxwell-Gunter AFB.

Upgrade Training (UGT). A mixture of mandatory courses, task qualification, QTPs, and CDCs
required for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, or 9-skill levels.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum that is convened and chaired on a recurring
basis by the AFCFM, designed to review the appropriate CFETP and its attachments. The purpose is to
ensure currency, accuracy and completeness of content, to include specific formal career ladder training
requirements. Workshops are co-chaired by AETC Training Pipeline Manager and include MAJCOM
Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) Functional Managers, AETC training personnel and Subject Matter
Experts (SMEs).

SECTION A - GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Purpose of the CFETP. This CFETP provides the information necessary for the Air Force Career
Field Managers (AFCFM), MAJCOM functional managers (MFMs), commanders, training managers,
supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective and efficient career field
training program. This plan outlines the training that individuals in AFSC 2A5X2 should receive in
order to develop and progress throughout their career. This CFETP identifies initial skill, upgrade,
qualification, advanced, and proficiency training. Initial skills training is the AFS specific training an



                                                      3
individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the
3-skill level. This training is conducted at various locations by AETC. Upgrade training identifies the
mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, and correspondence course completion requirements
for award of the 5-, 7- and 9-skill levels. Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance
training designed to qualify an airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both
during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills and
knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training is formal specialty training used for selected
airmen. Proficiency training is additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training
courses, or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the
minimum required for upgrade. This CFETP has several purposes:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field-training
program. Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an individual’s
career.

1.2. Identifies tasks and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education and training throughout each phase of an individual's career.

1.3. Lists training courses that are available in the specialty and identifies sources of training and the
training delivery method.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints which impact full implementation of the desired career field
training process.

2. Use of the CFETP. This plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure
comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop or revise formal resident, non-resident, field, and exportable
training based upon requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of this CFETP.
They will also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining the resources
needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial, upgrade, and
proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, contract training, or exportable courses can satisfy
these identified requirements. MAJCOM-developed training, to support this AFSC, must be identified
for inclusion in this plan and must not duplicate other available training resources.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan. The list
of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP. The AFCFM is the approval authority for this CFETP.
The AFCFM for AFSC 2A5X2 will initiate an annual review of this document to ensure currency and
accuracy. The using MAJCOM representatives and AETC training personnel will identify and
coordinate on the career field training requirements. Using the list of courses in Part II, they will
eliminate duplicate training.




                                                      4
SECTION B - CAREER FIELD PROGRESSION INFORMATION

1. Specialty Description:

1.1. Specialty Summary. Maintains helicopter/tiltrotor aircraft, support equipment, forms, and
records. Performs and supervises flight chief, expediter, crew chief, quality assurance and maintenance
support functions. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup:160000.

1.2. Duties and Responsibilities. Refer to Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD) Parts I
and II located on the Air Force Personnel Services page in the Air Force Portal.
Use the following address to access the AFECD:
https://gum-crm.csd.disa.mil/app/answers/detail/a_id/7504/kw/afecd/r_id/100169 or use the following instructions to
access the AFECD: Enter the Air Force Portal, in the search box enter “AFECD” and when results are
displayed, click-on “AFECD - Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory” and log-in.

2. Skill and Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to the
superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force's ability to accomplish its mission. It is
essential that everyone involved in training do their part to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an
effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will ensure each individual
receives viable training at appropriate points in their career. Use table 5.1 Enlisted Career Path in
conjunction with information below to manage career field skill progression.

2.1. Apprentice (3) Level. Upon completion of initial skills training, a trainee will work with a trainer
to enhance their knowledge and skills. They will utilize the CDC, task qualification training, and
available exportable courses for continued advancement. Once task certified, a trainee may perform the
task unsupervised. Shred identifiers are assigned for initial-skills courses for scheduling and assignment
purposes. Shred identifiers and SEI codes are provided in the AFECD.

2.2. Journeyman (5) Level. Individuals must complete formal 5-level OJT training. This training
involves completion of CDC 2A552, as well as completion of all identified core task qualification
training requirements. Available proficiency/supplementary training should be completed as early as
duty permits. Five-levels are assigned shred identifiers for scheduling and assignment purposes, and
may be assigned job positions such as quality assurance and various staff positions. Five-levels will be
considered for appointment as unit trainers. Individuals will use their CDCs to prepare for testing under
the Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS). They should continue their education toward an
associate’s or higher educational degree from the Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) or other
accredited institution.

2.3. Craftsman (7) Level. Individuals must complete formal 7-level OJT. This training involves
completion of CDC 2AX7X as well as completion of all identified core task qualification training
requirements. Available proficiency/supplementary training should be completed as early as duty
permits. A craftsman can expect to fill various supervisory and management positions such as shift
leader, element NCOIC, flight/section chief, and task certifier. They can also be assigned to work in
staff positions. They should continue their education toward an associate’s or higher educational degree
from the Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) or other accredited institution. Once promoted




                                                        5
to TSgt, the shred identifier drops from the control AFSC (CAFSC) and the individual can be assigned
to other aircraft.

2.4. Superintendent (9) Level. Individuals promoted to SMSgt must attend the Senior
Noncommissioned Officer Academy. Additional training in the areas of budget, manpower, resources,
and personnel management should be pursued through continuing education. Completion of college
courses in the pursuit of a higher-level educational degree is also recommended. Once promoted to
SMSgt, an individual can be assigned to other aircraft.

3. Training Decisions. This CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to encompass
the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Aircraft Maintenance 2A5X2 career field. The
spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet these training requirements. The
strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce duplication of training and eliminate a disjointed
approach to training. The following training decisions were made by MAJCOM Functional Managers
and Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) at the career field Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) held
May 2012 at Joint Base Langley-Eustis, VA.

3.1. Initial Skills. Significant changes were made to initial skills training. The 2A5X2 and 2A5X1
fundamental courses for the CV-22 course may become merged to provide a single initial skills course
for CV-22 crew chiefs.

3.2. Five-Level Upgrade Requirements. Significant changes were made to 5-level upgrade
requirements.

3.3. Seven-Level Upgrade Requirements. New SSgts will complete the 2AX7X CDC. The U&TW
committee believed it was impractical to teach system theory and troubleshooting via a career
development course or computer-based training (CBT).

3.4. Proficiency/Continuation Training (see pg 2/3). Additional knowledge and skill requirements,
which are not taught through initial skills or upgrade training, are accomplished by unit training or Field
Training Detachments (FTD). The purpose of continuation training is to provide additional training,
exceeding minimum upgrade training requirements, with emphasis on present and future duty positions.
To provide additional training in this area, MAJCOMs must develop a continuation training program
that ensures individuals in the aerospace maintenance career field receive the necessary training at the
appropriate point in their career. The training program will identify both mandatory and optional
training requirements. The CBTs for Integrated Maintenance Data System (IMDS) were discontinued 1
Mar 12 and FTD is developing new courses. Refer to Part II, Section D, (Training Course Index), of
this CFETP for a listing of available AETC supplementary training courses.

4. CCAF/Higher Education and Advanced Certification Opportunities. Higher education and
advanced certification is a personal choice that is encouraged for the professional development of the
entire enlisted force. Listed below are some current opportunities:

4.1. CCAF Academic Programs. Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon completion of Basic Military
Training (BMT). CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate in Applied Sciences Degree.




                                                     6
4.1.1. Degree Requirements: Prior to completing an associate degree, the 5-level must be awarded
and the following requirements must be met:
                                                                               Semester Hours
   Technical Education…………………………………………………………………….…24
   Leadership, Management, and Military Studies…………………………………..…….…..6
   Physical Education…………………………………………………………………..……...4
   General Education…………………………………………………………………….…...15
   Program Elective……………………………………………………………………….….15
        Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and Military
        Studies; or General Education
   Total…………………………………………………………………….…………………64

4.1.1.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours). A minimum of 12 semester hours of Technical
Core subjects and courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied from Technical
Core or Technical Elective subjects and courses. Completion of the initial skills resident training
satisfies all or part of the technical education requirement.

4.1.1.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours). Professional military
education and/or civilian management courses.

4.1.1.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours). This requirement is satisfied by completion of Basic
Military Training.

4.1.1.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours). Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement with the
definitions of applicable General Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF General Catalog.

4.1.1.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours). Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects and courses, including
natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Six semester hours of CCAF degree-
applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied. See the CCAF
General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science degree for this specialty.

4.1.2. CCAF Instructor Certification. Upon completion of instructor qualification training, consisting
of the instructor methods course and supervised practice teaching, CCAF instructors who possess an
associate’s degree or higher may be nominated by their school commander and commandant for
certification as an instructor.

4.1.3. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill certification is
awarded for the primary occupational specialty. The College uses a competency based assessment
process for trade skill certification at one of four proficiency levels: Apprentice, Journeyman,
Craftsman (Supervisor), or Master Craftsman (Manager). All are transcribed on the CCAF transcript.

4.2. AETC Instructor. Individuals desiring to become an AETC Instructor should be actively pursuing
an associate's degree. Special Duty Assignment (SDA) requires an AETC Instructor candidate to have a
CCAF degree or be within one year of completion (45 Semester Hours [SH]).



                                                    7
A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges
and Schools. An AETC instructor can also be awarded an Associates of Applied Science, Instructor of
Technology and Military Science degree.

4.3. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Airframe and Power plant (A&P) Certification. Air
Force aircraft maintenance technicians are eligible to pursue FAA A&P certification based on training
and experience in accordance with Federal Aviation Regulation Part 65. The DoD established the Joint
Service Aviation Maintenance Technician Certification Council (JSAMTCC) to standardize the
eligibility and certification process for the military and provide direction and resources necessary to fill
the gaps within military training and experience. The program consists of on-the-job (OJT) training,
three Air University Online A&P Specialized Courses, documented evidence of 30 months practical
experience in airframe and powerplant systems, and 4 years time-in-service. CCAF manages the AF
A&P Certification Program. Technicians may enroll in the program and begin training once they have
been awarded their 5-skill level. To learn more and enroll in the program, visit CCAF’s website at
https://augateway.maxwell.af.mil/ccaf/certifications/a_and_p/. The CCAF currently awards 30
Semester hours for the FAA A&P certification and 18 Semester hours for the FAA Airframe or Power
plant certification.

4.4. Other Certification Programs. CCAF is actively pursuing other licensure and certification
opportunities related to specific career fields. To learn more about other certification opportunities visit
CCAF’s website at https://augateway.maxwell.af.mil/ccaf/certifications/programs/.




                                                      8
5. Career Field Path:

NOTE: For the latest information My Development Plan (MyDP) (formerly MyEDP), log on to the AF
Portal, and click on the MyDP link under Education/Training/Force Development.

5.1. Enlisted Career Path. Table 5.1 identifies career milestones for the 2A5X2 Air Force Specialty.

                     Table 5.1 Enlisted Career Path (Airman Promotion Reference AFI 36-2502)
                                                                             Grade Requirements
  Education and Training Requirements                  Rank        Average         Earliest        High Year Of Tenure
                                                                   Sew-On         Sew-On                   (HYT)
  Basic Military Training School
  Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)          Amn         6 months
                                                       A1C        10 months
  Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level)                Amn
  - Minimum 12 months on-the-job training (9           A1C        10 months
    months for retrainees).                             SrA         3 years      28 months                 8 Years
  - Complete all 5-level core tasks.
  - Complete appropriate CDC if/when available.
  Airman Leadership School (ALS)                                                   Trainer
  - Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service or - Qualified and certified to perform the task to be trained.
    be a SSgt Selectee.                              - Must attend formal AF Trainer Course
  - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt   - Recommended by the supervisor
    sew-on (Active Duty Only).
                                                                                   Certifier
                                                     - Possess at least a SSgt with a5-skill level or civilian equivalent;
                                                       and qualified and certified to perform the task being certified
                                                     - Attend formal AF Trainer Course
                                                     - Be a person other than the trainer except for AFSCs, duty
                                                       positions, units and/or work centers with specialized training
                                                       standardization and certification requirements.
  Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)                 SSgt        7.5 years       3 years                15 Years
  - Minimum rank of SSgt.
  - Minimum 12 months on-the-job training (6
    months for retrainees).
  - Complete all 5- and 7-level core tasks.
  - Complete appropriate CDCs if/when available.
  Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)               TSgt       12.5 years       5 years                20 Years
  - Must be a TSgt or TSgt Selectee.
  - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt
    sew-on (Active Duty Only).                         MSgt        16 years        8 years                24 Years
  USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)                     SMSgt       19.2 years      11 years                26 Years
  - Must be a SMSgt or SMSgt Selectee.
  - SMSgt selects must complete In-resident PME
    before assuming this rank
  - A percentage of top non-select (for promotion to
    E-8) MSgts attend the SNCOA each year.
  Upgrade To Superintendent (9-Skill Level)           CMSgt       21.5 years      14 years                30 Years
  - Minimum rank of SMSgt.




                                                             9
 5.2. Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist:

  Table 5.2. Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist
  Requirements for Upgrade to:                                                                   Y N
  Journeyman
  - Does apprentice possess 2A532 AFSC?
  - Has apprentice completed mandatory CDCs?
  - Has apprentice completed all appropriate 5-level core tasks identified in the CFETP?
  - Has apprentice completed minimum 12 months UGT (9 months for retrainees) for award
    of 5-skill level?
  - Has apprentice met mandatory requirements listed in specialty description, AECD and CFETP?
  - Has apprentice been recommended by their supervisor?
  Craftsman
  -   Does Journeyman possess 2A552 AFSC?
  -   Has journeyman achieved the rank of SSgt?
  -   Has journeyman completed mandatory CDCs?
  -   Has journeyman completed all core tasks identified in the CFETP?
  - Has journeyman completed minimum 12 months UGT (6 months for retrainees) for
    award of 7-skill level?



TO: Squadron/CC

FROM: Squadron Training Manager

SUBJECT: Upgrade Trainee

Trainee is prepared to be upgraded and has completed all mandatory training requirements.


_______________________                                        _____________________
    Training Manager                                                 Supervisor




                                                      10
SECTION C – SKILL-LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

1. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of tasks and
knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each skill
level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award, and retention
of each skill level. The specific tasks and knowledge training requirements are identified in the STS at
Part II, Sections A, B, and D of this CFETP.

2. Specialty Qualification Requirements.

2.1. Apprentice Level Training (3-Level):

2.1.1. Specialty Qualification. This information will be located in the official specialty description in
the AFECD.

2.1.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: principles applying to aircraft systems; flight theory;
hydraulic principles; electrical theory; principles, concepts, and application of maintenance directives
and data reporting; interpreting and using maintenance data reports and technical orders; Air Force
supply and deficiency reporting procedures; resource management; and proper handling, use, and
disposal of hazardous waste and materials.

2.1.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty completion of high school is mandatory. Completion
of related vocational courses is highly desirable.

2.1.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2A532, completion of a suffix specific basic aircraft
maintenance course, as applicable is mandatory.

2.1.1.4. Experience. There is no experience necessary for entry into AFSC 2A532.

2.1.1.5. Other. For entry into this specialty normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical
Examination and Standards is required. See attachment four of the AFECD for additional entry
requirements. Specialty requires routine access to Secret material or similar environment. For award
and retention of AFSC 2A5X2, completion of a current National Agency Check, Local Agency Checks
and Credit (NACLC) according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management.

NOTE: Award of the 3-skill level without a completed NACLC is authorized provided an interim
Secret security clearance has been granted according to AFI 31-501.

2.1.2. Training Sources and Resources. Formal AETC initial skills courses provide the required
knowledge and task proficiency training for award of the 3-skill level. Training includes
fundamental/common maintenance requirements, system theory and operation, system components,
component removal and installation, introduction to maintenance concepts, general flight line
maintenance practices, use of technical publications, maintenance documentation, and AGE/SE
equipment familiarization and use.




                                                    11
2.1.3. Implementation. Upon graduation from Basic Military Training, Airmen are assigned to the
82d Training Wing, 82 Training Group, 362d Training Squadron, to attend formal technical training
appropriate to his or her end assignment and type aircraft. Successful completion of formal technical
training (listed in Part II, section D paragraph 2) results in the award of the 3-skill level.

2.2. Journeyman Level Training (5-Level):

2.2.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is derived from qualitative training requirements from
the applicable aircraft attachment listed in this CFETP.

2.2.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to the 3-level qualifications, a 5-level must possess the knowledge and
skills necessary to maintain aircraft systems and associated systems. An individual must be task
qualified on aircraft inspections, servicing, ground handling, troubleshooting, component
removal/repair/installation, and system component operational checks. Journeymen perform operational
checks, component repair, and use and maintenance of test and support equipment. Individuals can
apply the proper handling, use, and disposal of hazardous waste and materials IAW federal and local
environmental standards.

2.2.1.2. Education: There are no formal education requirements for upgrade to AFSC 2A552.
However, progress toward a CCAF Associate’s Degree is highly encouraged.

2.2.1.3. Training: Completion of the journeyman aircraft maintenance career development course
(CDC), 2A552 CDC duty position tasks, and completion of the core tasks specified in the STS is
mandatory.

2.2.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A532 with appropriate shred is
required. Also, experience in functions such as repairing and maintaining aircraft or related installed
equipment is required.

2.2.1.5. Other. For entry into this specialty, normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical
Examination and Standards is required. See attachment four of the AFECD for additional entry
requirements. Specialty requires routine access to Secret material or similar environment. For award
and retention of AFSC 2A5X2, completion of a current National Agency Check, Local Agency Checks
and Credit (NACLC) according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management.

2.2.2. Training Sources and Resources. The 5-level (2A552) CDC provides the career knowledge
training required. Qualification training and OJT will provide training and qualification on the core
tasks identified in the STS. The CDC is written to build from the trainee's current knowledge base and
provides more in-depth knowledge to support OJT requirements.

2.2.3. Implementation. The units utilizing this STS, exportable courses, and CDCs perform training to
the 5-level. Upgrade to the 5-level requires completion of the 2A552 CDC, completion of all 5-level
core tasks as identified in the STS for one MDS, and 12 months upgrade training (9 months for
retrainees).




                                                    12
2.2.4. Supervisor/Training Manager Input. Utilize Table 5.2 Base/Unit Education and Training
Checklist as applicable to facilitate upgrade actions.

2.3. Craftsman Level Training (7-Level):

2.3.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is derived from qualitative training requirements
from the applicable aircraft attachment listed in this CFETP.

2.3.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to the 5-level qualifications, an individual must possess advanced
skills and knowledge of theory, concepts, and principles of aircraft maintenance. The 7-level must be
able to supervise and train personnel to maintain 2A5X2 systems. They must be able to plan, schedule,
and organize maintenance to ensure effective utilization of available resources. Qualification is required
on advanced repair, inspection, troubleshooting, and diagnostic techniques. Historical documentation
analysis is also required for all 7-levels.

2.3.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for the
apprentice level. However, progress toward a CCAF Associate’s Degree is highly encouraged.

2.3.1.3. Training. Completion of CDC, 2AX7X, is mandatory for upgrade to AFSC 2A572.

2.3.1.4. Experience. Completion of all required 7-level core tasks as identified in the STS for one
MDS, and qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A572. Also, experience in functions such as
repairing and maintaining aircraft or related installed equipment, and powered and non-powered ground
SE is required.

2.3.1.5. Other. For entry into this specialty, normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical
Examination and Standards is required. See attachment four of the AFECD for additional entry
requirements. Specialty requires routine access to Secret material or similar environment. For award
and retention of AFSC 2A572, completion of a current National Agency Check, Local Agency Checks
and Credit (NACLC) according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management.

2.3.2. Training Sources and Resources. Seven-level upgrade training will be completed and
conducted by certified trainers using AF core tasks and unit/MAJCOM specific courses.

2.3.3. Supervisor/Training Manager Input. Utilize Table 5.2 Base/Unit Education and Training
Checklist as applicable to facilitate upgrade actions.

2.3.4. Implementation. Units utilizing the STS and CDCs perform training to the 7-level. Upgrade to
the 7-level requires completion of CDC 2AX7X, completion of all core tasks as identified in the STS for
one MDS, 12 months upgrade training (6 months for retrainees), and promotion to Staff Sergeant.

2.4. Superintendent Level Training (9-Level):

2.4.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is derived from qualitative training requirements
from the applicable aircraft attachment listed in this CFETP.




                                                   13
2.4.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to 7-level qualifications, an individual must possess advanced
skills and knowledge of concepts and principles in the management of aircraft maintenance. The 9-
level needs to be an effective leader with the ability to forecast, budget, and manage funds. They
must be knowledgeable of federal and local environmental standards and ensure adherence to the
proper handling and disposal of hazardous materials. Also required is the ability to evaluate
maintenance, interpret and resolve technical problems, and to analyze system and component
failures and inspection results.

2.4.1.2. Education. There are no additional requirements.

2.4.1.3. Training. An individual must be trained to perform duties at the 9 skill-level to include the
following: advanced skills and knowledge of concepts and principles in the management of maintenance
efforts on aircraft and aircraft systems; efficient management and direction of aerospace repairs to
include planning and organizing resources, evaluating maintenance, interpreting and resolving technical
problems, analyzing system and component failures and inspection results, determining optimum
management procedures and requirements, and the management and projection of funds to support
maintenance efforts.

2.4.1.4. Experience. For award of AFSC 2A590, qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A572 is
mandatory. Also, experience in managing, supervising, or directing functions associated with
maintaining aircraft is mandatory.

2.4.1.5. Other. Not used.

2.4.2. Training Sources and Resources. No formal training is required. Qualification training and
experience inherent in career specialty job performance are desired sources of training.

2.4.3. Implementation. The 9-level will be awarded after promotion to SMSgt.

SECTION D - RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS

1. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies known resource constraints, which preclude optimum
and desired training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and
manpower. Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what
effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section are actions required,
office of primary responsibility (OPR), and target completion dates. Resource constraints will be, as a
minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

There are no resource constraints identified for training in this AFSC.

SECTION E - TRANSITIONAL TRAINING GUIDE

There is currently no transition training requirement. This area is reserved.




                                                   14
PART II

SECTION A – SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD (STS)

1. Implementation. These Specialty Training Standard (STS) attachments will be used for technical
training provided by AETC for classes beginning on 1 February 2013 for the H-60 and 1 July 2013 for
the CV-22.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:

2.1. Column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) lists the most common tasks, knowledge,
and technical references (TR) necessary for airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level.

2.2. Column 2 (Core Tasks) identifies, by asterisk (*), specialty-wide training requirements. Items
marked with an (*/R) may be deferred for traditional Reservists and traditional Guardsmen when
training opportunities are not available, but must be accomplished at the next available opportunity.
As a minimum, certification on all AFCFM directed core tasks applicable to the specialty must be
completed for skill level upgrade.
Exemptions:

2.2.1. Core tasks that are not applicable to base assigned aircraft or equipment are not required for
upgrade (units are not required to send personnel TDY for core task training).

2.2.2. For units with more than one mission-design-series (MDS) aircraft, upgrade trainees need only
complete core tasks on a single MDS. MFMs, unit commanders, and/or supervisors may require
trainees to complete core task training on additional MDS aircraft, if desired. If some of these core
tasks involve training in another unit on base, trainees must still complete all core tasks relevant to at
least one MDS aircraft. All units are bound by the requirements in this CFETP and will accommodate
core task trainees from other units.

2.3. Column 3 (Certification for OJT) provides certification for OJT and is used to record completion
of tasks and knowledge training requirements. Use IMDS/G081 or Training Business Area (TBA) to
document technician qualifications, if available. Task certification must show a certification or
completed date.

2.4. Column 4 (Proficiency Codes) shows formal training and correspondence course requirements.
Also shows the proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the
task and knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course.

3. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to indicate the
level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career development courses.

4. Job Qualification Standard. The STS becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job
training when placed in AF Form 623, On-The-Job Training Record, and used according to AFI 36-
2201. For OJT, the tasks in column 1 are trained and qualified to the go/no go level. "Go" means the




                                                     15
individual can perform the task without assistance and meets local requirements for accuracy,
timeliness, and correct procedures. When used as a JQS, the following requirements apply:

4.1 Documentation. Document and certify completion of training IAW AFI 36-2201. Units
converted to Training Business Area (TBA) will use this system to document training. IMDS or G081
will continue to be used to document ancillary training and other training currently maintained in these
data systems. Use of Part II and attachments one and two of this CFETP are mandatory in individual
training records where paper training records are the primary method of documenting training.

4.1.1. Transcribing from Old CFETP to New CFETP. All AFJQSs and previous CFETPs are replaced
by this CFETP; therefore, transcribing of all training records to this CFETP STS is mandatory. Use
this CFETP STS (or automated STS) to identify and certify all past and current qualifications.
Document and certify all previous and current training IAW AFI 36-2201.

5. STS. A guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion System
(WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the AETC Airman Advancement
Division, by Senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their career fields. The tests sample
knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development team members as most appropriate
for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon study references listed in the Enlisted
Promotions References and Requirements Catalog (EPRRC) https://www.omsq.af.mil/TE/EPRRC.pdf
Individual responsibilities are in AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion Program. WAPS is not applicable to
the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve.

6. Recommendations. Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates to the
AETC training manager at 362 TRS, 613 10th Ave, Sheppard AFB TX, 76311-2352, DSN 736-1484.
Please reference specific STS paragraphs.

SECTION B - COURSE OBJECTIVE LIST (COL)

1. Introduction. Each proficiency coded STS task or knowledge item taught at the technical school is
measured through the use of an objective. An objective is a written instruction for the student so he or
she knows what is expected of them to successfully complete training on each task. Each objective is
comprised of a condition, behavior, and standard that states what is expected of the student for each task.
The condition is the setting in which the training takes place (i.e. TOs, type of equipment, etc). The
behavior is the observable portion of the objective (i.e. perform an operational check). The standard is
the level of performance that is measured to ensure the STS proficiency code level is attained. AETC
course objectives and associated information are published in the Plan of Instruction (POI) for each of
the courses identified in Section D, below, Training Course Index.

2. Measurement. Each objective is indicated as follows: W indicates task or subject knowledge,
which is measured using a written test. PC indicates required task performance, which is measured with
a performance progress check. PC/W indicates separate measurement of both knowledge and
performance elements using a written test and a performance progress check.

3. Standard. The minimum standard for written examinations is 70%. Standards for performance
measurement are indicated in the objective and delineated on the individual progress check checklist.



                                                    16
The checklist is used by the instructor to document each student’s progress, on each task. Instructor
assistance is provided as needed during the progress check, and students may be required to repeat all or
part of the behavior until satisfactory performance is attained. Students must satisfactorily complete all
PCs prior to taking the written test.

4. Proficiency Level. Review column 4A of the STS to determine the proficiency level of a particular
task or knowledge item. Review the course objective list to determine which STS item the objective
supports. Review the proficiency code key in the STS Attachment 1 of this CFETP for an explanation
of the proficiency codes. Most task performance is taught to the ‘2b’ proficiency level which means the
students can do most parts of the task, but does need assistance on the hardest parts of the task (partially
proficient). The student can also determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task. For tasks that
are taught to the ‘3c’ proficiency level, students can do all parts of the task and only require a spot check
on completed work (competent). The student can also identify why and when a task must be done and
why each step is needed.

5. Course Objectives List. A detailed listing of initial skills or craftsman courses are listed in Section
D tables 2.1 and 2.2 and a complete list of objectives may be obtained by submitting a written request to
the identified course OPR in Section D, paragraph 1. Course descriptions can be found on line in the
Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA). The URL for ETCA is:
https://etca.randolph.af.mil/

SECTION C - SUPPORT MATERIAL

1. Support Material. Interactive Courseware (ICW) is available from the 367 TRS/TRSS at Hill AFB
Utah. To obtain more information, request a copy of the Courseware Catalog from 367 TRS, 6058
Aspen, Hill AFB UT 84056-5805. Their customer service number is DSN 586-7294. To request
ordering information on hardware, your MAJCOM training POC (for ACC, AMC, and ANG) is the first
stop. For personnel in other MAJCOMs, contact them directly and they will provide you the
information required for purchasing the item through them. If you decide to purchase the system, they
will FAX you the AF Form 616 to use for an example.

SECTION D - TRAINING COURSE INDEX

1. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the 2A5X2 specialty
and shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field training programs.
For further information on the following courses, contact the OPR as indicated:

  OPR:     362 TRS/TRR                                           373 TRS/TD
           613 10th Avenue, Suite 3                              912 Avenue I, Suite 3
           Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2352                           Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2852
           DSN 736-1484                                          DSN 736-4788

Website: https://etca.randolph.af.mil/




                                                     17
2. Air Force In-resident Courses:

NOTE: Unless otherwise stated in the Course Title block below, airframe specific STS elements are
trained in the course(s) listed in the 2A5X2 Course Objective Training Matrix, attachment B.

Table 2.1
Course Number             Course Title               Location            OPR        USER    Course
                                                                                            Length
                           UH-60 HELICOPTER              Joint Base
J9ABA2A532B030A            REPAIRER (ITRO)                Langley-      362 TRS     USAF      73
                           (600-15T10)                   Eustis, VA
                           AEROSPACE
                          MAINTENANCE                 Sheppard AFB,
J3AQR2A532D021A                                                         362 TRS     USAF      23
                          APPRENTICE (CV-                 TX
                          22)
                           AEROSPACE
                          MAINTENANCE                    MCAS New
JCABP2A532D021B                                                         362 TRS     USAF      47
                          APPRENTICE (CV-                River, NC
                          22)

NOTE: For further information on the supplemental courses, contact the OPR as indicated.

OPR: 362 TRS/TRR                         373 TRS
     613 10th Avenue, Suite 3            912 Avenue I, Suite 3
     Sheppard AFB, TX 76311              Sheppard AFB, TX 76311
     DSN 736-1484                        DSN 736-4750

Website: https://etca.randolph.af.mil/




Table 2.2 Supplemental Courses
Supplemental Course Number           Course Title                                 OPR       User
JCAZP2A5X2D021A                      CV-22 Crew Chief Familiarization             362 TRS   USAF
J3ABA2A5XX 048A                      CDDAR                                        362 TRS   USAF
J6ANW2AXXX0W1A                       Helicopter Weight and Balance                362 TRS   USAF
J6AZW2AX5X0F1A                       IMDS for Flightline                          362 TRS   USAF
J6AZW2AX5X0B1A                       IMDS for Backshop                            362 TRS   USAF
J6AZW2AX5X0S1A                       IMDS for Supervisors                         362 TRS   USAF
J3AZR2AXXX 0W1A                      Weight and Balance Practical                 362 TRS   USAF
J3AAR2AXXX 048A                      Crash Damaged, Disabled Aircraft             362 TRS   USAF
                                     Recovery




                                                    18
3. Extension Course Programs. Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning (AU/A4L)
Courses (website: http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/)

   OPRs: 362 TRS/TRR
         613 10th Avenue
         Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2352
         DSN 736-1484

Table 3.1 CDC Courses
Course Number                  Course Title                                  OPR            User
CDC 2A552 (3 Volumes)          Helicopter/Tiltrotor Journeyman               362 TRS        USAF
CDC 2AX7X (2 Volumes)          Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman               362 TRS        USAF


4. Exportable Courses:

The 367 TRS course catalog can be ordered by contacting the OPR at the following address:

OPR:        367 TRS
            6058 Aspen Ave
            Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805
            DSN 586-7294

The following course can be found on the ETCA website, available through AETC ADLS:

OPR:        362 TRS/TRR
            613 10th Avenue
            Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2352
            DSN 736-1484

Table 4.1 Exportable Courses
Course Number              Course Title/Media                               OPR             User
J6ANW2AXXX 0W1A             Weight and Balance (General)                    362 TRS         USAF
J6AZW2AXXX 0Q1A             Quality Assurance Aircraft                      362 TRS         USAF


5. Courses Under Development/Revision. There are currently no courses under development or
revision. This area is reserved.

SECTION E - MAJCOM UNIQUE REQUIREMENTS

For MAJCOM unique requirements, refer to the MAJCOM mandatory course lists.

   CAF MCL https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/docman/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&FolderID=OO-TE-AC-
        42-14&Filter=OO-TE-AC-42



                                                 19
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE



OFFICIAL
                                               JUDITH A. FEDDER
                                               Lieutenant General, USAF
                                               DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support


5 Attachments
1. Proficiency Code Key
2. STS Aircraft Maintenance Common Training Qualitative Requirements
3. STS H-60 Aircraft Qualitative Requirements
4. STS CV-22 Aircraft Qualitative Requirements
5. STS Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman




                                              20
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                Initials (Written)                     SSAN (last four only)

                                             Printed Name Of Training/Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                           N/I

N/I                                                                            N/I

N/I                                                                            N/I

N/I                                                                            N/I

N/I                                                                            N/I

N/I                                                                            N/I

N/I                                                                            N/I

N/I                                                                            N/I

N/I                                                                            N/I

N/I                                                                            N/I

                                                 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                               Proficiency Code Key
                         Scale Value         Definition: The individual
                                             IS EXTREMELY LIMITED (Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how
                               1             to do most of the task.)
    Task                                     IS PARTIALLY PROFICIENT (Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest
                               2             parts.)
Performance
                               3             IS COMPETENT (Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work.)
   Levels
                                             IS HIGHLY PROFICIENT (Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show
                               4             others how to do the task.)
                              a              KNOWS NOMENCLATURE (Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. )
   *Task                      b              KNOWS PROCEDURES (Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. )
 Knowledge                                   KNOWS OPERATING PRINCIPLES (Can identify why and when the task must be done and
                              c
   Levels                                    why each step is needed.)
                              d              KNOWS ADVANCED THEORY (Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task.)
                              A              KNOWS FACTS (Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject.)
 **Subject                                   KNOWS PRINCIPLES (Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles
                              B              about the subject.)
 Knowledge                                   KNOWS ANALYSIS (Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject.)
                              C
   Levels                                    KNOWS EVALUATION (Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the
                              D              subject.)
Explanations:
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific
task. (Example: b and 1b)
** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or
for a subject common to several tasks.
- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the courses or CDCs.
/ This mark is used in course columns along with proficiency codes to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in
resources (3c/c, 2b/b, 2b/- etc.).
Note: All tasks and knowledge items taught in the initial skills course are trained during war time.




                                                                          21                                                     Attachment 1
This Page Intentionally Left Blank




                22
                       AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                         2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                             To Indicate
                                                                                                                             Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                B        C           A         B         C        D        E         A       B        C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                              Level Level       Level
                                                         5 Level   7 Level     Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (2)
                                                                               Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC
NOTE 1: Users are responsible for annotating training references pending STS revision.
NOTE 2: All task/knowledge taught in the initial skills course trained in the resident wartime courses.
NOTE 3: Items marked with an (*/R) are optional for ANG/ AFRC when training is not available, but must be accomplished when
training opportunity becomes available (execpt for air reserve technicians and fulltime technicians for upgrade).
A2.1          CAREER LADDER PROGRESSION
              TR: AIR FORCE ENLISTED
              CLASSIFICATION DIRECTORY
              (AFECD)

A2.1.1        Progression in career ladder                                                                                     A        -        -

A2.1.2        Duties of AFS                                                                                                    A       A         -

A2.1.3        Core values                                                                                                       -       B        -

A2.2          SECURITY

A2.2.1        INFORMATION ASSURANCE (IA)
              AWARENESS
A2.2.1.1      Definition of communications security
                                                                                                                                -       -        -
              COMSEC
A2.2.1.2      Definition of computer security
                                                                                                                                -       -        -
              COMPUSEC
A2.2.1.3      Prevent security violations                                                                                       -       -        -

A2.2.1.4      Use MAJCOM/FOA EEFIs                                                                                              -       -        -
A2.2.1.5      Observe security precautions involved in
                                                                                                                                -       -        -
              communication
A2.2.1.6      Common COMPUSEC vulnerabilities                                                                                   -       -        -

A2.2.1.7      COMPUSEC vulnerability prevention                                                                                 -       -        -
A2.2.2        OPERATION SECURITY (OPSEC)
              TR: AFI 10-1101

A2.2.2.1      Definition of OPSEC                                                                                              A        -        -
A2.2.2.2      Relationship of OPSEC to other security
              programs such as COMSEC, information                                                                              -       -        -
              security and physical security
A2.2.2.3      Common OPSEC vulnerabilities                                                                                      -       -        -

A2.2.2.4      OPSEC significance of unclassified data                                                                           -       -        -

A2.2.2.5      Specific OPSEC vulnerabilities                                                                                   A        -        -

A2.2.2.6      Classify information                                                                                              -       -        -
A2.3          AF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND
              HEALTH (AFOSH) PROGRAM
              TR: APPLICABLE AFOSH STANDARDS;
              AFIS 21-101, 36-2201, AND 36-2203




                                                                         23                                                          Attachment 2
                         AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                       2. Core Tasks       3. Certification For OJT                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                          To Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information
                                                                                                                          Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              B        C          A         B         C        D        E         A       B        C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                           Level Level       Level
                                                       5 Level   7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (2)
                                                                            Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC
A2.3.1        Housekeeping consistent with safety of
                                                                                                                            A        B        -
              personnel and equipment
A2.3.2        AF Risk management                                                                                            A        -        -
A2.3.3        Maintenance resource management
                                                                                                                            A        -        -
              TR: AFI21-101, USAF MRM Lesson Plan
A2.3.4.       SAFETY PRECAUTIONS PERTAINING TO
              PERFORMING AIRCRAFT
              MAINTENANCE
              TR: AFI 11-218; AFOSH STD 91-501 AND
              161-20; AFMAN 91-201; TOS 1-1-691 AND
              00-25-172; AIRCRAFT SPECIFIC TOS

A2.3.4.1      Engine air intake and exhaust                                                                                 A        B        -

A2.3.4.2      High intensity sound                                                                                          A        B        -

A2.3.4.3      Turbine plane of rotation                                                                                     A        B        -

A2.3.4.4      Radio frequency radiation                                                                                     A        B        -

A2.3.4.5      Ground handling of aircraft                                                                                   A        B        -

A2.3.4.6      Hot brakes                                                                                                    A        B        -

A2.3.4.7      Use of tools and equipment                                                                                    A        B        -

A2.3.4.8      Aircraft systems Servicing                                                                                    A        B        -

A2.3.4.9      Cleaning agents                                                                                               A        B        -

A2.3.4.10     Solvents                                                                                                      A        B        -

A2.3.4.11     Lubricants                                                                                                    A        B        -

A2.3.4.12     High pressure gasses                                                                                          A        B        -

A2.3.4.13     Aircraft explosive equipment/material                                                                         A        B        -

A2.3.4.14     Composite materials                                                                                           A        B        -
A2.3.5        PORTABLE GROUND FIRE
              EXTINGUISHERS
              TR: AFI 32-2001; TO 00-25-172

A2.3.5.1      Purpose and description                                                                                       A        B        -

A2.3.5.2      Perform pre-use inspection                                                                                     b       -        -

A2.3.5.3      Position / Operate                          *                                                                  b       -        -
A2.3.6        Foreign Object Damage (FOD) prevention
                                                                                                                            A        B        -
              program




                                                                       24                                                         Attachment 2
                         AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                         2. Core Tasks       3. Certification For OJT                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                             To Indicate
                                                                                                                             Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                B        C          A         B         C         D        E         A       B        C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                              Level Level       Level
                                                         5 Level   7 Level     Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (2)
                                                                               Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A2.3.7        Dropped object prevention program                                                                                A        -        -
A2.3.8        HAZARDOUS MATERIALS AND WASTE
              HANDLING ACCORDING TO
              ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS
              TR: AFI 90-821; AFOSH STD 161-21

A2.3.8.1      Types/use                                                                                                        A        -        -

A2.3.8.2      Disposal                                                                                                         A        -        -

A2.3.8.3      Hazard communication training program                                                                             -       -        -

A2.3.8.4      Storage and labeling                                                                                             A        -        -

A.2.3.8.5     Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS)                                                                               A        -        -
A2.4          MAINTENANCE DIRECTIVES,
              REFERENCES AND INSTRUCTIONS
              TR: AFI 33-360; TO 00-5-1

A2.4.1        TO system                                                                                                        A        B        -
A2.4.2        Time Compliance Technical Orders
                                                                                                                               A        B        -
              (TCTO)
A2.4.3        AF manuals and instructions                                                                                      A        B        -

A2.4.4        Use technical orders                          *                                                                  2b       -        -

A2.4.4.1      Use electronic Technical Orders                                                                                   -       -        -

A2.4.5        Use of schematics/diagrams                              *                                                        A       A         -

A2.4.6        Technical order improvement reporting                                                                             -       B        -
A2.5          SUPERVISION
              TR: AFIS 21-101 AND 36-2406; AFTTP 3-3
A2.5.1        Plan and schedule work assignments and
                                                                                                                                -       -        -
              priorities
A2.5.2        ESTABLISH WORK METHODS AND
              CONTROLS

A2.5.2.1      Performance standards                                                                                             -       -        -
A2.5.2.2      Evaluate work performance of subordinate
                                                                                                                                -       -        -
              personnel
A2.5.2.3      Counsel personnel and resolve individual
                                                                                                                                -       -        -
              problems
A2.5.2.4      Initiate action to correct substandard
                                                                                                                                -       -        -
              performance by personnel
A2.6          TRAINING
              TR: AFIS 36-2201 AND 36-2232
A2.6.1        Evaluate personnel to determine need for
                                                                                                                                -       -        -
              training




                                                                          25                                                         Attachment 2
                        AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                           2. Core Tasks       3. Certification For OJT                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                               To Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information
                                                                                                                               Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                  B        C          A         B         C         D        E         A       B        C
                                                                                                                                3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level Level       Level
                                                           5 Level   7 Level     Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (2)
                                                                                 Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A2.6.2        PLAN AND SUPERVISE OJT

A2.6.2.1      Prepare job qualification standards                                                                                 -       -        -

A2.6.2.2      Conduct training                                                                                                    -       -        -

A2.6.2.3      Counsel trainees on their progress                                                                                  -       -        -

A2.6.3        Document training records                                 *                                                         -       -        -

A2.6.4        Management of training                                                                                              -      A         -
A2.7          MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT
              TR: AFIS 21-101, 21-103, 210118 AND 90-
              201; AFMAN 23-110

A2.7.1        Basic functions within maintenance                                                                                  -      A         -

A2.7.2        Maintenance group organizational structure                                                                          -       -        -

A2.7.3        Debrief functions                                                                                                   -       B        -
A2.7.4        Engine maintenance management
                                                                                                                                 A        -        -
              information systems
A2.7.5        Engine historical records                                                                                          A        -        -
A2.8          MAINTENANCE DATA
              DOCUMENTATION (MDD)
              TR: AFI 21-101; TO 00-20 SERIES;
              APPLICABLE AIRCRAFT -06 WORK
              UNIT CODE MANUALS; INTEGRATED
              MAINTENANCE DATA SYSTEM (IMDS)
              ON-LINE HELP SCREENS

A2.8.1        MDD fundamentals                                                                                                   A        -        -
A2.8.2        Minimum Essential Subsystems List
                                                                                                                                  -       -        -
              (MESL)
A2.8.3        AIRCRAFT AND SUPPORTING
              MAINTENANCE RECORDS

A2.8.3.1      Purpose                                                                                                            A        B        -

A2.8.3.2      AUTOMATED FORMS

A2.8.3.2.1    Purpose                                                                                                            A        -        -

A2.8.3.2.2    Use automated forms                             *                                                                  2b       -        -

A2.8.3.3      Document AFTO Form 781H                         *                                                                  2b       -        -

A2.8.3.4      Document AFTO Form 781A                         *                                                                  2b       -        -

A2.8.3.5      Document AFTO Form 781J                         *                                                                  2b       -        -




                                                                            26                                                         Attachment 2
                        AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                        2. Core Tasks       3. Certification For OJT                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                           To Indicate
                                                                                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References               B        C          A         B         C        D        E         A       B        C
                                                                                                                            3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                            Level Level       Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (2)
                                                                             Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A2.8.3.6      Document AFTO Form 781K                      *                                                                 2b       -        -

A2.8.3.7      Document other AFTO 781 series forms                                                                            -       -        -

A2.8.3.8      Document AFTO Form 244/245                                                                                      a       -        -

A2.8.3.9      Document AFTO Form 350                       *                                                                 1b       -        -

A2.8.3.10     AFTO Form 95                                                                                                    -       -        -
A2.8.3.11     Use AFTO Form 1492, Warning Tag
                                                           *                                                                 1b       -        -
              TR: AFOSH Std 91-501
A2.8.3.12     Document IPI                                                                                                    a       -        -

A2.8.4        MAINTENANCE INFORMATION
              SYSTEMS (MIS)

A2.8.4.1      Purpose                                                                                                         A       B        -

A2.8.4.2      JOB DATA DOCUMENTATION (JDD)

A2.8.4.2.1    Purpose                                                                                                        A        B        -

A2.8.4.2.2    Access JDD                                   *                                                                  -       -        -

A2.8.4.2.3    Create maintenance event                     *                                                                  -       -        -

A2.8.4.2.4    Defer maintenance event                      *                                                                  -       -        -

A2.8.4.2.5    Schedule maintenance event                   *                                                                  -       -        -

A2.8.4.2.6    Close maintenance event                      *                                                                  -       -        -
A2.9          MAINTENANCE MATERIALS AND
              TOOLS
              TR: AFI 21-101; AFOSH STD 91-SERIES;
              TOS 1-1A-8, 1-1A-14,, 1-1-691 AND TO 32
              SERIES AS APPLICABLE

A2.9.1        HARDWARE

A2.9.1.1      Purpose                                                                                                        A        B        -

A2.9.1.2      Remove and install common hardware                                                                             2b       -        -

A2.9.1.3      Remove and install hydraulic hardware                                                                          2b       -        -

A2.9.1.4      Remove and install engine hardware                                                                             2b       -        -

A2.9.2        ELECTRICAL CONNECTORS

A2.9.2.1      Purpose                                                                                                        A        B        -




                                                                        27                                                         Attachment 2
                          AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                    2. Core Tasks       3. Certification For OJT                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                       To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           B        C          A         B         C        D        E         A       B        C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                        Level Level       Level
                                                    5 Level   7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (2)
                                                                         Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A2.9.2.2       Disconnect and connect                                                                                    2b       -        -

A2.9.3         SECURING DEVICES

A2.9.3.1       Purpose                                                                                                   A        B        -

A2.9.3.2       Install/remove safety wire                                                                                2b       -        -

A2.9.3.3       Install/remove cotter pins                                                                                2b       -        -

A2.9.4         Lubricants                                                                                                A        -        -

A2.9.5         Sealants                                                                                                  A        -        -

A2.9.6         Adhesives                                                                                                 A        -        -

A2.9.7         Cleaning agents                                                                                           A        -        -

A2.9.8         TOOLS

A2.9.8.1       Tool control                                                                                               B       B        -

A2.9.8.2       HAND TOOLS

A2.9.8.2.1     Purpose                                                                                                   A        -        -

A2.9.8.2.2     Select and use                          *                                                                 2b       -        -

A2.9.8.2.3     Maintain                                                                                                  2b       -        -

A2.9.8.3       MEASURING TOOLS

A2.9.8.3.1     Purpose                                                                                                   A        -        -

A2.9.8.3.2     Select and use thickness gauges                                                                           2b       -        -

A2.9.8.3.3     Use digital propeller protractor *                                                                         -       B        -

A2.9.8.3.4     Use dial indicator                                                                                         b       -        -

A2.9.8.3.5     Use spring scales                                                                                          -       -        -

A2.9.8.3.6     Use depth gauges                                                                                           -       -        -

A2.9.8.3.7     Use tensiometers *                                                                                        1b       B        -

A2.9.8.3.8     Torque wrenches                                                                                            -       B        -

A2.9.8.3.8.1   Use torque wrenches                                                                                       2b       -        -




                                                                    28                                                         Attachment 2
                           AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                             2. Core Tasks       3. Certification For OJT                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                                To Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information
                                                                                                                                Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                    B        C          A         B         C        D        E         A       B        C
                                                                                                                                 3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                                 Level Level       Level
                                                             5 Level   7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (2)
                                                                                  Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A2.9.8.3.8.2   Perform run-in torque/breakaway torque                                                                              -       -        -

A2.9.8.3.9     Use micrometers                                                                                                    2b       -        -

A2.9.8.3.10    Use blade checking and filling unit*                                                                                b       -        -

A2.9.8.3.11    Use tire pressure gauges                                                                                           2b       -        -

A2.9.8.3.12    Use tire servicing kit                                                                                              b       -        -

A2.9.8.3.13    Use multimeter                                                                                                      -       -        -

A2.9.8.3.14    Use ruler                                                                                                           a       -        -
A2.10.         RESPONSIBILITIES FOR SUPPLY
               TR: AFI 21-101 AND 21-118; AFMAN 23-
               110; TOS 00-20-3 AND 00-35D-54

A2.10.1        Maintenance supply concept                                                                                         A        B        -
A2.10.2        Use special requisition, issue, and turn-in
                                                                                                                                   -      A         -
               slips
A2.10.3        Ordering parts                                                                                                     A        B        -
A2.10.4        Prepare repairable or serviceable parts for
                                                                                                                                   -      A         -
               turn-in
A2.10.5        Due In From Maintenance (DIFM) control                                                                             A        B        -

A2.10.6        Joint Deficiency Reporting System (JDRS)                                                                            -       B        -

A2.10.7        Complete equipment condition tags                                                                                  A        B        -
A2.11          AIRCRAFT GENERAL
               TR: AFIS 11-218, 21-103; TOS 1-1-691, 1-1B-
               50 AND APPLICABLE AIRCRAFT TOS
A2.11.1        Principles of weight and balance                                                                                    -      A         -

A2.11.2        Inventory aircraft -21 equipment                                                                                    -       B        -

A2.11.3        Corrosion control program                                                                                           -       -        -

A2.11.3.1      Aircraft cleaning                                                                                                  A        B        -

A2.11.3.2      Corrosion identification                                                                                           A        B        -

A2.11.3.3      Corrosion treatment                                                                                                A        B        -

A2.11.3.4      Evaluate corrosion                                                                                                  -       -        -

A2.11.3.5      Lubrication methods                                                                                                A        -        -




                                                                             29                                                         Attachment 2
                        AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                        2. Core Tasks       3. Certification For OJT                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                           To Indicate
                                                                                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References               B        C          A         B         C        D        E         A       B        C
                                                                                                                            3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                            Level Level       Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (2)
                                                                             Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A2.11.4       GROUND HANDLING

A2.11.4.1     Principles of ground handling                                                                                  A        -        -

A2.11.4.2     Marshall aircraft                            *                                                                  b       -        -

A2.11.4.3     Helicopter/tiltrotor markings                                                                                  A        B        -
A2.11.4.4     Special maintenance required due to
                                                                                                                              -      A         -
              adverse weather
A2.11.4.5     Special maintenance required during
              shipboard operations                                                                                            -      A         -
              TR: JP 3-04.1
A2.11.5       Crash Damaged, Disabled Aircraft
                                                                                                                             A       A         -
              Recovery (CDDAR)
A2.11.6       Design/function/proper operation of
                                                                                                                             A        -        -
              guarded electrical switches
A2.12         FLIGHT CONTROLS
              TR: APPLICABLE AIRCRAFT TOS

A2.12.1       Principles of flight                                                                                           A        -        -

A2.12.2       Flight Controls Fundamentals                                                                                   A        -        -
A2.13         HYDRAULICS
              TR: APPLICABLE AIRCRAFT TOS

A2.13.1       System fundamentals                                                                                            A        -        -

A2.14         ENGINES

A2.14.1       Engine and systems fundamentals                                                                                 -       -        -

A2.15         FUEL SYSTEM
              TR: APPLICABLE AIRCRAFT TOS

A2.15.1       System fundamentals                                                                                            A        -        -
A2.16         ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
              TR: APPLICABLE AIRCRAFT TOS

A2.16.1       AC electrical system fundamentals                                                                              A        -        -

A2.16.2       DC electrical system fundamentals                                                                              A        -        -
A2.17         AEROSPACE GROUND EQUIPMENT
              (AGE)
              TR: AFOSH STD 91-100; TOS 35A2 SERIES
              AND 35A4 SERIES AS APPLICABLE

A2.17.1       MOBILE MAINTENANCE PLATFORMS

A2.17.1.1     Purpose and description                                                                                        A       A         -

A2.17.1.2     Perform pre-use inspection and operate*      *                                                                 2b       -        -




                                                                        30                                                         Attachment 2
                       AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                          2. Core Tasks       3. Certification For OJT                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                             To Indicate
                                                                                                                             Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                 B        C          A         B         C        D        E         A       B        C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                              Level Level       Level
                                                          5 Level   7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (2)
                                                                               Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A2.17.2       AIRCRAFT JACKS

A2.17.2.1     Purpose and description                                                                                          A       A         -

A2.17.2.2     Perform pre-use inspection and operate*        *                                                                 2b       -        -

A2.17.3       Nitrogen servicing equipment                                                                                      -       -        -
A2.17.3.1     SELF-GENERATING NITROGEN
              SERVICING EQUIPMENT
              TR: TO 35D29-7-6-1

A2.17.3.1.1   Purpose and description                                                                                          A       A         -

A2.17.3.1.2   Perform pre-use inspection and operate*        *                                                                 2b       -        -

A2.17.3.2.    NITROGEN CART (BOTTLES)

A2.17.3.2.1   Purpose and description                                                                                          A       A         -

A2.17.3.2.2   Perform pre-use inspection and operate         *                                                                  -       -        -
A2.17.4       GROUND HEATERS AND BLOWERS
              TR: TO 35E7

A2.17.4.1     Purpose and description of ground heaters                                                                        A       A         -

A2.17.4.2     Perform pre-use inspection and operate         *                                                                  -       -        -
A2.17.5       PORTABLE LIGHTING EQUIPMENT
              TR: TO 35F5- SERIES

A2.17.5.1     Purpose and description                                                                                          A       A         -

A2.17.5.2     Perform pre-use inspection and operate         *                                                                  -       -        -
A2.17.6       HYDRAULIC TEST STAND
              TR: TO 39E SERIES

A2.17.6.1     Purpose and description                                                                                          A       A         -

A2.17.6.2     Perform pre-use inspection and operate                                                                            -       -        -
A2.17.7       GROUND GENERATOR SETS/GAS
              TURBINE COMPRESSORS
A2.17.7.1     A/M32A-60 GAS TURBINE GENERATOR
              SET/GAS TURBINE COMPRESSOR
              TR: TO 35D12- SERIES

A2.17.7.1.1   Purpose and description                                                                                          A        -        -

A2.17.7.1.2   Perform pre-use inspection and operate                                                                            -       -        -
A2.17.7.2.    DIESEL-DRIVEN GENERATOR SETS TR: *
              TO 35C2- SERIES




                                                                          31                                                         Attachment 2
                         AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                        2. Core Tasks       3. Certification For OJT                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                           To Indicate
                                                                                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References               B        C          A         B         C        D        E         A       B        C
                                                                                                                            3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                            Level Level       Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (2)
                                                                             Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A2.17.7.2.1   Purpose and description                                                                                        A       A         -

A2.17.7.2.2   Perform pre-use inspection and operate*      *                                                                 2b       -        -

A2.17.8       AIRCRAFT TOW BARS

A2.17.8.1     Purpose and description                                                                                        A       A         -

A2.17.8.2     Perform pre-use inspection and operate       *                                                                  b       -        -
A2.17.9       HOISTING EQUIPMENT
              TR: 35B5- SERIES AND 35D- SERIES

A2.17.9.1     Purpose and description                                                                                         -      A         -

A2.17.9.2     Perform pre-use inspection and operate                                                                          -       -        -
A2.17.10      UNIVERSAL TRAILER (3000)
              TR: TOS 35B5- SERIES AND 35D- SERIES

A2.17.10.1    Purpose and description                                                                                         -      A         -

A2.17.10.2    Perform pre-use inspection and operate                                                                          -       -        -

A2.17.10.3    Maintain                                                                                                        -       -        -
A2.17.11      HYDRAULIC SERVICING CARTS
              TR: TO 35D5- SERIES

A2.17.11.1    Purpose and description                                                                                        A       A         -

A2.17.11.2    Perform pre-use inspection and operate       *                                                                  -       -        -

A2.17.12      ENGINE WASH CART

A2.17.12.1    Purpose and description                                                                                         -      A         -

A2.17.12.2    Perform pre-use inspection and operate       *                                                                  -       -        -
A2.17.13      LOW PRESSURE AIR COMPRESSOR
              TR: TO 34Y1 SERIES

A2.17.13.1    Purpose and description                                                                                         -      A         -

A2.17.13.2    Perform pre-use inspection and operate                                                                          -       -        -
A2.17.14      HIGH PRESSURE AIR COMPRESSOR
              TR: TO 34Y1 SERIES

A2.17.14.1    Purpose and description                                                                                         -      A         -

A2.17.14.2    Perform pre-use inspection and operate                                                                          -       -        -
A2.17.15      MC7 AIR COMPRESSOR
              TR: TO 34Y1 SERIES




                                                                        32                                                         Attachment 2
                       AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                       2. Core Tasks       3. Certification For OJT                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                          To Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information
                                                                                                                          Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              B        C          A         B         C        D        E         A       B        C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                           Level Level       Level
                                                       5 Level   7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (2)
                                                                            Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A2.17.15.1    Purpose and description                                                                                        -       -        -

A2.17.15.2    Perform pre-use inspection and operate                                                                         -       -        -


*NOT APPLICABLE FOR COURSE JCABP2A532D021B (CV-22 TRAINING)




                                                                       33                                                         Attachment 2
This Page Intentionally Left Blank




               34                    Attachment 2
                                       H-60 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                     2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                       To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           B            C        A      B         C        D        E         A        B        C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                         Level    Level   Level
                                                      5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)      (2)      (2)
                                                                           Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC
NOTE 1: Users are responsible for annotating training references pending STS revision.
NOTE 2: All task/knowledge taught in the initial skills course trained in the resident wartime courses.
NOTE 3: Items marked with an (*/R) are optional for ANG/AFRC when training is not available, but must be accomplished when
        training opportunity becomes available (execpt for air reserve technicians and fulltime technicians for upgrade).
A3.1.          AIRCRAFT GENERAL

A3.1.1.        AIRCRAFT INSPECTIONS
               TR: TO 00-20-1, 1H-60(H)G-6 AND 1H-
               60(H)G-2 SERIES TOS

A3.1.1.1       Periodic inspection concept                                                                                 -       B        -

A3.1.1.2       600 hour periodic                                                                                          A        -        -

A3.1.1.3       Supplemental inspections                                                                                   A        -        -

A3.1.1.4       PERFORM INSPECTIONS

A3.1.1.4.1     50 HOUR

A3.1.1.4.1.1   Section 1-cockpit                         *                                                                1b       -        -

A3.1.1.4.1.2   Section 2-cabin                           *                                                                1b       -        -

A3.1.1.4.1.3   Section 3-transition                      *                                                                1b       -        -

A3.1.1.4.1.4   Section 4-tail cone                       *                                                                1b       -        -

A3.1.1.4.1.5   Section 5-tail pylon                      *                                                                1b       -        -

A3.1.1.4.1.6   Section 6-main rotor pylon                *                                                                1b       -        -

A3.1.1.5.2     600 HOUR PERIODIC

A3.1.1.5.2.1   Section 1-cockpit                                                                                           -       -        -

A3.1.1.5.2.2   Section 2-cabin                                                                                             -       -        -

A3.1.1.5.2.3   Section 3-transition                                                                                        -       -        -

A3.1.1.5.2.4   Section 4-tail cone                                                                                         -       -        -

A3.1.1.5.2.5   Section 5-tail pylon                                                                                        -       -        -

A3.1.1.5.2.6   Section 6-main rotor pylon                                                                                  -       -        -

A3.1.1.5.3     Acceptance                                                                                                  -       -        -

A3.1.1.5.4     Calendar                                                                                                    -       -        -

A3.1.1.5.5     Special                                                                                                     -       -        -



                                                                         35                                                      Attachment 3
                                      H-60 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                        2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                          To Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information
                                                                                                                          Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References               B            C        A      B         C        D        E         A        B        C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                            Level    Level   Level
                                                         5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)      (2)      (2)
                                                                              Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A3.1.1.5.6    Hourly                                                                                                          -       -        -

A3.1.1.5.7    Conditional                                                                                                     -       -        -

A3.1.1.5.8    150 hour                                                                                                        -       -        -

A3.1.1.5.9    300 hour                                                                                                        -       -        -

A3.1.1.5.10   Preflight                                     *                                                                 -       -        -

A3.1.1.5.11   Thruflight                                    *                                                                 -       -        -
A3.1.2        USE COMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT
              TR: 1H-60(H)G-2 SERIES TOS

A3.1.2.1      Interphone                                    *                                                                 -       -        -

A3.1.2.2      UHF                                                                                                             -       -        -

A3.1.2.3      VHF                                                                                                             -       -        -
A3.1.3        PERFORM GROUND HANDLING
              TR: AFI11-218, AFOSH STD 91 SERIES,
              AND 1H-60(H)G-2 SERIES TOS

A3.1.3.1      Launch/Recover helicopter                     *                                                                 -       -        -

A3.1.3.2.     TOW HELICOPTER

A3.1.3.2.1    Perform as tow team member                    *                                                                2b       -        -

A3.1.3.2.2    Perform as tow brake operator                 *                                                                a        -        -

A3.1.3.2.3    Perform as tow vehicle operator                                                                                 -       -        -

A3.1.3.2.4    Perform as tow team supervisor                            *                                                     -       -        -

A3.1.3.3      Moor/Tie down helicopter                                                                                       a        B        -

A3.1.3.4      JACK HELICOPTER

A3.1.3.4.1    Perform as jacking team member                *                                                                2b       -        -
A3.1.3.4.2    Perform as jacking supervisor/level
                                                                        *                                                     -       -        -
              helicopter
A3.1.3.4.3    Air Shipment of helicopters                                                                                     -       B        -
A3.1.3.5      Load helicopter on transport aircraft
              TR: AFIs 24-201, 24-202; AFPD24-
              22; TO 00-85 series TOs 1H-1-39,                                                                                -       -        -
              1C-5A-9-2, 1C-17A-9, and 1H-
              60(H)G-2 series TOs
A3.1.3.6      Disassemble helicopter for air shipment
                                                                                                                             2b       -        -
              TR: AFIs 24-201, 24-202; AFPD 24-



                                                                            36                                                      Attachment 3
                                      H-60 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                         2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                           To Indicate
                                                                                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                B            C        A      B         C        D        E         A        B        C
                                                                                                                            3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                             Level    Level   Level
                                                          5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)      (2)      (2)
                                                                               Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC
              22, TO 00-85 series, 1H-1-39, 1C-5A-
              9-2, 1C-17A-9, and1H-60(H)G-2
              series
A3.1.3.7      Reassemble helicopter after air shipment
              TR: AFIs 24-201, 24-202; AFPD 24-
                                                                                                                              2b       -        -
              22, TO 00-85 series, 1H-1-39, 1C-5A-9-
              2, 1C-17A-9, and 1H-60(H)G-2 series
A3.1.3.8      Special maintenance required due to
              environment                                                                                                     A        B        -
              TR: 1H-60(H)G-2 series TOs
A3.1.3.9      Aircraft weight and balance
                                                                                                                               -       A        -
              TR: TOs 1-1B-50 and 1H60-(H)G-5
A3.1.3.10     Air transport kit
                                                                                                                               -       A        -
              TR: 1H-1-39
A3.2          AIRFRAME SYSTEMS
              TR: TO 1H-60(H)G-2 SERIES, 1-1A-8, 1-1A-
              14, AND 1-1-689-3

A3.2.1        Airframe construction fundamentals                                                                              A        B        -

A3.2.2        REMOVE AND INSTALL

A3.2.2.1      Airframe components such as cowlings,
                                                             *                                                                2b       -        -
              panels, and doors
A3.2.2.2      Antennas
                                                                                                                               -       -        -
              TR: TO 1-1-689-3
A3.2.2.3      Cockpit seats and components                                                                                     -       -        -

A3.2.2.4      Windshield/Windows                                                                                               -       -        -

A3.2.2.5      Tail cone/tail pylon                                                                                             -       -        -
A3.2.2.6      Improved Ballistic Armament Suppression
                                                                                                                               -       -        -
              System (IBASS)
A3.2.2.7      Vibration absorbers and components                                                                              b        -        -

A3.2.2.8      Cockpit/Cabin floors                                                                                             -       -        -

A3.2.2.9      Flight engineer’s and gunner’s consoles                                                                          -       -        -

A3.2.2.10     Fold pylon                                                                                                      b        -        -

A3.2.2.11     Door components                                                                                                  -       -        -

A3.2.2.12     Stabilator components                                                                                            -       -        -
A3.3          LANDING GEAR SYSTEMS
              TR: 1H-60(H)G-2 SERIES TOS

A3.3.1        Landing gear system fundamentals                                                                                A        B        -

A3.3.2        PERFORM OPERATIONAL CHECK




                                                                             37                                                      Attachment 3
                                       H-60 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                          2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                            To Indicate
                                                                                                                            Training/Information
                                                                                                                            Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                 B            C        A      B         C        D        E         A        B        C
                                                                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                              Level    Level   Level
                                                           5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)      (2)      (2)
                                                                                Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A3.3.2.1      Tail lock actuator                                                                                               b        -        -

A3.3.2.2      Brakes                                                                                                           a        -        -

A3.3.3        SERVICE/BLEED

A3.3.3.1      Shock strut                                     *                                                                2b       -        -
A3.3.3.2      Tires
                                                              *                                                                2b       -        -
              TR: TO 4T-1-3
A3.3.3.3      Brakes                                                                                                           2b       -        -

A3.3.4        Adjust landing gear components                                                                                    -       -        -

A3.3.5        REMOVE AND INSTALL

A3.3.5.1      Main landing gear wheel and tire assembly       *                                                                2b       -        -

A3.3.5.2      Brake assembly                                                                                                   2b       -        -

A3.3.5.3      Brake system components                                                                                           -       -        -

A3.3.5.4      Main landing gear skis and components                                                                             -       -        -

A3.3.5.5      Tail landing gear skis and components                                                                             -       -        -

A3.3.5.6      LANDING GEAR COMPONENTS

A3.3.5.6.1    Shock strut                                                                                                      b        -        -

A3.3.5.6.2    Shock strut components                                                                                            -       -        -

A3.3.5.6.3    Tail landing gear yoke                          *                                                                b        -        -

A3.3.5.6.4    Tail landing gear yoke components                                                                                 -       -        -

A3.3.5.6.5    Tail lock actuator mechanism/pin                *                                                                 -       -        -

A3.3.5.6.6    Tail landing gear fork                          *                                                                b        -        -

A3.3.5.6.7    Drag beam and components                                                                                         b        -        -

A3.3.5.6.8    Tail landing gear wheel and tire assembly       *                                                                 -       -        -

A3.3.6        TROUBLESHOOT

A3.3.6.1      Landing gear system                                         *                                                    b        -        -

A3.3.6.2      Brake system                                                *                                                    b        -        -




                                                                              38                                                      Attachment 3
                                        H-60 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                          2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                            To Indicate
                                                                                                                            Training/Information
                                                                                                                            Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                 B            C        A      B         C        D        E         A        B        C
                                                                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                              Level    Level   Level
                                                           5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)      (2)      (2)
                                                                                Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC
A3.4          UTILITY SYSTEM
              TR: 1H-60(H)G-2 SERIES TOS

A3.4.1.       Utility systems fundamentals                                                                                     A        B        -

A3.4.2.       PERFORM OPERATIONAL CHECK

A3.4.2.1      Hoist                                           *                                                                b        -        -

A3.4.2.2      Cargo hook                                                                                                       a        -        -

A3.4.2.3      Heating and ventilating                                                                                          a        -        -

A3.4.2.4      Fire detection                                  *                                                                a        -        -

A3.4.2.5      Windshield wiper                                *                                                                a        -        -

A3.4.2.6      Windshield anti-ice                             *                                                                a        -        -

A3.4.3        REMOVE AND INSTALL

A3.4.3.1      Cargo hook and components                                                                                         -       -        -

A3.4.3.2      Cabin furnishings                                                                                                 -       -        -

A3.4.3.3      Martin Baker seats & components                                                                                   -       -        -

A3.4.3.4      Troop seats                                                                                                       -       -        -

A3.4.3.5      Rappelling rings                                                                                                  -       -        -

A3.4.3.6      Mobile aircrew webbing restraint                                                                                  -       -        -

A3.4.3.7      Rescue hoist and support assembly               *                                                                 -       -        -

A3.4.3.8      FRIES Bar and components                        *                                                                 -       -        -

A3.4.3.9      Heating and ventilating system components                                                                        2b       -        -

A3.4.3.10     Fire detection system components                                                                                 b        -        -

A3.4.3.11     Windshield anti-ice system components                                                                            a        -        -

A3.4.3.12.    Windshield wiper system components                                                                               2b       -        -

A3.4.3.13     Crew Overhead Restraint System (CORS)                                                                             -       -        -

A3.4.3.14     HOIST COMPONENTS

A3.4.3.14.1   Cable                                           *                                                                b        -        -




                                                                              39                                                      Attachment 3
                                        H-60 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                            2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                              To Indicate
                                                                                                                              Training/Information
                                                                                                                              Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                   B            C        A      B         C        D        E         A        B        C
                                                                                                                               3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level    Level   Level
                                                             5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)      (2)      (2)
                                                                                  Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A3.4.3.14.2   Hook                                              *                                                                b        -        -

A3.4.3.14.3   Cable cutter                                                                                                        -       -        -

A3.4.3.14.4   Hydraulic                                                                                                           -       -        -

A3.4.3.14.5   Electric                                                                                                            -       -        -

A3.4.3.14.6   Mechanical                                                                                                          -       -        -

A3.4.4        ADJUST

A3.4.4.1      Windshield wiper arm                                                                                               2b       -        -

A3.4.4.2      Rescue hoist components                                                                                             -       -        -

A3.4.5        SERVICE/LUBRICATE/INSPECT

A3.4.5.1      Hoist                                             *                                                                b        -        -

A3.4.5.2      Cargo hook                                                                                                         a        -        -

A3.4.6        TROUBLESHOOT

A3.4.6.1      Hoist                                                                                                               -       -        -

A3.4.6.2      Cargo hook                                                                                                          -       -        -

A3.4.6.3      Heating and ventilating                                                                                             -       -        -

A3.4.6.4      Fire detection                                                                                                      -       -        -

A3.4.6.5      Windshield wiper                                                                                                    -       -        -

A3.4.6.6      Windshield anti-ice                                                                                                 -       -        -
A3.5          FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEMS
              TR: 1H-60(H)G-2 SERIES TOS

A3.5.1        Rotor flight control system fundamentals                                                                           A        B        -
A3.5.2        Perform operational check of flight control
                                                                *                                                                 -       -        -
              systems
A3.5.3        Perform operational check of the AFCS
                                                                                                                                  -       -        -
              system
A3.5.4        REMOVE AND INSTALL

A3.5.4.1      Control rods                                      *                                                                2b       -        -

A3.5.4.2      Idlers and bellcranks                                                                                               -       -        -




                                                                                40                                                      Attachment 3
                                           H-60 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                                 To Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information
                                                                                                                                 Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                      B            C        A      B         C        D        E         A        B        C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                                   Level    Level   Level
                                                                5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)      (2)      (2)
                                                                                     Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A3.5.4.3      Pulleys                                                                                                               b        -        -

A3.5.4.4      Control sticks                                                                                                        a        -        -

A3.5.4.5      Spring cylinder                                                                                                       a        -        -

A3.5.4.6      Cables                                                           *                                                    b        -        -

A3.5.4.7      Quadrants                                                                                                             a        -        -

A3.5.4.8      Balance springs                                                                                                        -       -        -

A3.5.4.9      Stabilator                                           *                                                                2b       -        -

A3.5.4.10     Stabilator bearings/bushings                                                                                           -       -        -

A3.5.4.11     Stabilator actuator                                                                                                   b        -        -

A3.5.4.12     Electric trim servos                                                                                                   -       -        -

A3.5.4.13     Pitch trim assembly                                                                                                    -       -        -

A3.5.4.14     Bridge assemblies                                                                                                      -       -        -

A3.5.4.15     Yaw pedal adjuster and support bearings                                                                                -       -        -
A3.5.4.16     Collective friction collet blocks and friction
                                                                                                                                     -       -        -
              lock
A3.5.5      RIG

A3.5.5.1      Fundamentals of flight control rigging                                                                                 -       B        -

A3.5.5.2      Main rotor                                                   */R                                                      a        -        -

A3.5.5.3      Tail rotor                                                   */R                                                      a        -        -

A3.5.6        PERFORM

A3.5.6.1      Main rotor rig check                                             *                                                    1b       -        -

A3.5.6.2      Tail rotor rig check                                             *                                                    1b       -        -

A3.5.7        Lubricate flight controls                                                                                              -       -        -

A3.5.8        TROUBLESHOOT

A3.5.8.1      Main rotor flight controls                                       *                                                     -       -        -

A3.5.8.2      Tail rotor flight controls                                       *                                                     -       -        -




                                                                                   41                                                      Attachment 3
                                       H-60 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                    2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                      To Indicate
                                                                                                                      Training/Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           B            C        A      B         C        D        E         A        B        C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                        Level    Level   Level
                                                     5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)      (2)      (2)
                                                                          Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC
A3.5.9        Test/Inspect flight control
              hardware/bearings                                                                                           -       -        -
              TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-5
A3.6.         HYDRAULIC SYSTEMS
              TR: 1H-60(H)G-2 SERIES TOS

A3.6.1        Hydraulic system fundamentals                                                                              A        B        -

A3.6.2        PERFORM OPERATIONAL CHECKS

A3.6.2.1      #1 hydraulic system                       *                                                                 -       -        -

A3.6.2.2      #2 hydraulic system                       *                                                                 -       -        -

A3.6.2.3      Rotor brake                                                                                                b        -        -

A3.6.2.4      Backup hydraulic system                   *                                                                 -       -        -

A3.6.2.5      Pitch trim assembly                                                                                         -       -        -
A3.6.2.6      Stability Augmentation System (SAS)
                                                                                                                          -       -        -
              actuators
A3.6.3        REMOVE AND INSTALL

A3.6.3.1      Quick disconnects and self sealing
                                                        *                                                                 -       -        -
              couplings
A3.6.3.2      Primary servos                            *                                                                b        -        -

A3.6.3.3      Boost servos                              *                                                                2b       -        -
A3.6.3.4      Stability Augmentation System (SAS)
                                                                                                                          -       -        -
              actuators
A3.6.3.5      Manifolds                                                                                                  a        -        -

A3.6.3.6      Pump module                               *                                                                2b       -        -

A3.6.3.7      Pilot assist module                       *                                                                2b       -        -

A3.6.3.8      Transfer module                           *                                                                a        -        -

A3.6.3.9      Utility module                                                                                             a        -        -

A3.6.3.10     Filters                                   *                                                                b        -        -

A3.6.3.11     Rotor brake system components                                                                              b        -        -

A3.6.3.12     Tail rotor servo                                      *                                                    a        -        -

A3.6.3.13     Hydraulic tubing/hoses                                                                                      -       -        -

A3.6.3.14     Pressure switches                                                                                           -       -        -



                                                                        42                                                      Attachment 3
                                       H-60 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                  To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information
                                                                                                                  Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       B            C        A      B         C        D        E         A        B        C
                                                                                                                   3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                    Level    Level   Level
                                                 5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)      (2)      (2)
                                                                      Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A3.6.3.15     APU accumulator                                                                                        b        -        -

A3.6.3.16     Priority valve                                                                                          -       -        -

A3.6.4        SERVICE

A3.6.4.1      Reservoirs                            *                                                                a        -        -

A3.6.4.2      APU accumulator                       *                                                                2b       -        -

A3.6.4.3      Rotor brake                                                                                             -       -        -

A3.6.5        TROUBLESHOOT

A3.6.5.1      #1 Hydraulic system                               *                                                     -       -        -

A3.6.5.2      #2 Hydraulic system                               *                                                     -       -        -

A3.6.5.3      Rotor brake                                                                                             -       -        -

A3.6.5.4      Backup hydraulic system                           *                                                     -       -        -

A3.7          POWER PLANT
              TR: 2J-T-700 SERIES TOS

A3.7.1        Turbo shaft engine fundamentals                                                                        A        B        -

A3.7.1.1      Engine Sections                                                                                         -       -        -

A3.7.2        POWER PLANT SYSTEMS

A3.7.2.1      Ignition                                                                                               A        -        -

A3.7.2.2      Fuel                                                                                                   A        -        -

A3.7.2.3      Oil                                                                                                    A        -        -

A3.7.2.4      Inlet particle separator system                                                                        A        -        -

A3.7.2.5      IGV actuating system                                                                                   A        -        -

A3.7.2.6      Anti-icing                                                                                             A        -        -

A3.7.3        REMOVE AND INSTALL

A3.7.3.1      Oil pressure switch                                                                                    a        -        -

A3.7.3.2      Ignition unit                                                                                          a        -        -

A3.7.3.3      Igniter plug                                                                                           2b       -        -




                                                                    43                                                      Attachment 3
                                         H-60 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                      2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                        To Indicate
                                                                                                                        Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References             B            C        A      B         C        D        E         A        B        C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                          Level    Level   Level
                                                       5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)      (2)      (2)
                                                                            Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC
A3.7.3.4      Exhaust module Hover Infrared
                                                                                                                           a        -        -
              Suppression System (HIRSS) components
A3.7.3.5      Chip detector                               *                                                                2b       -        -

A3.7.3.6      Inlet particle separator                                                                                     2b       -        -

A3.7.3.7      Engine                                                  *                                                    2b       -        -

A3.7.3.8      Engine inlet                                *                                                                2b       -        -

A3.7.3.9      Inlet anti-ice valve                                                                                         a        -        -

A3.7.3.10     Anti-ice start bleed valve                              *                                                    a        -        -

A3.7.3.11     Filters and screens                                                                                          2b       -        -

A3.7.3.12     Engine starter                                                                                               b        -        -

A3.7.3.13     Digital electronic control                                                                                   b        -        -

A3.7.3.14     Hydro mechanical unit                                                                                        2b       -        -

A3.7.3.15     Rotary control inputs                               */R                                                       -       -        -

A3.7.3.16     Overspeed and drain valve                                                                                     -       -        -

A3.7.3.17     Starter control valves                                                                                        -       -        -

A3.7.3.18     Thermocouple harness                                                                                          -       -        -

A3.7.3.19     Engine electrical harnesses                                                                                   -       -        -

A3.7.3.20     Power available spindle cable                                                                                 -       -        -

A3.7.3.21     Load demand spindle cable                                                                                     -       -        -

A3.7.4        Service engine oil system                   *                                                                b        -        -

A3.7.5        Troubleshoot engine system                              *                                                     -       -        -

A3.7.6        Clean engine compressor                     *                                                                 -       -        -

A3.7.7        Clean engine hot section                                                                                      -       -        -

A3.7.8        Rig engine controls                                 */R                                                       -       -        -

A3.7.9        Perform operational checks                                                                                    -       -        -

A3.7.10       Operate engine                                                                                                -       -        -




                                                                          44                                                      Attachment 3
                                        H-60 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                     2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                       To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            B            C        A      B         C        D        E         A        B        C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                         Level    Level   Level
                                                      5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)      (2)      (2)
                                                                           Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A3.8          TRANSMISSION AND DRIVE SYSTEMS
              TR: 1H-60(H)G-2 SERIES TOS

A3.8.1        Transmission system fundamentals                                                                            A        B        -

A3.8.2        Transmission oil system fundamentals                                                                        A        B        -

A3.8.3        Adjust transmission oil system                                                                              a        -        -

A3.8.4        Align tail drive shafts                                                                                      -       -        -

A3.8.5        Service transmission system                *                                                                a        -        -

A3.8.6        Service viscous dampers                                                                                     a        -        -

A3.8.7        REMOVE AND INSTALL

A3.8.7.1      Accessory module                                   */R                                                      b        -        -

A3.8.7.2      Main module                                                                                                 a        -        -

A3.8.7.3      Intermediate gearbox                                                                                        b        -        -

A3.8.7.4      Tail gearbox                                       */R                                                      b        -        -

A3.8.7.5      Oil cooler and blower                                                                                       b        -        -

A3.8.7.6      Engine output drive shaft                              *                                                     -       -        -

A3.8.7.7      Tail drive shaft                           *                                                                2b       -        -

A3.8.7.8      Viscous damper bearing assembly                                                                             a        -        -

A3.8.7.9      Chip detectors                             *                                                                2b       -        -

A3.8.7.10     Main gearbox pump                                                                                            -       -        -

A3.8.7.11     Main gearbox oil filter and screens        *                                                                2b       -        -

A3.8.7.12     Input module                                       */R                                                      1b       -        -

A3.8.7.13     Transmission seals                                                                                           -       -        -

A3.8.7.14     Gust lock                                                                                                    -       -        -

A3.8.7.15     IGB/TGB sight gauges                                                                                         -       -        -

A3.8.8        Troubleshoot transmission system                       *                                                    b        -        -




                                                                         45                                                      Attachment 3
                                      H-60 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                     2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                       To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            B            C        A      B         C        D        E         A        B        C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                         Level    Level   Level
                                                      5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)      (2)      (2)
                                                                           Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A3.9          ROTOR SYSTEM
              TR: 1H-60(H)G-2 SERIES TOS

A3.9.1        MAIN ROTOR

A3.9.1.1      Rotor system fundamentals                                                                                   A        B        -
A3.9.1.2      Blade Inspection Method (BIM) system
                                                                                                                          A        B        -
              fundamentals
A3.9.1.3      Blade deicing fundamentals                                                                                  A        B        -

A3.9.2        REMOVE AND INSTALL

A3.9.2.1      Rotor head                                         */R                                                      2b       -        -

A3.9.2.2      Spindle                                            */R                                                      b        -        -

A3.9.2.3      Dampers                                    *                                                                2b       -        -

A3.9.2.4      Damper indicator                                                                                             -       -        -

A3.9.2.5      Damper bearings                                                                                              -       -        -

A3.9.2.6      Pitch control rods                         *                                                                2b       -        -

A3.9.2.7      Pitch control rod end/bearings                                                                               -       -        -

A3.9.2.8      Rotor blades                               *                                                                2b       -        -

A3.9.2.9      Rotor blade tip caps                       *                                                                 -       -        -

A3.9.2.10     Swashplate assembly                                */R                                                      2b       -        -

A3.9.2.11     Swashplate bearings                                                                                          -       -        -

A3.9.2.12     Shaft extension                                                                                              -       -        -

A3.9.2.13     Bifilar/Weights                            *                                                                 -       -        -

A3.9.2.14     Elastomeric bearing                                */R                                                       -       -        -

A3.9.2.15     BIM Indicator                                                                                               b        -        -

A3.9.2.16     Blade de-ice components                   */R                                                               2b       -        -

A3.9.2.17     Droop/Flap stop                            *                                                                2b       -        -

A3.9.2.18     Lead stop                                                                                                    -       -        -

A3.9.2.19     Pitch horn                                                                                                   -       -        -



                                                                         46                                                      Attachment 3
                                      H-60 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                   2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                     To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information
                                                                                                                     Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          B            C        A      B         C        D        E         A        B        C
                                                                                                                      3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                       Level    Level   Level
                                                    5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)      (2)      (2)
                                                                         Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A3.9.2.20     Bifilar bushings                                                                                           -       -        -

A3.9.2.21     Rotating scissors                                                                                          -       -        -

A3.9.3        Perform pretrack adjustment              *                                                                b        -        -

A3.9.4        Perform autorotation adjustment          *                                                                b        -        -

A3.9.5        SERVICE

A3.9.5.1      Damper system                            *                                                                b        -        -

A3.9.5.2      Blades                                   *                                                                2b       -        -

A3.9.6        Lubricate system components                                                                               a        -        -

A3.9.7        Troubleshoot main rotor system                       *                                                     -       -        -

A3.9.8        TAIL ROTOR

A3.9.8.1      Tail rotor system fundamentals                                                                            A        B        -

A3.9.8.2      Tail rotor de-ice fundamentals                                                                            A        B        -

A3.9.9        REMOVE AND INSTALL

A3.9.9.1      Paddles                                  *                                                                2b       -        -

A3.9.9.2      Paddle dust boots                        *                                                                 -       -        -

A3.9.9.3      Paddle pivot bearings                                                                                      -       -        -

A3.9.9.4      Inner retention plate                                *                                                    2b       -        -

A3.9.9.5      Tail rotor de-ice components                                                                              b        -        -

A3.9.9.6      Tail rotor pitch link                    *                                                                2b       -        -

A3.9.9.7      Troubleshoot tail rotor system                       *                                                     -       -        -

A3.10         FUEL SYSTEM
              TR: 1H-60(H)G-2 SERIES TOS, TO 00-
              25-172, AND AFOSH STD 91 SERIES

A3.10.1       Fuel system fundamentals                                                                                  A        B        -

A3.10.2.      PERFORM OPERATIONAL CHECK

A3.10.2.1     Main                                                                                                       -       -        -




                                                                       47                                                      Attachment 3
                                           H-60 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                              2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                                To Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information
                                                                                                                                Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                     B            C        A      B         C        D        E         A        B        C
                                                                                                                                 3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level    Level   Level
                                                               5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)      (2)      (2)
                                                                                    Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A3.10.2.2      Auxiliary                                          *                                                                 -       -        -

A3.10.2.3      In-flight                                          *                                                                2b       -        -

A3.10.3        Prime engines                                                  *                                                     -       -        -

A3.10.4        Refuel helicopter                                                                                                    -       -        -

A3.10.4.1     Refueling fundamentals                                                                                                -       B        -

A3.10.4.1.1   PRESSURE PROCEDURE

A3.10.4.1.2    Perform as refuel team member                      *                                                                a        -        -

A3.10.4.1.3    Perform as refuel team supervisor                              *                                                     -       -        -

A3.10.4.2      GRAVITY PROCEDURE

A3.10.4.2.1    Perform as refuel team member                                                                                       a        -        -

A3.10.4.2.2    Perform as refuel team supervisor                                                                                    -       -        -

A3.10.5        DEFUEL HELICOPTER

A3.10.5.1      Defuel fundamentals                                                                                                  -       B        -

A3.10.5.1.1    PRESSURE PROCEDURE

A3.10.5.1.2    Perform as defuel team member                      *                                                                a        -        -

A3.10.5.1.3    Perform as defuel team supervisor                              *                                                     -       -        -

A3.10.5.2      GRAVITY PROCEDURE

A3.10.5.2.1    Perform as defuel team member                                                                                        -       -        -

A3.10.5.2.2    Perform as defuel team supervisor                                                                                    -       -        -
A3.10.6        Prepare helicopter for fuel cell maintenance
                                                                                                                                    -       -        -
               TR: TOs 00-25-172, 1-1-3
A3.10.7        REMOVE AND INSTALL

A3.10.7.1      185 gal auxiliary tank(s)                          *                                                                 -       -        -

A3.10.7.2      200 gal auxiliary tanks                                                                                              -       -        -

A3.10.7.3      Transfer pump                                                                                                       b        -        -

A3.10.7.4      Dump pump                                                                                                            -       -        -




                                                                                  48                                                      Attachment 3
                                       H-60 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                           2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                             To Indicate
                                                                                                                             Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                  B            C        A      B         C        D        E         A        B        C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level    Level   Level
                                                            5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)      (2)      (2)
                                                                                 Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A3.10.7.5     Transfer valves                                                                                                    -       -        -

A3.10.7.6     Dump valves                                                                                                        -       -        -

A3.10.7.7     Prime boost pump                                                                                                  2b       -        -

A3.10.7.8     Breakaway valves                                                                                                  a        -        -

A3.10.7.9     A/R probe                                                                                                         b        -        -

A3.10.7.10    A/R probe nozzle                                 *                                                                2b       -        -

A3.10.7.11    Probe management package                                                                                          b        -        -

A3.10.7.12    Fuel management package                                                                                           b        -        -

A3.10.7.13    Fuel shut-off valves                                                                                               -       -        -

A3.10.7.14    Fuel selector valves                                                                                               -       -        -

A3.10.7.15    Fuel probe lock actuators                                                                                         a        -        -

A3.10.8       Troubleshoot fuel system                                     *                                                     -       -        -
A3.10.9       Prepare A/R probe for air shipment/storage
                                                                                                                                 -       -        -
              TR: TO 6A18-5-3
A3.10.10      Disassemble/assemble A/R probe                                                                                     -       -        -

A3.11         ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS
              TR: 1H-60(H)G-2 SERIES TOS

A3.11.1       Electrical system fundamentals AC/DC                                                                              A        B        -

A3.11.2       PERFORM OPERATIONAL CHECK

A3.11.2.1     AC electrical power system                       *                                                                 -       -        -

A3.11.2.2     DC electrical power system                       *                                                                 -       -        -

A3.11.2.3     Interior light systems                           *                                                                 -       -        -

A3.11.2.4     Exterior light systems                           *                                                                 -       -        -

A3.11.3       REMOVE AND INSTALL

A3.11.3.1     Battery                                          *                                                                 -       -        -

A3.11.3.2     Generator                                        *                                                                2b       -        -

A3.11.3.3     Current limiter                                                                                                   a        -        -




                                                                               49                                                      Attachment 3
                                          H-60 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                         2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                           To Indicate
                                                                                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                B            C        A      B         C        D        E         A        B        C
                                                                                                                            3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                             Level    Level   Level
                                                          5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)      (2)      (2)
                                                                               Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A3.11.3.4     Converter                                                                                                       a        -        -

A3.11.3.5     Generator control unit                                                                                          a        -        -

A3.11.3.6     Relay panels                                                                                                     -       -        -

A3.11.3.7     Interior lights                                                                                                 a        -        -

A3.11.3.8     Exterior lights                                                                                                 a        -        -

A3.11.3.9     APU ESU/DESU                                                                                                    a        -        -

A3.11.3.10    Backup hydraulic pump motor                                                                                      -       -        -
A3.11.4       Connect/Disconnect external electrical
                                                             *                                                                b        -        -
              power
A3.11.5       Troubleshoot electrical system                                                                                  b        -        -

A3.12         INSTRUMENT SYSTEMS
              TR: 1H-60(H)G-2 SERIES TOS

A3.12.1       Instrument systems fundamentals                                                                                  -       B        -

A3.12.2       Remove/install instruments                                                                                       -       -        -

A3.12.3       Drain pitot-static system                                                                                        -       -        -
A3.12.4       Perform operational check of the
                                                                                                                               -       -        -
              instruments
A3.12.5       Remove and replace Signal Data Converter
                                                                                                                               -       -        -
              (SDC)
A3.12.6       Troubleshoot instruments                                                                                         -       -        -

A3.13         AUXILIARY POWER UNIT
              TR: 1H-60(H)G-2 SERIES TOS, TO 2G-
              T62T-61

A3.13.1       Auxiliary power unit fundamentals                                                                               A        B        -

A3.13.2       REMOVE AND INSTALL

A3.13.2.1     Hydraulic starter                                                                                               1a       -        -

A3.13.2.2     APU assembly                                                                                                    2b       -        -

A3.13.2.3     APU igniter/spark plug                                                                                          a        -        -

A3.13.2.4     APU start fuel nozzle                                                                                           a        -        -

A3.13.2.5     APU generator                                                                                                    -       -        -




                                                                             50                                                      Attachment 3
                                       H-60 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                         2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                           To Indicate
                                                                                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                B            C        A      B         C        D        E         A        B        C
                                                                                                                            3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                             Level    Level   Level
                                                          5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)      (2)      (2)
                                                                               Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A3.13.2.6     APU ignition exciter                                                                                             -       -        -

A3.13.2.7     APU exhaust pipe                                                                                                 -       -        -

A3.13.2.8     APU bleed air check valve                                                                                        -       -        -

A3.13.3       Operate APU                                                                                                      -       -        -

A3.13.4       Service oil tank                               *                                                                a        -        -

A3.13.5       Troubleshoot auxiliary power unit system                   *                                                    b        -        -

A3.14         AIRCRAFT VIBRATIONS
              TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-15 SERIES TOS

A3.14.1       Vibration fundamentals                                                                                           -       B        -

A3.14.2       Adjust main rotor blades                       *                                                                b        -        -

A3.14.3       Measure/Adjust trim tabs                                                                                         -       -        -

A3.14.4       Use trim tab bender                                                                                              -       -        -

A3.15         8500 EQUIPMENT
              TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-15 SERIES TOS

A3.15.1       Perform oil cooler vibration check                     */R                                                       -       -        -

A3.15.2       Track & balance main rotor dynamically                 */R                                                      b        -        -

A3.15.3       Balance engine output shaft                            */R                                                       -       -        -

A3.15.4       Balance tail rotor dynamically                         */R                                                      b        -        -

A3.15.5       Tune vibration absorbers                               */R                                                       -       -        -

A3.15.6       Troubleshoot using 8500 analyzer                       */R                                                      b        -        -

A3.15.7       8500 equipment installation                   */R                                                                -       -        -

A3.16         IVHMS (INTEGRATED VEHICLE
              HEALTH MONITORING SYSTEM)
              TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-15 SERIES TOS

A.3.16.1      IVHMS fundamentals                                                                                               -       B        -

A3.16.2       Main rotor tuning                                                                                                -       -        -

A3.16.3       Main rotor smoothing                                                                                             -       -        -

A3.17         BALANCE
              TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-15 SERIES TOS




                                                                             51                                                      Attachment 3
                                         H-60 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                           2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                             To Indicate
                                                                                                                             Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                  B            C        A      B         C        D        E         A        B        C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level    Level   Level
                                                            5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)      (2)      (2)
                                                                                 Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A3.17.1       Tail rotor                                                                                                         -       -        -

A3.17.2       Engine input drive shaft                                                                                           -       -        -

A3.17.3       Perform driveshaft coefficient calibration                                                                         -       -        -

A3.17.4       Tune vibration absorbers                                                                                           -       -        -

A3.17.5       Perform mechanical diagnostics                                                                                     -       -        -

A3.17.6       Download IVHMU data                                                                                                -       -        -

A3.17.7       Perform sensor RAP test                                                                                            -       -        -

A3.17.8       Configure system                                                                                                   -       -        -

A3.18         REMOVE, INSTALL AND
              OPERATIONALLY CHECK IVHMS
              COMPONENTS
              TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-15 SERIES TOS

A3.18.1       Control display unit                                                                                               -       -        -

A3.18.2       Integrated Vehicle Health Monitoring Unit
                                                                                                                                 -       -        -
              (IVHMU)

A3.18.3       Accelerometers & mounts/brackets                                                                                   -       -        -

A3.18.4       Optical Tracker & mounts/brackets                                                                                  -       -        -

A3.18.5       Magnetic RPM sensors & mounts/brackets                                                                             -       -        -

A3.18.6       Tail rotor interrupter and counterweight
                                                                                                                                 -       -        -
              bracket
A3.18.7       Optical tachometer                                                                                                 -       -        -

A3.18.8       Remote Data Concentrator (RDC)                                                                                     -       -        -

A3.18.9       Pedal potentiometer                                                                                                -       -        -

A3.18.10      RH WOW relay                                                                                                       -       -        -

A3.18.11      Thermocouple amplifier                                                                                             -       -        -

A3.18.12      Junction box                                                                                                       -       -        -

A3.18.13      Data Transfer Unit (DTU)                                                                                           -       -        -

A3.18.14      Ethernet download port                                                                                             -       -        -




                                                                               52                                                      Attachment 3
                                        H-60 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                     2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                       To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            B            C        A      B         C        D        E         A        B        C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                         Level    Level   Level
                                                      5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier    (1)      (2)      (2)
                                                                           Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A3.18.15      GPS switch                                                                                                   -       -        -

A3.18.16      IVHMU battery replacement                                                                                    -       -        -

A3.18.17      IVHMU underwater beacon battery
                                                                                                                           -       -        -
              replacement, cleaning and testing

A3.19         OPERATE IVHMS GROUND STATION
              TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-15 SERIES

A3.19.1       Initialize Data Transfer Memory Unit
                                                                                                                           -       -        -
              (DTMU) card
A3.19.2       Download DTMU card                                                                                           -       -        -

A3.19.3       IVHMS pilot debrief                                                                                          -       -        -

A3.19.4       IVHMS maintenance debrief                                                                                    -       -        -

A3.19.5       Rotor tuning procedures                                                                                      -       -        -




                                                                         53                                                      Attachment 3
This Page Intentionally Left Blank




                54                   Attachment 3
                                        CV-22 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                   2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                     To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information
                                                                                                                     Provided (See Note)
   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       B            C      A         B         C       D        E        A        B        C
                                                                                                                      3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                      Level Level       Level
                                                    5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier (1)        (2)      (2)
                                                                         Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC
NOTE 1: Users are responsible for annotating training references pending STS revision.
NOTE 2: All task/knowledge taught in the initial skills course trained in the resident wartime courses.
NOTE 3: Items marked with an (*/R) are optional for ANG/AFRC when training is not available, but must be accomplished when
        training opportunity becomes available (execpt for air reserve technicians and fulltime technicians for upgrade).
A4.1            AIRCRAFT INSPECTIONS
               TR: TO 00-20-1; APPLICABLE
               INTERACTIVE ELECTRONIC TECHNICAL
               MANUAL (IETM)

A4.1.1         INSPECTION CONCEPT

A4.1.1.1       Phase                                                                                                    A       B        -

A4.1.1.2       Preflight (PR)                                                                                           B       B        -

A4.1.1.3       Thruflight                                                                                               B       B        -

A4.1.1.4       Basic Postflight (BPO)                                                                                   B       B        -

A4.1.1.5       Combined BPO/PR                                                                                          B       B        -

A4.1.1.6       Hourly/cycle                                                                                             A       B        -

A4.1.2         SUPPLEMENTAL INSPECTIONS

A4.1.2.1       Acceptance                                                                                               A      B         -

A4.1.2.2       Calendar                                                                                                 A      B         -

A4.1.2.3       Special/Conditional                                                                                      A      B         -

A4.1.3         PERFORM

A4.1.3.1       Phase                                                                                                    -       -        -

A4.1.3.2       Preflight                               *                                                                -       -        -

A4.1.3.3       Thruflight                              *                                                                -       -        -

A4.1.3.4       Basic postflight                        *                                                               2b       -        -

A4.1.3.5       Combined BPO/PR                         *                                                               2b       -        -

A4.1.3.6       Acceptance                                                                                               -       -        -

A4.1.3.7       Calendar                                *                                                                -       -        -

A4.1.3.8       Hourly/cycle                            *                                                                -       -        -

A4.1.3.9       Special/Conditional                                                                                      -       -        -




                                                                   55                                                       Attachment 4
                                        CV-22 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                          2. Core Tasks         3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                             To Indicate
                                                                                                                             Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                B           C       A         B         C       D        E        A        B        C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                              Level Level       Level
                                                            5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier (1)        (2)      (2)
                                                                                 Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC
A4.2          CV-22 GENERAL
              TR: APPLICABLE IETM

A4.2.1        Perform safe for maintenance procedures          *                                                               2b       -        -
A4.2.2        Composite materials: maintenance, cleaning,
                                                                                                                                B       B        -
              and safety procedures
A4.2.3        Directional Infrared Countermeasures
                                                                                                                                A       -        -
              DIRCM laser safety
A4.2.4        Hazard areas                                                                                                      B       B        -

A4.2.5        SYSTEM INTEGRATION AND DISPLAY
              TR: TO 1V-22(C) B-2DB-1 (ITEMS)

A4.2.5.1      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                          A       -        -

A4.2.5.2      Operate cockpit management system                *                                                               2b       -        -
A4.2.6        IETM AND PORTABLE ELECTRONIC
              MAINTENANCE AID (PEMA)

A4.2.6.1      Operating principles of IETM and PEMA                                                                             B       -        -

A4.2.6.2      Operate and use IETM and PEMA                    *                                                               2b       -        -

A4.2.7        Operate Electronic Wiring Schematic (EWS)                                                                         a       -        -

A4.2.8        Inspect data bus cables                                                                                           -       -        -
A4.2.9        Operate aircraft maintenance event ground
                                                                                                                                b       -        -
              station
A4.2.10       Analyze ground station data                      *                                                                -       -        -

A4.2.11       Ingress/Egress procedures                                                                                         B       B        -

A4.2.12       Tiltrotor flight control surfaces                                                                                 B       B        -

A4.2.13       Tiltrotor theory of flight                                                                                        B       B        -

A4.2.14       Initiate Technical Assist Request (TAR)                                                                           -       -        -
A4.2.15       Utilize Virtual Technical Assistance
                                                                                                                                -       -        -
              Management Program (VTAMP)
A4.3          GROUND HANDLING
              TR: AFI 11-218; AFOSH STD
              91 SERIES; APPLICABLE IETM

A4.3.1        Launch aircraft                                  *                                                                -       -        -

A4.3.2        Recover aircraft                                 *                                                                -       -        -

A4.3.3        TOW AIRCRAFT

A4.3.3.1      Perform as tow team member                       *                                                                b       -        -




                                                                          56                                                        Attachment 4
                                       CV-22 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                       2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                         To Indicate
                                                                                                                         Training/Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            B            C      A         B         C       D        E        A        B        C
                                                                                                                          3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                          Level Level       Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier (1)        (2)      (2)
                                                                             Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A4.3.3.2      Perform as tow brake operator                *                                                                b       -        -

A4.3.3.3      Perform as tow vehicle operator                                                                               -       -        -

A4.3.3.4      Perform as tow team supervisor                           *                                                    -       -        -

A4.3.4        Moor aircraft                                *                                                                b       -        -

A4.3.5        JACK/LIFT AIRCRAFT

A4.3.5.1      Perform as jacking team member               *                                                                b       -        -

A4.3.5.2      Perform as jacking supervisor                            *                                                    -       -        -

A4.3.5.3      Perform axle jack procedures                 *                                                               2b       -        -

A4.3.5.4      Hoist aircraft                                                                                                -       -        -

A4.3.6        PERFORM REFUEL/DE-FUEL

A4.3.6.1      Operate ground refuel/defuel panel           *                                                                b       A        -

A4.3.6.2      Pressure refuel/defuel team member           *                                                                b       A        -

A4.3.6.3      Pressure refuel/defuel team supervisor                   *                                                    -       -        -

A4.3.6.4      Gravity refuel team member                                                                                    -       -        -

A4.3.6.5      Gravity refuel team supervisor                                                                                -       -        -

A4.3.6.6      Aircraft fuel sampling                                                                                        -       -        -
A4.3.7        PERFORM BLADE FOLD WING STOW
              (BFWS)

A4.3.7.1      BFWS team member                             *                                                                -       -        -

A4.3.7.2      BFWS panel operator/supervisor                           *                                                    -       -        -
A4.4          AIRCRAFT ELETRICAL AND
              ENVIRONMENTAL SYSTEMS
              TR: APPLICABLE IETM

A4.4.1        ELECTRICAL POWER SYSTEM

A4.4.1.1      Operational fundamentals                                                                                      B       B        -
A4.4.1.2      Connect/Apply/Disconnect external
                                                                                                                           2b       -        -
              electrical power
A4.4.1.3      Inspect system components                                                                                     -       -        -

A4.4.1.4      Operational check                                                                                             -       -        -




                                                                       57                                                       Attachment 4
                                      CV-22 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                      2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                        To Indicate
                                                                                                                        Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          B            C      A         B         C       D        E        A        B        C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                         Level Level       Level
                                                       5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier (1)        (2)      (2)
                                                                            Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A4.4.1.5       Service variable frequency generator       *                                                                b       -        -

A4.4.1.6       REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.4.1.6.1     Aircraft battery                                                                                            b       -        -

A4.4.1.6.2     Regulated converter                                                                                         -       -        -

A4.4.1.6.3     Constant frequency generator                                                                                -       -        -

A4.4.1.6.4     Variable Frequency Generator (VFG)                                                                          -       -        -

A4.4.1.6.5     VFG filter assembly                                                                                         -       -        -

A4.4.2         LIGHTING SYSTEM

A4.4.2.1       Operational fundamentals                                                                                    B       B        -

A4.4.2.2       Perform operational check                                                                                   b       B        -

A4.4.2.3       Inspect system components                                                                                   b       B        -

A4.4.2.4       Isolate system malfunctions                                                                                 -       -        -

A4.4.2.5       REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.4.2.5.1     Interior lights                                                                                             -       -        -

A4.4.2.5.2     Exterior lights                                                                                             -       -        -
A4.4.3         FIRE PROTECTION, DETECTION AND
               SUPPRESSION SYSTEMS

A4.4.3.1       Operational fundamentals                                                                                    B       B        -

A4.4.3.2       Inspect system components                                                                                   -       -        -

A4.4.3.3       Perform functional check                                                                                   2b       -        -

A4.4.3.4       Isolate system malfunctions                                                                                 -       -        -

A4.4.3.5       REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.4.3.5.1     Nacelle inboard and lower fire door
                                                                                                                           -       -        -
               assembly
A4.4.4        ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL
              SYSTEM (ECS) AND AVIONICS
              COOLING SYSTEM

A4.4.4.1       Operational fundamentals                                                                                    B       B        -

A4.4.4.2       Inspect system components                                                                                   -       -        -




                                                                      58                                                       Attachment 4
                                      CV-22 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                         2. Core Tasks           3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                              To Indicate
                                                                                                                              Training/Information
                                                                                                                              Provided (See Note)
   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                B         C         A         B         C       D        E        A        B        C
                                                                                                                               3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level Level       Level
                                                             5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier (1)        (2)      (2)
                                                                                  Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A4.4.4.3       Operational check                                                                                                 -       -        -

A4.4.4.4       Service/Drain shaft driven compressor            *                                                                b       -        -

A4.4.4.5       Isolate system malfunctions                                                                                       -       -        -

A4.4.4.6      REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.4.4.6.1     Shaft driven compressor                                                                                           -       -        -

A4.4.4.6.2     Oil filter                                                                                                        -       -        -

A4.4.4.6.3     Chip detector                                    *                                                                -       -        -
A4.4.5         AIRFOIL ICE DETECTION AND
               PROTECTION

A4.4.5.1       Operational fundamentals                                                                                          B       B        -

A4.4.5.2       Inspect system components                                                                                         -       -        -

A4.4.5.3       Perform operational check                                                                                         b       -        -

A4.4.5.4       Isolate system malfunctions                                                                                       -       -        -
A4.4.5.5       Remove and install wing leading edge de-ice
                                                                                                                                 -       -        -
               panels
A4.4.6         WINDSHIELD RAIN REMOVAL SYSTEM

A4.4.6.1       Operational fundamentals                                                                                          B       B        -

A4.4.6.2       Perform operational check                                                                                         b       -        -

A4.4.6.3       Inspect system components                                                                                         -       -        -

A4.4.6.4       Rig/Adjust windshield wipers                                                                                      -       -        -

A4.4.6.5       Isolate system malfunctions                                                                                       -       -        -

A4.4.6.6       REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.4.6.6.1     Windshield wiper assembly                                                                                         -       -        -

A4.4.6.6.2     Wiper converter                                                                                                   -       -        -

A4.4.6.6.3     Windshield washer reservoir                                                                                       -       -        -
A4.4.7         OXYGEN (O2) AND NITROGEN (N2)
               SYSTEMS
               TR: APPLICABLE IETM; TO 15X-1-1
A4.4.7.1       Purpose and description of liquid O2
                                                                                                                                 A       -        -
               systems




                                                                           59                                                        Attachment 4
                                       CV-22 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                      2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                        To Indicate
                                                                                                                        Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           B            C      A         B         C       D        E        A        B        C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                         Level Level       Level
                                                       5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier (1)        (2)      (2)
                                                                            Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC
A4.4.7.2      Purpose and description of gaseous O2
                                                                                                                           A       -        -
              systems
A4.4.7.3      Purpose and description of gaseous N2
                                                                                                                           A       -        -
              systems
A4.4.7.4      Operational fundamentals                                                                                     B       B        -

A4.4.7.5      Isolate system malfunctions                                                                                  -       -        -
A4.5          HYDRAULIC POWER SYSTEM AND
              HYDRAULICALLY ACTUATED SYSTEMS
              TR: APPLICABLE IETM

A4.5.1        HYDRAULIC POWER AND CONTROL

A4.5.1.1      Operational fundamentals                                                                                     B       B        -

A4.5.1.2      Perform operational BIT check               *                                                               2b       -        -

A4.5.1.3      Perform hydraulic fluid sampling                                                                             b       -        -

A4.5.1.4      Bleed/Leak check hydraulic system           *                                                                b       -        -

A4.5.1.5      Service hydraulic system                    *                                                               2b       -        -

A4.5.1.6      Inspect hydraulic system                    *                                                                -       -        -

A4.5.1.7      Evaluate hydraulic tubing damage            *                                                                b       -        -

A4.5.1.8      Isolate system malfunctions                                                                                  -       -        -

A4.5.1.9      Repair tubing using rynglok kit                                                                              b       -        -

A4.5.1.10     REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.5.1.10.1   Accumulators                                                                                                 -       -        -

A4.5.1.10.2   Case drain strainer                                                                                          -       -        -

A4.5.1.10.3   Pump                                                                                                         b       -        -

A4.5.1.10.4   Hydraulic Rosan Fittings                                                                                     b       -        -

A4.5.1.10.5   Flight control module                                                                                        -       -        -

A4.5.1.10.6   Local isolation valve                                                                                        -       -        -

A4.5.1.10.7   Remote isolation valve                                                                                       -       -        -

A4.5.1.10.8   Hydraulic plumbing                                                                                           -       -        -

A4.5.1.10.9   Hydraulic filter                            *                                                                b       -        -




                                                                      60                                                       Attachment 4
                                       CV-22 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                          2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                            To Indicate
                                                                                                                            Training/Information
                                                                                                                            Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References               B            C      A         B         C       D        E        A        B        C
                                                                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                             Level Level       Level
                                                           5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier (1)        (2)      (2)
                                                                                Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A4.5.1.10.10 Thermal control valve                                                                                             -       -        -

A4.5.1.10.11 Utility isolation valve                                                                                           -       -        -

A4.5.1.10.12 Nacelle swivel assembly                                                                                           -       -        -

A4.5.1.10.13 Wing swivel assembly                                                                                              -       -        -

A4.5.1.10.14 Hydraulic fluid compensation module                                                                               -       -        -

A4.5.1.10.15 Electric maintenance pump                                                                                         -       -        -

A4.5.1.10.16 Hydraulic fluid level monitor                                                                                     -       -        -

A4.5.1.10.17 Pressure switches                                                                                                 -       -        -
A4.5.2        FLIGHT CONTROL HYDRAULIC
              COMPONENTS

A4.5.2.1      Rig/Adjust elevator, rudder, and flaperon                   *                                                    b       -        -

A4.5.2.2      Isolate system malfunctions                                                                                      -       -        -

A4.5.2.3      REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.5.2.3.1    Elevator actuator                                                                                                -       -        -

A4.5.2.3.2    Rudder actuator                                                                                                  -       -        -

A4.5.2.3.3    Flaperon actuator                                           *                                                    -       -        -

A4.5.2.3.4    Swashplate actuator                                         *                                                    -       -        -

A4.5.2.3.5    Conversion actuator                                         *                                                    b       -        -

A4.5.2.3.6    Hydraulic power drive unit                                  *                                                    -       -        -

A4.5.2.3.7    Remote piston assembly                                                                                           -       -        -

A4.5.3        LANDING GEAR

A4.5.3.1      Operational fundamentals                                                                                         B       B        -

A4.5.3.2      Perform operational check                       *                                                                b       -        -

A4.5.3.3      Inspect components                                                                                               -       -        -

A4.5.3.4      Isolate malfunctions                                                                                             -       -        -

A4.5.3.5      MAIN LANDING GEAR (MLG)




                                                                          61                                                       Attachment 4
                                      CV-22 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                     2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                       To Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          B            C      A         B         C       D        E        A        B        C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                        Level Level       Level
                                                      5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier (1)        (2)      (2)
                                                                           Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A4.5.3.5.1     Rig and adjust MLG doors                              *                                                    b       -        -

A4.5.3.5.2     Lubricate MLG components                  *                                                                b       -        -

A4.5.3.5.3     Service/Bleed MLG shock strut             *                                                                b       -        -

A4.5.3.5.4     REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.5.3.5.4.1   MLG shock strut                                                                                            -       -        -

A4.5.3.5.4.2   MLG drag strut                                        *                                                    -       -        -

A4.5.3.5.4.3   MLG doors                                                                                                  -       -        -

A4.5.3.5.4.4   MLG door linkage                                                                                           -       -        -

A4.5.3.5.4.5   MLG components                                                                                             -       -        -

A4.5.3.6       NOSE LANDING GEAR (NLG)

A4.5.3.6.1     Rig and adjust NLG doors                              *                                                    -       -        -

A4.5.3.6.2     Lubricate NLG components                  *                                                                b       -        -

A4.5.3.6.3     Service/Bleed NLG shock strut             *                                                                b       -        -

A4.5.3.6.4     Operate hike system                                                                                        -       -        -

A4.5.3.6.5     REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.5.3.6.5.1   NLG shock strut                                                                                            -       -        -

A4.5.3.6.5.2   NLG drag strut                            *                                                                -       -        -

A4.5.3.6.5.3   NLG doors                                                                                                  -       -        -

A4.5.3.6.5.4   NLG door linkage                                                                                           -       -        -

A4.5.3.6.5.5   NWS components                                                                                             -       -        -

A4.5.3.6.5.6   Nose landing gear hike select valve                                                                        -       -        -
A4.5.3.7       NOSE WHEEL STEERING (NWS) SYSTEM
               TR: 1V-22 ( C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)

A4.5.3.7.1     Operational fundamentals                                                                                   B       -        -

A4.5.3.7.2     Perform operational check                                                                                  b       -        -

A4.5.3.7.3     Rig and adjust NWS                                    *                                                    -       -        -




                                                                     62                                                       Attachment 4
                                       CV-22 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                              2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                                To Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information
                                                                                                                                Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                   B            C      A         B         C       D        E        A        B        C
                                                                                                                                 3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                                 Level Level       Level
                                                               5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier (1)        (2)      (2)
                                                                                    Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A4.5.3.7.4     Isolate NWS malfunctions                                                                                            -       -        -
A4.5.3.7.5     Remove/Install nose landing gear power
                                                                                                                                   -       -        -
               steering unit
A4.5.3.7.6     Remove/Install pressure reducer relief valve                                                                        -       -        -

A4.5.3.7.7     Bleed/Leak check NWS system                                                                                         -       -        -
A4.5.3.8       LANDING GEAR CONTROL AND
               EMERGENCY EXTENSION SYSTEM
A4.5.3.8.1     Operational check emergency extension
                                                                  *                                                                -       -        -
               system
A4.5.3.8.2     Service emergency extension reservoir              *                                                                b       -        -

A4.5.3.8.3     REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.5.3.8.3.1   Emergency extension reservoir                                                                                       b       -        -

A4.5.3.8.3.2   Landing gear control unit                                                                                           -       -        -

A4.5.3.8.3.3   Landing gear control valve                                                                                          -       -        -

A4.5.3.8.3.4   Emergency extension components                                                                                      -       -        -

A4.5.3.9       MLG BRAKE SYSTEM

A4.5.3.9.1     Operational fundamentals                                                                                            B       B        -
A4.5.3.9.2     Perform back up brake system functional
                                                                                                                                   b       -        -
               check
A4.5.3.9.3     Inspect brake system components                                                                                     -       -        -

A4.5.3.9.4     Isolate system malfunctions                                                                                         -       -        -

A4.5.3.9.5     Service/Bleed MLG brake system                                 *                                                    -       -        -

A4.5.3.9.6     REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.5.3.9.6.1   MLG brake assembly                                 *                                                               2b       -        -

A4.5.3.9.6.2   Parking brake transfer module                                                                                       -       -        -

A4.5.3.9.6.3   Back-up brake components                                                                                            -       -        -

A4.5.3.9.6.4   Brake master cylinder                                                                                               -       -        -

A4.5.3.10      WHEEL AND TIRE ASSEMBLIES

A4.5.3.10.1    Inspect MLG wheel and tire                                                                                         2b       -        -




                                                                              63                                                       Attachment 4
                                      CV-22 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                       2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                         To Indicate
                                                                                                                         Training/Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            B            C      A         B         C       D        E        A        B        C
                                                                                                                          3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                          Level Level       Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier (1)        (2)      (2)
                                                                             Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A4.5.3.10.2   Inspect NLG wheel and tire                                                                                    -       -        -

A4.5.3.10.3   Service/De-service MLG tire                  *                                                               2b       -        -

A4.5.3.10.4   Service/De-service NLG tire                  *                                                                -       -        -
A4.5.3.10.5   Remove and install MLG wheel and tire
                                                           *                                                               2b       -        -
              assembly
A4.5.3.10.6   Remove and install NLG wheel and tire
                                                                                                                            -       -        -
              assembly
A4.6          UTILITY SYSTEMS
              TR: APPLICABLE IETM
A4.6.1        CARGO WINCH

A4.6.1.1      Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -       -        -

A4.6.1.2      Operational check                                                                                             -       -        -

A4.6.1.3      Inspect cargo winch components                                                                                -       -        -

A4.6.1.4      Service/Drain cargo winch assembly                                                                            -       -        -

A4.6.1.5      Isolate cargo winch malfunctions                                                                              -       -        -

A4.6.1.6      REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.6.1.6.1    Winch assembly                                                                                                -       -        -

A4.6.1.6.2    Winch cable                                                                                                   -       -        -

A4.6.1.6.3    Hoist winch control valve                                                                                     -       -        -

A4.6.1.6.4    Cargo winch components                                                                                        -       -        -

A4.6.2        CARGO HOOK

A4.6.2.1      Operational fundamentals                                                                                      A       B        -

A4.6.2.2      Operational check                                                                                             -       -        -

A4.6.2.3      Inspect cargo hook components                                                                                 -       -        -

A4.6.2.4      Rig/Adjust cargo hook                                                                                         -       -        -

A4.6.2.5      Isolate cargo hook malfunctions                                                                               -       -        -

A4.6.2.6      Remove and install cargo hook assembly                                                                        -       -        -

A4.6.3        RESCUE HOIST




                                                                       64                                                       Attachment 4
                                       CV-22 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                   2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                     To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information
                                                                                                                     Provided (See Note)
   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       B            C      A         B         C       D        E        A        B        C
                                                                                                                      3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                      Level Level       Level
                                                    5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier (1)        (2)      (2)
                                                                         Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A4.6.3.1       Operational fundamentals                                                                                 B      B         -

A4.6.3.2       Perform operational check               *                                                                b      B         -

A4.6.3.3       Inspect rescue hoist                    *                                                                b       -        -

A4.6.3.4       Isolate rescue hoist malfunctions                                                                        -       -        -

A4.6.3.5       REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.6.3.5.1     Rescue hoist assembly                                                                                    b       -        -

A4.6.3.5.2     Cable and hook assembly                 *                                                                -       -        -

A4.6.4         CARGO RAMP AND DOOR SYSTEM

A4.6.4.1       Operational fundamentals                                                                                 B       B        -

A4.6.4.2       Perform operational check                                                                                b       -        -

A4.6.4.3       Inspect system components                                                                                -       -        -

A4.6.4.4       Rig/Adjust ramp and door system                                                                          -       -        -

A4.6.4.5       Isolate system malfunctions                                                                              -       -        -

A4.6.4.6       REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.6.4.6.1     Cargo ramp actuator                                                                                      -       -        -

A4.6.4.6.2     Cargo door actuator                                                                                      -       -        -

A4.6.4.6.3     Ramp/Door control valve                                                                                  -       -        -

A4.6.4.6.4     Cargo ramp and door components                                                                           -       -        -

A4.6.5        ROTOR BRAKE SYSTEM

A4.6.5.1       Operational fundamentals                                                                                 B       B        -

A4.6.5.2       Inspect rotor brake assembly                                                                             b       -        -

A4.6.5.3       Bleed system                                                                                             -       -        -

A4.6.5.4       Isolate system malfunctions                                                                              -       -        -

A4.6.5.5       REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.6.5.5.1     Brake shroud                                                                                             -       -        -




                                                                   65                                                       Attachment 4
                                         CV-22 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                             2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                               To Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information
                                                                                                                               Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                  B            C      A         B         C       D        E        A        B        C
                                                                                                                                3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level Level       Level
                                                              5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier (1)        (2)      (2)
                                                                                   Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A4.6.5.5.2     Brake head assembly                                                                                                -       -        -

A4.6.5.5.3     Brake disk                                                                                                         -       -        -

A4.6.5.5.4     Rotor brake components                                                                                             -       -        -
A4.7           PROPROTOR, DRIVE, AND GEARBOX
               SYSTEMS
               TR: APPLICABLE IETM

A4.7.1         PROPROTOR SYSTEM

A4.7.1.1       Operational fundamentals                                                                                           B       B        -
A4.7.1.2       Vibration Structural Life Engine Diagnostic
                                                                                                                                  A       B        -
               (VSLED) system
A4.7.1.3       Perform track and balance using VSLED             *                                                                -       -        -

A4.7.1.4       Inspect proprotor system components                                                                                -       -        -

A4.7.1.5       Isolate system malfunctions                                                                                        -       -        -

A4.7.1.6       REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.7.1.6.1     BLADES

A4.7.1.6.1.1   Proprotor blade                                               *                                                   2b       -        -

A4.7.1.6.1.2   Proprotor blade weights                           *                                                                b       -        -

A4.7.1.6.1.3   Optical blade tracker                                         *                                                    -       -        -
A4.7.1.6.2     SPINNER AND PENDULUM DAMPER
               ASSEMBLY

A4.7.1.6.2.1   Spinner cover and panels                          *                                                               2b       -        -

A4.7.1.6.2.2   Pendulum damper assembly                                      *                                                   2b       -        -

A4.7.1.6.2.3   Pendulum spindle                                                                                                   -       -        -

A4.7.1.6.2.4   Pendulum weight                                                                                                    -       -        -

A4.7.1.6.3     PROPROTOR HUB ASSEMBLY

A4.7.1.6.3.1   Proprotor hub                                                 *                                                   2b       -        -

A4.7.1.6.3.2   Blade/Grip fairings                               *                                                               2b       -        -

A4.7.1.6.3.3   Shim blade/grip fairings                          *                                                               2b       -        -

A4.7.1.6.3.4   Central de-ice distributor                                                                                         -       -        -




                                                                             66                                                       Attachment 4
                                      CV-22 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                          2. Core Tasks         3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                             To Indicate
                                                                                                                             Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                B           C       A         B         C       D        E        A        B        C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                              Level Level       Level
                                                            5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier (1)        (2)      (2)
                                                                                 Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A4.7.1.6.3.5   Mast adapter                                                                                                    2b       -        -

A4.7.1.6.3.6   Hub springs                                                                                                      -       -        -

A4.7.1.6.3.7   Hub CF bearing                                                                                                   -       -        -

A4.7.1.6.3.8   Hub spindle assembly                                                                                             -       -        -

A4.7.1.6.3.9   Hub beam assembly                                                                                                -       -        -

A4.7.1.6.3.10 Hub beam pitch change bearing                                                                                     -       -        -

A4.7.1.6.3.11 Hub grip assembly                                                                                                 -       -        -

A4.7.1.6.3.12 Hub pitch change horn                                                                                             -       -        -

A4.7.1.6.3.13 Anti-drive assembly                              *                                                                -       -        -

A4.7.1.6.3.14 Swashplate                                                  *                                                    2b       -        -

A4.7.1.6.3.15 Pitch links                                      *                                                               2b       -        -

A4.7.1.6.3.16 Pitch link rod ends                                                                                               -       -        -

A4.7.1.6.3.17 Hub flapping sensor                                                                                               -       -        -

A4.7.1.6.3.18 Slip ring/standpipe assembly                                                                                      -       -        -

A4.7.2         BLADE FOLD WING STOW SYSTEM

A4.7.2.1       BLADE FOLD

A4.7.2.1.1     Operational fundamentals                                                                                         B       B        -

A4.7.2.1.2     Perform operational check                                  *                                                    2b       -        -
A4.7.2.1.3     Rig and adjust Proprotor Blade Fold (PRBF)
                                                                          *                                                     -       -        -
               system
A4.7.2.1.4     Manual fold/unfold PRBF                                                                                          b       B        -

A4.7.2.1.5     Isolate system malfunctions                                                                                      -       -        -

A4.7.2.1.6     REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.7.2.1.6.1   Rotor position unit                                                                                              -       -        -

A4.7.2.1.6.2   Trailing/Leading edge planetary assembly                                                                        2b       -        -

A4.7.2.1.6.3   PRBF linkage                                                                                                     -       -        -




                                                                          67                                                        Attachment 4
                                         CV-22 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                                 To Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information
                                                                                                                                 Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                    B            C      A         B         C       D        E        A        B        C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level Level       Level
                                                                5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier (1)        (2)      (2)
                                                                                     Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A4.7.2.1.6.4   Blade fold control unit                                                                                              -       -        -

A4.7.2.1.6.5   Blade fold support assembly                                                                                          b       B        -

A4.7.2.2       WING STOW

A4.7.2.2.1     Operational fundamentals                                                                                             B       B        -

A4.7.2.2.2     Perform operational check                                                                                           2b       -        -

A4.7.2.2.3     Inspect system components                                                                                            -       -        -

A4.7.2.2.4     Rig and adjust wing stow system                                 *                                                    -       -        -

A4.7.2.2.5     Rig and adjust lock pin safety flag indicator                                                                        -       -        -

A4.7.2.2.6     Perform manual stow/unstow wing                                                                                      b       B        -

A4.7.2.2.7     Isolate system malfunctions                                                                                          -       -        -

A4.7.2.2.8     REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.7.2.2.8.1   Wing lockpin actuator                                                                                                -       -        -

A4.7.2.2.8.2   Capstan drive assembly                                                                                               -       -        -

A4.7.2.2.8.3   Capstan drive hydraulic motor                                                                                        -       -        -

A4.7.2.2.8.4   Wing stow cable                                                                                                      -       -        -

A4.7.2.2.8.5   Wing lock indicator                                                                                                  -       -        -

A4.7.2.2.8.6   Wing stow lockpin actuator control module                                                                            -       -        -

A4.7.2.2.8.7   Manual drive unit                                                                                                    -       -        -

A4.7.2.2.8.8   Wing stow components                                                                                                 -       -        -

A4.7.3         DRIVE SYSTEM

A4.7.3.1       Operational fundamentals                                                                                             B       B        -

A4.7.3.2       Functional check                                                                                                     -       -        -

A4.7.3.3       Inspect components                                                                                                   -       -        -

A4.7.3.4       Lubricate single/double couplings                                                                                    b       -        -

A4.7.3.5       Isolate system malfunctions                                                                                          -       -        -




                                                                               68                                                       Attachment 4
                                       CV-22 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                 2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                   To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information
                                                                                                                   Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      B            C      A         B         C       D        E        A        B        C
                                                                                                                    3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                    Level Level       Level
                                                  5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier (1)        (2)      (2)
                                                                       Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A4.7.3.6      Adjust proprotor azimuth/phase                     *                                                    -       -        -

A4.7.3.7      REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.7.3.7.1    Wing drive shafts                      *                                                                -       -        -

A4.7.3.7.2    Spindle drive shaft                    *                                                               2b       -        -

A4.7.3.7.3    Pylon driveshaft                       *                                                                -       -        -

A4.7.3.7.4    Blower drive shaft                     *                                                                -       -        -

A4.7.3.7.5    Single/double couplings                *                                                               2b       -        -

A4.7.3.7.6    Gearbox flexible couplings             *                                                                -       -        -

A4.7.3.7.7    Replace gearbox seals                                                                                   -       -        -

A4.7.4        PROPROTOR GEARBOX (PRGB)

A4.7.4.1      Operational fundamentals                                                                                B       B        -

A4.7.4.2      Inspect PRGB                                                                                            -       -        -

A4.7.4.3      Service/Drain PRGB                     *                                                                b       -        -

A4.7.4.4      Isolate system malfunctions                                                                             -       -        -

A4.7.4.5      REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.7.4.5.1    PRGB                                               *                                                    -       -        -

A4.7.4.5.2    Magnetic plug and debris sensor        *                                                                b       -        -

A4.7.4.5.3    Input quill assembly                                                                                    -       -        -

A4.7.4.5.4    Oil filter                                                                                             2b       -        -

A4.7.4.5.5    Temperature transducer                                                                                  -       -        -

A4.7.4.5.6    Nacelle blower                         *                                                                -       -        -

A4.7.4.5.7    Nacelle heat exchanger                                                                                  -       -        -

A4.7.4.5.8    Dump valve                                                                                              -       -        -

A4.7.4.5.9    Nacelle blower pressure switch                                                                          -       -        -

A4.7.5        TILT AXIS GEARBOX (TAGB)




                                                                 69                                                       Attachment 4
                                          CV-22 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                    2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                      To Indicate
                                                                                                                      Training/Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References         B            C      A         B         C       D        E        A        B        C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level       Level
                                                     5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier (1)        (2)      (2)
                                                                          Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A4.7.5.1      Operational fundamentals                                                                                   B       B        -

A4.7.5.2      Inspect TAGB                              *                                                                -       -        -

A4.7.5.3      Service/drain TAGB                        *                                                                b       -        -

A4.7.5.4      Isolate malfunctions                      *                                                                -       -        -

A4.7.5.5      REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.7.5.5.1    TAGB                                                                                                       -       -        -

A4.7.5.5.2    Magnetic plug and debris sensor           *                                                                -       -        -

A4.7.5.5.3    Single/dual stage filters                                                                                  -       -        -

A4.7.5.5.4    Lube and scavenge pump                                                                                     -       -        -

A4.7.6        MIDWING GEARBOX (MWGB)

A4.7.6.1      Operational fundamentals                                                                                   B       B        -

A4.7.6.2      Operational check                                                                                          -       -        -

A4.7.6.3      Inspect system components                                                                                  -       -        -

A4.7.6.4      Service/drain MWGB                        *                                                                b       -        -

A4.7.6.5      Isolate system malfunctions                                                                                -       -        -

A4.7.6.6      REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.7.6.6.1    MWGB                                                                                                       -       -        -

A4.7.6.6.2    Oil filter assembly                                                                                        -       -        -

A4.7.6.6.3    Oil filters                               *                                                               2b       -        -

A4.7.6.6.4    Oil breather                                                                                               -       -        -

A4.7.6.6.5    Oil manifold                                                                                               -       -        -

A4.7.6.6.6    Oil cooler/fan assembly                                                                                    -       -        -

A4.7.6.6.7    Oil pump                                                                                                   -       -        -

A4.7.6.6.8    Magnetic plug and debris sensor           *                                                                -       -        -
A4.7.7        EMERGENCY LUBRICATION SYSTEM
              (ELS)




                                                                    70                                                       Attachment 4
                                        CV-22 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                  2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                    To Indicate
                                                                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                    Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       B            C      A         B         C       D        E        A        B        C
                                                                                                                     3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                     Level Level       Level
                                                   5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier (1)        (2)      (2)
                                                                        Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A4.7.7.1      Operational fundamentals                                                                                 B       B        -

A4.7.7.2      Operational check                                                                                        -       -        -

A4.7.7.3      Service/drain reservoir                 *                                                                b       -        -

A4.7.7.4      Inspect system components                                                                                -       -        -

A4.7.7.5      Remove and install reservoir                                                                             -       -        -
A4.8          ENGINE AND AUXILIARY POWER UNIT
              (APU)
              TR: APPLICABLE IETM

A4.8.1        ENGINE ASSEMBLY

A4.8.1.1      Constructional features                                                                                  -       -        -

A4.8.1.2      Operational fundamentals                                                                                 B       B        -

A4.8.1.3      Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -       -        -

A4.8.1.4      Perform engine running rinse                                                                             b       -        -

A4.8.1.5      Perform engine compressor wash          *                                                                b       -        -

A4.8.1.6      Perform engine pressure wash                                                                             -       -        -

A4.8.1.7      Perform engine concurrent wash          *                                                                -       -        -

A4.8.1.8      Inspect engine/plumbing                                                                                  a       -        -

A4.8.1.9      Engine vibration analysis                                                                                A       -        -

A4.8.1.10     Engine borescope procedures                                                                              A       -        -

A4.8.1.10.1   Cold section                                                                                             -       -        -

A4.8.1.10.2   Hot section                                                                                              -       -        -

A4.8.1.11     REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.8.1.11.1   Engine assembly                         *                                                                -       -        -

A4.8.1.11.2   Engine mount links                      *                                                                -       -        -

A4.8.1.11.3   Engine gimbal ring                                                                                       -       -        -

A4.8.1.11.4   Accessory gearbox                                                                                        -       -        -

A4.8.2        ENGINE INLET AND ENGINE AIR
              PARTICLE SEPARATOR (EAPS)




                                                                  71                                                       Attachment 4
                                      CV-22 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                       2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                         To Indicate
                                                                                                                         Training/Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            B            C      A         B         C       D        E        A        B        C
                                                                                                                          3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                          Level Level       Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier (1)        (2)      (2)
                                                                             Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A4.8.2.1      Operational fundamentals                                                                                      B       B        -

A4.8.2.2      Inspect inlet section                                                                                         b       -        -

A4.8.2.3      Operational check EAPS                                                                                        -       -        -

A4.8.2.4      REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.8.2.4.1    Upper body inlet assembly                                                                                     b       -        -

A4.8.2.4.2    Center body inlet assembly                                                                                    b       -        -

A4.8.2.4.3    Lower body inlet assembly                                                                                     b       -        -

A4.8.2.4.4    EAPS assembly                                                                                                 -       -        -

A4.8.2.4.5    EAPS blower                                                                                                   -       -        -

A4.8.2.4.6    EAPS door and actuator                                                                                        -       -        -

A4.8.2.4.7    EAPS/inlet components                                                                                         b       B        -
A4.8.3        ENGINE INDICATING AND CONTROL
              SYSTEM

A4.8.3.1      Operational fundamentals                                                                                      B       B        -

A4.8.3.2      Inspect system components                                                                                     -       -        -

A4.8.3.3      REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.8.3.3.1    Thermocouple                                                                                                  -       -        -

A4.8.3.3.2    Thermocouple harness                                                                                          -       -        -

A4.8.3.3.3    Engine Monitoring System (EMS) harness                                                                        -       -        -

A4.8.3.3.4    Torquemeter assembly                                                                                          -       -        -

A4.8.3.3.5    Torquemeter sensor                                                                                            -       -        -

A4.8.3.3.6    Inlet guide vane actuator                                                                                     -       -        -
A4.8.3.3.7    Full Authority Digital Engine Control
                                                           *                                                                -       -        -
              (FADEC)
A4.8.3.3.8    FADEC harness                                                                                                 -       -        -

A4.8.3.3.9    Permanent Magnet Alternator (PMA)                                                                             -       -        -

A4.8.3.3.10   Pressure sensors                                                                                              -       -        -




                                                                       72                                                       Attachment 4
                                      CV-22 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                 2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                   To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information
                                                                                                                   Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      B            C      A         B         C       D        E        A        B        C
                                                                                                                    3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                    Level Level       Level
                                                  5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier (1)        (2)      (2)
                                                                       Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A4.8.3.3.11   Speed sensors                                                                                           -       -        -

A4.8.4        TEMPERATURE SENSORS

A4.8.4.1      Operational fundamentals                                                                                B       B        -

A4.8.4.2      Inspect system components                                                                               b       B        -

A4.8.4.3      REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.8.4.3.1    Fuel Pump Metering Unit (FPMU)                                                                          -       -        -

A4.8.4.3.2    Fuel nozzles                                                                                            -       -        -

A4.8.4.3.3    Fuel mass flow sensor                                                                                   -       -        -

A4.8.4.3.4    Fuel filter                                                                                             -       -        -

A4.8.5        ENGINE IGNITION SYSTEM

A4.8.5.1      Operational fundamentals                                                                                B       B        -

A4.8.5.2      Operational check                                                                                       -       -        -

A4.8.5.3      Inspect system components                                                                               -       -        -

A4.8.5.4      REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.8.5.4.1    Ignition exciters                                                                                       -       -        -

A4.8.5.4.2    Spark igniters                         *                                                               2b       -        -

A4.8.6        ENGINE STARTING SYSTEM

A4.8.6.1      Operational fundamentals                                                                                B       -        -

A4.8.6.2      Operational check                                                                                       -       -        -

A4.8.6.3      Inspect system components                                                                               -       -        -

A4.8.6.4      REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.8.6.4.1    Engine starter                         *                                                               2b       -        -

A4.8.6.4.2    EAPS/start control valve               *                                                                -       -        -
A4.8.7        ENGINE BLEED AIR AND INFRARED
              SUPPRESSOR SYSTEM (IRS)

A4.8.7.1      Operational fundamentals                                                                                B       B        -




                                                                 73                                                       Attachment 4
                                      CV-22 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                           2. Core Tasks          3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                               To Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information
                                                                                                                               Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                  B          C        A         B         C       D        E        A        B        C
                                                                                                                                3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level Level       Level
                                                              5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier (1)        (2)      (2)
                                                                                   Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A4.8.7.2      Operational check                                                                                                   -       -        -

A4.8.7.3      Inspect system components                                                                                           -       -        -

A4.8.7.4      Isolate system malfunctions                                                                                         -       -        -

A4.8.7.5      REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.8.7.5.1    Anti-ice valve                                     *                                                                -       -        -

A4.8.7.5.2    IRS panels                                         *                                                                -       -        -

A4.8.7.5.3    IRS centerbody                                     *                                                                -       -        -

A4.8.7.5.4    Transition duct                                                                                                     -       -        -

A4.8.7.5.5    Coanda deflector nozzle                                                                                             -       -        -

A4.8.7.5.6    Coanda tubing                                                                                                       -       -        -

A4.8.7.5.7    Coanda valve                                       *                                                               2b       -        -

A4.8.7.5.8    Acceleration bleed air control solenoid valve                                                                       -       -        -

A4.8.7.5.9    Tailpipe                                                                                                            -       -        -

A4.8.7.5.10   Acceleration Bleed-air Control (ABC) valve                                                                         2b       -        -

A4.8.8        ENGINE OIL SYSTEM

A4.8.8.1      Operational fundamentals                                                                                            B       B        -

A4.8.8.2      Operational check                                                                                                   -       -        -

A4.8.8.3      Service/Drain engine oil                           *                                                                b       -        -

A4.8.8.4      Inspect system components                                                                                           -       -        -

A4.8.8.5      REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.8.8.5.1    Oil tank                                                                                                            -       -        -

A4.8.8.5.2    Oil pump                                                                                                            -       -        -

A4.8.8.5.3    Oil conditioning unit                                                                                               -       -        -

A4.8.8.5.4    Air/Oil separator                                                                                                   -       -        -

A4.8.8.5.5    Magnetic plug and debris sensor                    *                                                                -       -        -




                                                                            74                                                        Attachment 4
                                      CV-22 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                 2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                   To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information
                                                                                                                   Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      B            C      A         B         C       D        E        A        B        C
                                                                                                                    3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                    Level Level       Level
                                                  5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier (1)        (2)      (2)
                                                                       Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A4.8.8.5.6    Oil filters                                                                                             -       -        -

A4.8.9        AUXILIARY POWER UNIT (APU)

A4.8.9.1      Operational fundamentals                                                                                B       B        -

A4.8.9.2      Operate APU                                                                                             b       -        -

A4.8.9.3      Service/Drain APU                      *                                                                b       -        -

A4.8.9.4      Inspect system components                                                                               -       -        -

A4.8.9.5      Isolate malfunctions                                                                                    -       -        -

A4.8.9.6      REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.8.9.6.1    APU                                    *                                                               2b       -        -

A4.8.9.6.2    Mount tube assemblies                                                                                   -       -        -

A4.8.9.6.3    Gimbal assembly                                                                                         -       -        -

A4.8.9.6.4    Tailpipe                                                                                                -       -        -

A4.8.9.6.5    Igniter                                                                                                2b       -        -

A4.8.9.6.6    Exciter                                                                                                2b       -        -

A4.8.9.6.7    Starter motor                                                                                           -       -        -

A4.8.9.6.8    Thermocouple                                                                                            -       -        -

A4.8.9.6.9    Speed sensors                                                                                           -       -        -

A4.8.9.6.10   Event monitor unit                                                                                      -       -        -

A4.8.9.6.11   400 PSID relief valve                                                                                   -       -        -

A4.8.9.6.12   Filters                                *                                                                -       -        -

A4.8.9.6.13   Pressure switches                                                                                       -       -        -

A4.8.9.6.14   Differential pressure valve                                                                             -       -        -

A4.8.9.6.15   Magnetic plug and chip detector        *                                                                -       -        -

A4.8.9.6.16   APU oil cooler assemblies                                                                               -       -        -

A4.8.9.6.17   APU fuel nozzles                                                                                        -       -        -




                                                                 75                                                       Attachment 4
                                       CV-22 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                       2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                         To Indicate
                                                                                                                         Training/Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            B            C      A         B         C       D        E        A        B        C
                                                                                                                          3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                          Level Level       Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier (1)        (2)      (2)
                                                                             Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A4.8.9.6.18   APU fuel control assembly                                                                                     -       -        -

A4.8.9.6.19   APU fuel block assembly                                                                                       -       -        -

A4.8.9.6.20   APU gearbox oil level switch                                                                                  -       -        -

A4.8.9.6.21   APU clutch servo valve assembly/filter       *                                                               2b       -        -

A4.8.9.6.22   Fuel manifold                                                                                                 -       -        -

A4.8.9.6.23   Oil temperature sensor                                                                                        -       -        -

A4.8.9.6.24   Pump unloading valve                                                                                          -       -        -
A4.9          FUEL SYSTEM
              TR: APPLICABLE IETM
A4.9.1        Operational fundamentals                                                                                      B       B        -

A4.9.2        Operational check                                                                                             -       -        -

A4.9.3        Inspect system components                                                                                     -       -        -

A4.9.4        Isolate malfunctions                                                                                          -       -        -

A4.9.5        REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.9.5.1      Ground refuel/defuel panel                                                                                    -       -        -

A4.9.5.2      Mission auxiliary tank                       *                                                                b       -        -

A4.9.5.3      Sponson boost pump                                                                                            -       -        -

A4.9.5.4      Suction lift pump                                                                                             -       -        -

A4.9.5.5      Fuel lines                                                                                                    -       -        -

A4.9.5.6      Breakaway valve                                                                                               -       -        -

A4.9.5.7      Shutoff valve                                                                                                 -       -        -

A4.9.6        IN-FLIGHT REFUELING SYSTEM

A4.9.6.1      Operational fundamentals                                                                                      B       B        -

A4.9.6.2      Operational check                                                                                             -       -        -

A4.9.6.3      Inspect system components                                                                                     -       -        -

A4.9.6.4      Isolate malfunctions                                                                                          -       -        -




                                                                       76                                                       Attachment 4
                                      CV-22 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                 2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                   To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information
                                                                                                                   Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      B            C      A         B         C       D        E        A        B        C
                                                                                                                    3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                    Level Level       Level
                                                  5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier (1)        (2)      (2)
                                                                       Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A4.9.6.5      REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.9.6.5.1    Probe assembly                                                                                          -       -        -

A4.9.6.5.2    Probe components                                                                                        -       -        -
A4.10         AIRFRAME
              TR: APPLICABLE IETM

A4.10.1       AIRFRAME INSPECTIONS

A4.10.1.1     Aircraft skin and structure                                                                             a       A        -

A4.10.1.2     Windows                                                                                                 a       A        -

A4.10.1.3     Restraint harnesses                                                                                     a       A        -

A4.10.1.4     Seat assemblies                                                                                         a       A        -

A4.10.1.5     Identify composite damage                                                                               a       A        -

A4.10.2       REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.10.2.1     FLIGHT AND PASSENGER CREW
              COMPARTMENT ASSEMBLIES AND
              COMPONENTS

A4.10.2.1.1   Pilot/Co-pilot seat                                                                                     b       -        -

A4.10.2.1.2   Flight engineer seat                                                                                    -       -        -

A4.10.2.1.3   Seat restraint assemblies                                                                              2b       -        -

A4.10.2.1.4   Panels                                                                                                  -       -        -

A4.10.2.1.5   Cabin seats                                                                                             b       -        -

A4.10.2.1.6   Cabin equipment and furnishings                                                                         -       -        -

A4.10.2.2     WINDOWS, DOORS, AND CANOPIES

A4.10.2.2.1   Windshields                                                                                             b       -        -

A4.10.2.2.2   Side windows                                                                                            b       -        -

A4.10.2.2.3   Chin windows                                                                                            -       -        -

A4.10.2.2.4   Overhead canopies                                                                                       -       -        -

A4.10.2.2.5   Crew steps and door                                                                                     -       -        -

A4.10.2.2.6   Cockpit door                                                                                            -       -        -




                                                                 77                                                       Attachment 4
                                        CV-22 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                       2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                         To Indicate
                                                                                                                         Training/Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            B            C      A         B         C       D        E        A        B        C
                                                                                                                          3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                          Level Level       Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier (1)        (2)      (2)
                                                                             Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A4.10.2.2.7   Multi mode radar fairing                                                                                      -       -        -

A4.10.2.2.8   Cabin floor panels                           *                                                                -       -        -

A4.10.2.3     EXTERIOR

A4.10.2.3.1   Ramp assembly                                                                                                 -       -        -

A4.10.2.3.2   Ramp overhead door assembly                                                                                   b       -        -

A4.10.2.3.3   Panels                                       *                                                                2b      -        -

A4.10.2.3.4   Nacelle structures                                                                                            -       -        -

A4.10.2.3.5   Elevator                                                                                                      b       -        -

A4.10.2.3.6   Rudder                                       *                                                                2b      B        -

A4.10.2.3.7   Flaperons                                                                                                     -       B        -

A4.11         FLIGHT CONTROLS
              TR: APPLICABLE IETM

A4.11.1       Operational fundamentals                                                                                      B       B        -

A4.11.2       Rig/Adjust                                                                                                    -       -        -

A4.11.3       Inspect system components                                                                                     -       -        -

A4.11.4       Perform operational check                                                                                     -       -        -

A4.11.5       Isolate malfunctions                                                                                          -       -        -

A4.11.6       REMOVE AND INSTALL

A4.11.6.1     Thrust control lever                                                                                          -       -        -

A4.11.6.2     Cyclic stick                                                                                                  -       -        -

A4.11.6.3     Interconnecting linkage and bellcranks                                                                        -       -        -

A4.11.6.4     Lateral mass balance weight                                                                                   -       -        -

A4.11.6.5     Yaw pedals                                                                                                    -       -        -
A4.12         AEROSPACE GROUND EQUIPMENT
              TR: AFOSH STD 91-100; TOS 35A2 SERIES
              AND 35A4 SERIES AS APPLICABLE
A4.12.1       A/M32A-95 GAS TURBINE
              COMPRESSORS

A4.12.1.1     Purpose and description                                                                                       A       -        -




                                                                       78                                                        Attachment 4
                                        CV-22 QUALITATIVE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                       2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                                         To Indicate
                                                                                                                         Training/Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Note)
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            B            C      A         B         C       D        E        A        B        C
                                                                                                                          3 Skill 5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                          Level Level       Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level    Tng     Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier (1)        (2)      (2)
                                                                             Start Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course CDC         CDC

A4.12.1.2     Perform pre-use inspection and operate                                                                        -       -        -
A4.12.2       GASEOUS OXYGEN SERVICING
              EQUIPMENT

A4.12.2.1     Purpose and description                                                                                       A       -        -

A4.12.2.2     Perform pre-use inspection and operate                                                                        -       -        -




                                                                       79                                                       Attachment 4
This Page Intentionally Left Blank




                80                   Attachment 4
1. Tasks                                                                                             4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                                     To Indicate
                                                                                                     Training/Information
                                                                                                     Provided
                                                                                                        A        B        C
Knowledge And Technical References                                                                   3-Skill 5-Skill    7-Skill
                                                                                                     Level Level        Level
                                                                                                                             (2)
                                                                                                       (1)      (1)   (1)     C
                                                                                                      Crs      CDC Crs        D
                                                                                                                              C
NOTE 1: Columns 2 and 3 are deleted from this STS because all items are SUBJECT KNOWLEDGE LEVEL only and require
        no certification.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: This attachment is to be used in conjunction with other attachments in applicable CFETPs.
NOTE 4: Personnel must complete CDC requirements on all MDSs/attachments.
NOTE 5: This attachment is to be used as a correlation document for the 2AX7X 7-level Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman
      CDCs.
AA.1.        MAINTENANCE PHILOSOPHY AND POLICY
AA.1.1.     Aircraft and Equipment Readiness
                                                                                                                             A
            TR: AFI 21-101
AA.1.2.     Maintenance Concept
                                                                                                                             A
            TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-129
AA.1.3.     Reliability and Maintainability (R&M)
                                                                                                                             A
            TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-118 and TO 00-35D-54
AA.1.4.     Operating Instructions (OI)
                                                                                                                             A
            TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 33-360
AA.1.5.     Maintenance Information Systems (MIS)
                                                                                                                             B
            TR: AFCSM 21-556 Volume 2, AFI 21-101, AFI 21-116, and TO 00-20-2
AA.1.6.     Maintenance Metrics
                                                                                                                             A
            TR: AFI 21-103 and AFTTP 3-3
AA.1.7.     Maintenance Repair Priorities
                                                                                                                             A
            TR: AFI 21-101
AA.1.8.     Historical Aircraft and Equipment Records
                                                                                                                             A
            TR: AFI 21-101 and TO 00-20-1
AA.2.        MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION KEY LEADER RESPONSIBILITIES
AA.2.1.     Wing Commander (WG/CC)
                                                                                                                             A
            TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
AA.2.2.     Wing Vice Commander (WG/CV)
                                                                                                                             A
            TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
AA.2.3.     Maintenance Group Commander (MXG/CC)
                                                                                                                             A
            TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
AA.2.4.     Maintenance Group Deputy Commander (MXG/CD)
                                                                                                                             A
            TR: AFI 21-101
AA.2.5.     MXG Superintendent (SUPT)
                                                                                                                             A
            TR: AFI 21-101
AA.2.6.     Squadron Commander (SQ/CC)
                                                                                                                             A
            TR: AFI 21-101
AA.2.7.     Maintenance Operations Officer (MOO)/Maintenance Superintendent (MX SUPT)
                                                                                                                             A
            TR: AFI 21-101


                                                           81
1. Tasks                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                   To Indicate
                                                                   Training/Information
                                                                   Provided
                                                                      A        B        C
Knowledge And Technical References                                 3-Skill 5-Skill    7-Skill
                                                                   Level Level        Level
                                                                                           (2)
                                                                     (1)      (1)   (1)     C
                                                                    Crs      CDC Crs        D
                                                                                            C
AA.2.8.    Flight Commander/Flight Chief
                                                                                           A
           TR: AFI 21-101
AA.2.9.    AMU OIC/Superintendent (SUPT)
                                                                                           A
           TR: AFI 21-101
AA.2.10.   Section NCOIC/Chief
                                                                                           B
           TR: AFI 21-101
AA.2.11.   Production Superintendent (Pro Super)
                                                                                           A
           TR: AFI 21-101
AA.3.      FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS SQUADRON (MOS)
AA.3.1.    Maintenance Operations Flight (MOF)
                                                                                           A
           TR: AFI 21-101
AA.3.2.    Maintenance Training Flight (MTF)
                                                                                           A
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 36-2232
AA.3.3.    Programs and Resources Flight
                                                                                           A
           TR: AFI 21-101
AA.4.      FUNCTIONS OF AIRCRAFT/HELICOPTER MAINTENANCE SQUADRON
           (AMXS/HMXS)
AA.4.1.    Aircraft Maintenance Unit (AMU)
                                                                                           A
           TR: AFI 21-101
AA.4.2.    Flightline Expediter
                                                                                           A
           TR: AFI 21-101
AA.4.3.    Aircrew and Maintenance Debrief Section
                                                                                           A
           TR: AFI 21-101
AA.4.4.    Aircraft Section
                                                                                           A
           TR: AFI 21-101
AA.4.5.    Specialist Section
                                                                                           A
           TR: AFI 21-101
AA.4.6.    Weapons Section
                                                                                           A
           TR: AFI 21-101
AA.4.7.    Support Section
                                                                                           A
           TR: AFI 21-101
AA.5.      FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE SQUADRON (MXS)
AA.5.1.    Accessories Flight
                                                                                           A
           TR: AFI 21-101
AA.5.2.    Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) Flight
                                                                                           A
           TR: AFI 21-101
AA.5.3.    Armament Flight
                                                                                           A
           TR: AFI 21-101
AA.5.4.    Avionics Flight
                                                                                           A
           TR: AFI 21-101



                                                     82
1. Tasks                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                          To Indicate
                                                                                          Training/Information
                                                                                          Provided
                                                                                             A        B        C
Knowledge And Technical References                                                        3-Skill 5-Skill    7-Skill
                                                                                          Level Level        Level
                                                                                                                  (2)
                                                                                            (1)      (1)   (1)     C
                                                                                           Crs      CDC Crs        D
                                                                                                                   C
AA.5.5.     Fabrication Flight
                                                                                                                  A
            TR: AFI 21-101
AA.5.6.     Maintenance Flight
                                                                                                                  A
            TR: AFI 21-101
AA.5.7.     Munitions Flight
                                                                                                                  A
            TR: AFI 21-101
AA.5.8.     Propulsion Flight
                                                                                                                  A
            TR: AFI 21-101
AA.5.9.     Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE) Flight
                                                                                                                  A
            TR: AFI 21-101
AA.6.       MAINTENANCE TRAINING
AA.6.1      Types of Training
                                                                                                                  A
            TR: AFI 36-2232 and the ETCA site located at: https://etca.randolph.af.mil/
AA.6.2.     Training Documentation
                                                                                                                  A
            TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2201 and AFI 36-2232
AA.6.3.     Training Business Area (TBA)
                                                                                                                  B
            TR: https://www.my.af.mil/imdsltpa/IMDSTWeb/ActionServlet
AA.6.4.     Special Certification Rosters
                                                                                                                  A
            TR: AFI 21-101
AA.6.5.     Maintenance Qualification Program (MQP)
                                                                                                                  A
            TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2232 and AFPD 10-9
AA.6.6.     Training Management
            TR: AFI 36-2201, AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101 and AETCI 36-2601
AA.6.6.1.   Training Forecast                                                                                     A
AA.6.6.2.   Training Request                                                                                      A
AA.6.6.3.   Master Training Plan                                                                                  A
AA.7.       PERSONNEL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
AA.7.1.     Unit Manpower Document (UMD) and Unit Personnel Manpower Roster (UPMR)
                                                                                                                  A
            TR: AFI 36-2110, AFI 38-201 and AFTTP 3-3
AA.7.2.     Personnel Utilization
                                                                                                                  A
            TR: AFI 21-101
AA.8.       MAINTENANCE SUPPLY
AA.8.1.     Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS) Supply Support
                                                                                                                  A
            TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 (Vol. 1) and AFTTP 3-3
AA.8.2.     Readiness Spares Packages
                                                                                                                  A
            TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and AFTTP 3-3
AA.8.3.     Consumables Management
                                                                                                                  A
            TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and AFTTP 3-3



                                                          83
1. Tasks                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                                         To Indicate
                                                                                         Training/Information
                                                                                         Provided
                                                                                            A        B        C
Knowledge And Technical References                                                       3-Skill 5-Skill    7-Skill
                                                                                         Level Level        Level
                                                                                                                 (2)
                                                                                           (1)      (1)   (1)     C
                                                                                          Crs      CDC Crs        D
                                                                                                                  C
AA.8.4.   Equipment Items
                                                                                                                 A
          TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and AFMAN 23-220
AA.8.5.   Supply Assets Requiring Functional Check, Calibration, or Operational Flight
Programming                                                                                                      A
          TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and TO 00-20-3
AA.8.6.   Precious Metals Recovery Program
                                                                                                                 A
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.8.7.   Supply Points
                                                                                                                 A
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.8.8.   Local Manufacture
                                                                                                                 A
          TR: AFI 21-101
AA.8.9.   Repair Cycle Assets
                                                                                                                 A
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.8.10. Supply Management Products
                                                                                                                 A
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.8.11. Tail Number Bins (TNB)
                                                                                                                 A
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.8.12. Maintenance Repair/Supply Delivery Priorities
                                                                                                                 A
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.8.13. Classified Assets
                                                                                                                 A
          TR: AFI 21-101, AFJI 31-102, TO 00-5-1 and TO 00-20-1
AA.8.14. Hazardous Materials
                                                                                                                 A
          TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 32-7086 and AFI 90-821
AA.8.15. Supply Deficiency and Discrepancy Reporting
                                                                                                                 B
          TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and TO 00-35D-54
AA.8.16. Special Handling of Supply Assets Containing Hazardous Materials
                                                                                                                 A
          TR: AFI 24-203, AFI 32-7086, AFMAN 23-110, TO 42B2-1-3, and TO 6J3-1-1
AA8.17.   Maintenance Supply Liaison
                                                                                                                 A
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.9.1.   Technical Orders Distribution Process
                                                                                                                 A
          TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 63-101, AFTTP 3-3 and TO 00-5-1
AA.9.2.   Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTO)
                                                                                                                 A
          TR: TO 00-5-15
AA.9.3.   Technical Order Change Process
                                                                                                                 A
          TR: AFI 21-303
AA.9.4.   Technical Order Waivers
                                                                                                                 A
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-303
AA.10.     MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS AND PROGRAMS
AA.10.1.   Cannibalization Program
                                                                                                                 A
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-3
AA.10.2.   Restricted Maintenance Areas
                                                                                                                 A
           TR: AFI 21-101

                                                       84
1. Tasks                                                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                             To Indicate
                                                                             Training/Information
                                                                             Provided
                                                                                A        B        C
Knowledge And Technical References                                           3-Skill 5-Skill    7-Skill
                                                                             Level Level        Level
                                                                                                     (2)
                                                                               (1)      (1)   (1)     C
                                                                              Crs      CDC Crs        D
                                                                                                      C
AA.10.3.   Red Ball Maintenance
                                                                                                     A
           TR: AFI 21-101
AA.10.4. Aircraft/Equipment Impoundment Program
                                                                                                     A
           TR: AFI 21-101
AA.10.5. Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Program
                                                                                                     A
           TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2232 and AFTTP 3-3
AA.10.6. Dropped Object Prevention (DOP) Program
                                                                                                     A
           TR: AFI 21-101
AA.10.7. Tool Management
                                                                                                     A
           TR: AFI 21-101
AA.10.8. Tool Accountability
                                                                                                     A
           TR: AFI 21-101
AA.10.8.1. Marking and Tool Identification
                                                                                                     A
           TR: AFI 21-101
AA.10.8.2 Locally Manufactured, Developed, or Modified Tools and Equipment
                                                                                                     A
           TR: AFI 21-101
AA.10.8.3. Lost Item/Tool Procedures
                                                                                                     A
           TR: AFI 21-101
AA.10.9. Maintenance Recovery Team
                                                                                                     A
           TR: AFI 21-101
AA.11.     QUALITY ASSURANCE (QA) PROGRAM
AA.11.1.   Maintenance Standardization and Evaluation Program (MSEP)
                                                                                                     A
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-3
AA.11.2.   QA Product Improvement Program
                                                                                                     A
           TR: AFI 21-101
AA.11.3    Configuration Management (CM) and Modification Management
                                                                                                     A
           TR: AFI 21-101




                                                      85
