 DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                   CFETP 6F0X1
 Headquarters US Air Force                                       Parts I and II
 Washington, DC 20330-1030                                    19 January 2012




                               AFSC 6F0X1

          FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND COMPTROLLER

                      CAREER FIELD EDUCATION

                          AND TRAINING PLAN




ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing
website at www.e-publishing .af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
SUMMARY OF CHANGES
Major publication changes include: Mandated completion of Financial Management Principles and
Concepts and mandatory attendance at the Financial Management Silver Flag course. Course
completions should be applied IAW with the applicable SAF/FM memorandums.
                           CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND COMPTROLLER
                                          AFSC 6F0X1

                                                            Table of Contents

PART I

Preface..............................................................................................................................................1

Abbreviations/Terms Explained ......................................................................................................2

Section A--General Information ......................................................................................................4
       Purpose
       Use
       Coordination and Approval
       Interim CFETP Changes

Section B--Career Field Progression and Information.....................................................................5
       Specialty Description
       Skill/Career Progression
              Apprentice (3) Level
              Journeyman (5) Level
              Craftsman (7) Level
              Superintendent (9) Level
       Training Decisions
       Community College of the Air Force
       6F0XX Education and Career Development Plan

Section C--Skill Level Training Requirements..............................................................................15
       Purpose
       Training Requirements
              Apprentice Level Training
              Journeyman Level Training
              Craftsman Level Training
              Superintendent Level Training
       Financial Management Formal Upgrade Program

Section D--Resource Constraint ....................................................................................................19
       Purpose
       Apprentice Level Training
       Five-Level Training
       Seven-Level Training

Section E--Transitional Training Guide ........................................................................... (not used)



i
PART II

Section A--Specialty Training Standard ........................................................................................20
       Implementation
       Purpose
       Recommendations

Section B--Course Objective List ..................................................................................... (not used)

Section C--Support Material ............................................................................................. (not used)

Section D--Training Course Index .................................................................................... (not used)

Section E--MAJCOM Unique Requirements ................................................................... (not used)

Section F--(Not Used) ...................................................................................................... (not used)




OPR: 335 TRS/TRR
Certified by: CMSgt Jesse Stirling (SAF/FM)
Supersedes: CFETP 6F0XXC1, 31 March 2008, Change 1, 02 Jun 08 and Change 2, 09 Aug 10
Number of Printed Pages: 54




ii
           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND COMPTROLLER SPECIALTY
                              AFSC 6F0XX
               CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

PART I

Preface

1. Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). This Career Field Education and
Training Plan is a comprehensive education and training document identifying life-cycle
education and training requirements, training support resources, and the minimum core task
requirements for this specialty. The CFETP will provide personnel a clear career path to success
and instill rigor in all aspects of career field training.

NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions may use Part II to support duty position
qualification training.

2. CFETP Parts. The CFETP consists of two parts and supervisors will plan, manage, and
control training within this specialty using both parts of the plan.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty.

󲐀 Section A: Explains how everyone will use the plan.

󲐀 Section B: Identifies career field progression information, duties and responsibilities, training
strategies, and career field path.

󲐀 Section C: Associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education,
experience, training, and other).

󲐀 Section D: Indicates resource constraints. Some examples are funds, manpower, equipment,
facilities.

󲐀 Section E: Identifies transition training guide requirements for SSgt through MSgt.

2.2. Part II will be used by unit level supervisors and trainers to identify, plan, and conduct
training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.

󲐀 Section A: Identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and includes duties, tasks,
technical references to support training, Air Education and Training Command (AETC)
conducted training, core task and correspondence course requirements.

󲐀 Section B: Contains the course objective list and training standards which supervisors will use
to determine if Airman satisfied training requirements.




1
󲐀 Section C: Identifies available support materials. An example is a Qualification Training
Package (QTP) which may be developed to support proficiency training.

󲐀 Section D: Identifies a training course index supervisors can use to determine resources
available to support training. Included here are both mandatory and optional courses.

󲐀 Section E: Identifies MAJCOM unique training requirements supervisors can use to determine
additional training required for the associated qualification needs.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive
effective and efficient training at the appropriate points in their career. This plan will enable us to
effectively train today's work force.

ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED:

Advanced Training (AT). Formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in one or
more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance
their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career Airmen at the advanced level of
the AFS.

Air Force Training Record (AFTR). An internet application that is accessible from any .mil or
.com location via Advanced Distributed Learning System. AFTR is designed to track career
field management for all Active Duty, Air Force Reserve, and Air National Guard personnel.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard/Command Job Qualification Standard
(AFJQS/CJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a particular job type or duty position.
Supervisors use the AFJQS/CJQS to document task qualifications. The tasks on AFJQS/CJQS
are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive,
multipurpose document covering the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field.

Core Task. Tasks the Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) identify as minimum
qualification requirements for everyone within an AFSC, regardless of duty position.
Additionally, core tasks are any tasks identified by higher headquarters for personnel to perform
during deployments, contingencies, or wartime. Core tasks may be specified for a particular skill
level or in general across the AFSC. Guidance for using core tasks can be found in the applicable
CFETP narrative.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication derived from initial and advanced skills course
training standards. Identifies the tasks and knowledge requirements and respective standards to
achieve a 3-/7-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to assist in conducting
graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video, or
other necessary means to supplement training.

2
Field Technical Training (Type 4). Special or regular on-site training conducted by a field
training detachment (FTD) or by a mobile training team.

Initial Skills Training. A formal in-resident course that results in award of the 3-skill level.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly and orderly process for
developing, validating, and reviewing instructional programs that ensures personnel are taught
the knowledge and skills essential for successful job performance.

Occupational Survey Report (OSR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational
survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify
personnel in both upgrade (skill level award) and job qualification (duty position certification)
training.

Qualification Training (QT). Hands-on performance training designed to qualify personnel in a
specific position. This training occurs both during and after upgrade training to maintain up-to-
date qualifications.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional package designed for use at the unit to
qualify, or aid qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of equipment. It may be
printed, computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and
equipment that preclude desired training from being delivered.

Skills Training. A formal course that results in the award of a skill level.

Specialty Training. A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (on-the-
job) to qualify and upgrade Airman in the award of a skill level.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes skills and
knowledge that Airman in a particular Air Force specialty needs on the job. It further serves as a
contract between the Air Education and Training Command and the user to show the overall
training requirements for an Air Force specialty code that the formal schools teach.

Standard. An established and defined practice or procedure used in measuring results.

Total Force. All collective Air Force components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian elements)
of the United States Air Force.

Training Requirements Analysis. A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFS to be
included in the training decision process.



3
Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-
the-job, field training, mobile training team, self-study etc.).

Upgrade Training (UGT). Training that leads to the award of a higher skill level.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum of the career field manager, MAJCOM
functional managers, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training personnel that
determines career ladder training requirements.

Section A – General Information

1. Purpose. This CFETP provides the information necessary for Air Force Career Field
Managers (AFCFM), MAJCOM Functional Managers (MFM), commanders, training managers,
supervisors and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective and efficient career
field training program. The plan outlines the training individuals in this AFS should receive in
order to develop and progress throughout their career. This plan identifies initial skills, upgrade,
qualification, advanced and proficiency training. Initial skills training is the AFS specific training
an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon retraining into this specialty for
award of the 3-skill level. Normally, this training is conducted by AETC at one of the technical
training centers. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification
requirements, and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, 9-
skill level. Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify
an Airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the
upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills and knowledge
required to do the job. Advanced training is formal specialty training used for selected Airman.
Proficiency training is additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training
courses, or on-the-job training provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge
beyond the minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP has several purposes. Some are:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate career field training
programs. It’s also used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an
individual's career.

1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in this AFS and
recommends education and training throughout each phase of an individual's career.

1.3. Lists training courses available in this AFS, identifies sources of training, and the training
delivery method.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired career
field training process.

2. Uses. This plan will be used by MFMs, superintendents and supervisors at all levels to ensure
comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.
Each enlisted financial manager should have a copy of this plan for his or her personal reference.



4
2.1. AETC training personnel will develop or revise formal resident, non-resident, field and
exportable training based on requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of
the CFETP. They also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining
resources needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial,
upgrade, and proficiency requirements. Identified training requirements can be satisfied through
OJT, resident training, contract training, or exportable courses. MAJCOM developed training to
support this AFSC must be identified for inclusion into this training plan.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan.
The lists of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority. The AFCFM will
initiate an annual review of this document to ensure currency and accuracy. MAJCOM
representatives and AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field
training requirements. Using the list of courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.

4. Interim CFETP Changes. The AFCFM can approve CFETP changes at any time. Messages,
e-mails, or other documentation that identifies AFCFM approved changes will serve as the
official CFETP supplement until the next formal CFETP revision.

Section B - Career Field Progression and Information

5. Specialty Description. Financial Management and Comptroller (Helper AFSC 6F011,
Apprentice AFSC 6F031, Journeyman AFSC 6F051, Craftsman AFSC 6F071, Superintendent
AFSC 6F091, CEM Code 6F000)

5.1. Specialty Summary.

5.1.1. Financial Management and Comptroller Apprentice, AFSC 6F031: Performs financial
management activities. Provides customer service, maintains financial records for pay and travel
transactions. Maintains accounting records and prepares reports. Determines fund availability
and propriety of claims. Accounts for and safeguards cash, checks, and other negotiable
instruments. Prepares commitments, obligations, payments and collections. Assists in developing
and compiling financial data for preparation of budgets, budget execution plans and reports, and
narrative justifications. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 541.

5.1.2. Financial Management and Comptroller Journeyman, AFSC 6F051: Supervises and
performs financial management and comptroller decision support activities. Trains for
deployment operations and provides financial management support to the deployed commander
and personnel. Provides customer service. Maintains financial records for pay and travel
transactions. Maintains accounting records and prepares reports. Determines fund availability
and propriety of claims. Prepares and processes commitments, obligations, payments and
collections. Accounts for and safeguards cash, checks, and other negotiable instruments.
Processes commitments and obligations, payments, and collections. Serves as the financial

5
advisor to commanders and resource managers. Compiles, analyzes, and summarizes data.
Prepares and executes budget execution plans. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 541.

5.1.3. Financial Management and Comptroller Craftsman, AFSC 6F071: Supervises and
manages financial management and comptroller decision support activities. Trains for
deployment operations and provides financial management support to the deployed commander
and personnel. Provides customer service. Determines fund availability and propriety of claims.
Processes commitments, obligations, payments and collections. Maintains accounting records
and reviews financial reports. Accounts for and safeguards cash, checks, vouchers, and other
negotiable instruments. Serves as the financial advisor to commanders and resource managers.
Compiles, analyzes, and summarizes data. Prepares and executes budget execution plans.
Performs audits and implements fraud prevention measures. Related DoD Occupational
Subgroup: 541.

5.1.4. Financial Management and Comptroller Superintendent, AFSC 6F091/Chief Enlisted
Manager (CEM) Code 6F000: Oversees financial management and comptroller decision support
operations and training. Prepares personnel for deployment operations and provides financial
management support to the deployed commander and personnel. Additionally, the
superintendent acts as a liaison to the FM MAJCOM Functional Manager on all enlisted issues
along with the wing command chief on functional topics and enlisted issues affecting unit
personnel.
Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 541.

5.2. Duties and Responsibilities.

5.2.1. Financial Management and Comptroller Apprentice, AFSC 6F031:

5.2.1.1. Acquires proficiency in financial management war fighting and general military skills.

5.2.1.2. Provides customer service. Interacts and coordinates with organizations on financial
matters. Interprets financial directives. Prepares, verifies, computes and processes pay
transactions. Processes and verifies travel claims, estimates travel costs, determines fund
availability, and performs follow-up on outstanding travel orders.

5.2.1.3. Processes financial transactions. Performs follow-up on commitments, outstanding
obligations, and processes disbursement and collection transactions. Disburses, collects, and
safeguards cash, negotiable instruments and certified vouchers. Prepares accountability records
and reports.

5.2.1.4. Records, reconciles, and verifies entries into automated systems based on accounting
documents. Processes payment and collection vouchers. Maintains appropriated funds
accounting records and files.

5.2.1.5. Provides customer service and financial analysis for various organizations, vendors and
the Air Force Financial Services Center. Reconciles funding authorities with accounting records.
Prepares, and verifies financial reports.

6
5.2.1.6. Assists in developing and compiling factors for planning, programming and budgeting.
Assists in the preparation of budgets, execution plans, and reports. Assists in the preparation of
narrative justifications to support financial requirements.

5.2.2. Financial Management and Comptroller Journeyman, AFSC 6F051:

5.2.2.1. Maintains proficiency and trains others in financial management contingency/war
fighting and general military skills.

5.2.2.2. Provides customer service. Advises, interacts and coordinates with organizations on
financial matters. Interprets financial directives. Prepares, verifies, computes, processes, and
audits pay transactions. Processes, verifies, and audits travel claims, estimates travel costs,
determines fund availability, and performs follow-up on outstanding travel orders for travelers.

5.2.2.3. Processes financial transactions. Performs follow-up on commitments, outstanding
obligations, and processes disbursement and collection transactions. Disburses, collects, and
safeguards cash, negotiable instruments and certified vouchers. Prepares accountability records
and reports.

5.2.2.4. Determines propriety of funding and certifies fund availability. Records, reconciles, and
verifies entries into automated systems based on accounting documents. Certifies and processes
payment and collection vouchers. Maintains appropriated funds accounting records and files.
Schedules, prepares, verifies, and submits financial reports.

5.2.2.5. Provides customer service and financial analysis for various organizations, vendors and
the Air Force Financial Services Center. Reconciles funding authorities with accounting records.

5.2.2.6. Analyzes accounting reports and financial data to identify trends for evaluating
effectiveness and efficiency of Air Force activities. Develops and compiles factors for improved
planning, programming and budgeting. Prepares budgets, execution plans, and reports. Analyzes
financial execution, identifies and explains variances, and prepares narrative justification to
support financial requirements.

5.2.2.8. Reviews financial data for accuracy, and resolves discrepancies. Receives, reconciles,
and distributes funding authorities. Examines funding and reprogramming actions to determine
financial implications. Reviews reimbursement program status.

5.2.2.9. Utilizes financial management decision support techniques to deliver sound financial
advice to all levels of leadership.

5.2.3. Financial Management and Comptroller Craftsman, AFSC 6F071:

5.2.3.1. Maintains proficiency and trains others in financial management contingency/war
fighting and general military skills.



7
5.2.3.2. Plans, organizes, and schedules comptroller activities. Develops instructions, techniques,
and performance standards for operating financial management systems.

5.2.3.3. Establishes internal controls to ensure compliance with directives, laws, and statutes.
Prescribes procedures for jobs not covered by directive or precedent.

5.2.3.4. Provides customer service. Interacts and coordinates with organizations on financial
matters. Interprets and supplements financial directives. Prepares, verifies, computes, processes,
and audits pay transactions. Processes, verifies, and audits travel claims, estimates travel costs,
determines fund availability, and performs follow-up on outstanding travel orders for travelers.

5.2.3.5. Processes financial transactions. Performs follow-up on commitments, outstanding
obligations, and processes disbursement and collection transactions. Disburses, collects, and
safeguards cash, negotiable instruments and certified vouchers. Prepares accountability records
and reports.

5.2.3.6. Determines propriety and certifies fund availability. Records, reconciles, and verifies
entries into automated systems based on accounting documents. Certifies and processes payment
and collection vouchers. Maintains appropriated funds accounting records and files. Schedules,
prepares, verifies, and submits financial reports.

5.2.3.7. Provides customer service and financial analysis for various organizations, vendors and
the Air Force Financial Services Center. Reconciles funding authorities with accounting records.

5.2.3.8. Analyzes accounting reports and financial data to identify trends for evaluating
effectiveness and efficiency of Air Force activities. Develops and compiles factors for improved
planning, programming and budgeting. Prepares budgets, execution plans, and execution reports.
Analyzes financial execution. Identifies and explains variances. Provides budget call instructions
to organizations. Prepares narrative justification to support financial requirements.

5.2.3.9. Reviews financial data for accuracy, and resolves discrepancies. Receives, reconciles,
and distributes funding authorities. Examines funding and reprogramming actions to determine
financial implications. Reviews reimbursement program status.

5.2.3.10. Performs audits and reviews as required by directives. Administers the Air Force
Management Control Program.

5.2.3.11. Utilizes financial management decision support techniques to deliver sound financial
advice to all levels of leadership.

5.2.4. Financial Management and Comptroller Superintendent/Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM),
AFSCs 6F091 and 6F000:

5.2.4.1. Maintains proficiency and trains others in financial management contingency/war
fighting and general military skills.



8
5.2.4.2. Leads, manages, plans, organizes, and directs comptroller operations. Develops related
reports. Improves work methods and procedures for internal control and efficient operation.
Coordinates with units and other activities on matters pertaining to comptroller policies,
procedures, and operations.

5.2.4.3. Inspects, reviews, and examines comptroller activities for operational efficiency and
compliance with established procedures and policies. Takes or recommends corrective action.

5.2.4.4. Studies and develops solutions to problems encountered by operating units in
maintaining accounts, collecting and disbursing funds, paying military and civilian personnel and
commercial accounts, and preparing reports and summary cost data.

6. Career Skill Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to
the superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force's ability to accomplish its
mission. In this career field, all Career Development Courses (CDCs) for upgrade training will
be completed within 12 months of enrollment in the first course. Trainees are required to
complete at least one volume every 30 days. Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve
personnel, also must complete all CDCs within 12 months of enrollment in the first course;
however, they will not be required to complete one volume every 30 days. This ensures adequate
progression towards attainment of the higher skill level. An effective training program requires a
team effort. It is essential that everyone involved in training must do their part to plan, manage,
and conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will
ensure each individual receives viable training at appropriate points in their career.

6.1. Apprentice (3) Level. Financial Management and Comptroller AFSC 6F031:
Initial skills training in this specialty consist of the tasks and knowledge training provided in the
3-skill level in-resident course. Individuals must complete the basic financial management course
to be awarded the 6F031 AFSC. As a 6F031, you may be assigned to any functional area within
base level comptroller organizations or the Air Force Financial Services Center (AFFSC).

6.2. Journeyman (5) Level. Financial Management and Comptroller, AFSC 6F051:
The financial management journeyman is a leader in the making. All STS core tasks and all tasks
listed on the XFFA1 Unit Type Code (UTC) task listing are required to be trained and signed-off
for upgrade to the 5-skill level in addition to job qualification training and completion of the 5-
skill level CDC. The Core Task OJT Guides will be used to train and sign-off core tasks. These
guides are on the AF Portal website, to access the guides select the following: SAF/FM/Enlisted
Matters/Enlisted OJT training/Core Training Files. Job qualification training consists of
completion of duty position task and knowledge areas. Senior Airmen will attend Airman
Leadership School before promotion to Staff Sergeant. Additional knowledge and use of
automated systems is also desirable during this phase of an Airman's career. Active pursuit of an
Associates Degree in Financial Management through the Community College of the Air Force
(CCAF) is highly encouraged.

6.3. Craftsman (7) Level. Financial Management and Comptroller, AFSC 6F071:
Further broadening of our financial warrior and leader continues with the requirements set forth
to obtain this skill level. The breadth of experience widens and the increase in responsibilities

9
grows upon attainment of our financial management 7-skill level. To be upgraded to the 7-skill
level in this specialty, individuals must be re-trained and signed-off on all core tasks, complete
qualification training, the 7-level CDC, and the 7-level craftsman course in-residence. In addition
to this training, individuals must be signed off on all tasks listed on the XFFA2 Unit Type Code
(UTC) task listing. Craftsman personnel may be assigned to any financial management
functional area at base level or a MAJCOM/FOA staff (preferably as a MSgt). TSgt or TSgt
selectees will attend the Non-Commissioned Officer Academy in-residence. MSgt or MSgt
selects should complete SNCOA by correspondence and in-residence. MSgts may attend the
Financial Management Staff Officer Course (FMSOC); Completion of the SNCOA in-residence
or by correspondence, FM Superintendent Course and Associates in Applied Sciences degree
through CCAF are requirements for enlisted attendance at the FMSOC. Completion of an
Associates Degree in Financial Management through CCAF is highly recommended for all FM
Craftsmen. Becoming a Certified Defense Financial Manager (CDFM) is encouraged.
Individuals should pursue a Baccalaureate Degree in a related field.

6.4. Superintendent (9) Level. Financial Management and Comptroller, AFSC 6F091:
By obtaining this skill level, you are achieving a significant step towards the pinnacle of the
enlisted career ladder. For upgrade to the 9-skill level in this specialty, you must be a SMSgt.
Superintendent personnel work as the wing/base level Financial Management and Comptroller
(FM) superintendent. MSgts and SMSgt selectees will attend the USAF Senior
Noncommissioned Officer Academy in-residence. Completion of the Defense Financial
Management & Comptroller School (DFM&CS) will further enhance this financial management
leader’s skills (completion of the SNCOA in-residence and an associates degree through CCAF
are requirements for enlisted attendance at the DFM&CS). FMSOC attendance is prohibited for
CMSgts. Becoming a Certified Defense Financial Manager (CDFM) is encouraged. Individuals
should pursue a Baccalaureate Degree in a related field and certification under the SAF/FM
Professional Development Program.

7. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
complete training requirements for the Financial Management and Comptroller career field. It
includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet the training requirements. The strategy
must be apparent and affordable to reduce duplication of training and eliminate a disjointed
approach to training. A Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) was held in February 2011
to review and discuss STS tasks related to the Financial Management and Comptroller career
field. These U&TW decisions form the basis of the STS items found in Part II, Section A of this
CFETP and are considered necessary training requirements, both during initial skills training and
beyond, to support this AFSC in the future.

7.1. Initial Skills Training. The initial skills course is designed to prepare the graduate to begin
working in any base-level Financial Management and Comptroller organization or the AFFSC.
An outcome of the U&TW includes increased training in Cost Analysis principles based on the
future role of Enlisted FMers.

7.2. 5-Level Upgrade Requirements. Financial Management and Comptroller, AFSC 6F051:
Successful completion of the 5-skill level CDC is required for upgrade. The CDC incorporates
tasks related to all the functional areas within the Financial Management and Comptroller career

10
field. Completion of all core tasks, job qualification training and all tasks listed on the XFFA1
Unit Type Code (UTC) task listing are required for upgrade.

7.3. 7-Level Upgrade Requirements. Financial Management and Comptroller, AFSC 6F071:
The CDC includes tasks related to the Financial Management and Comptroller career field and
successful completion is required for upgrade. The 7-level in-residence course provides financial
managers the skills necessary for deployment to a contingency operation and completion of the
course is required for upgrade. Additionally, completion of all core tasks, job qualification
training and tasks listed on the XFFA2 Unit Type Code (UTC) task listing are required for
upgrade.

7.4. Proficiency Training. Additional knowledge and skill requirements not taught through initial
skills or upgrade training are available through supplemental training courses. Personnel should
take an active interest in obtaining additional training at every opportunity.

8. Community College of the Air Force. Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon completion of Basic
Military training. CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate of Applied Sciences
Degree. Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is encouraged for all.
Individuals desiring to become an AETC Instructor must possess as a minimum and associate
degree or should be actively pursuing an associate degree. Special Duty Assignment requires an
AETC instructor candidate to have a CCAF degree or be within one year of completion (45
semester hours). A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern
Association of Colleges and Schools.

8.3. Degree Requirements: All Airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program. Prior
to completing an associate degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the following requirements
must be met:
Semester Hours
Technical Education ___________________________________________________________24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies _______________________________________6
Physical Education _____________________________________________________________4
General Education _____________________________________________________________15
Program Elective ______________________________________________________________15
Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education
Total _______________________________________________________________________64

8.3.1. Technical Education (24 semester hours). A minimum of 12 semester hours of Technical
Core subjects and courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied from
Technical Core or Technical Elective subjects and courses.

8.3.1.1. Technical Core Subject/Courses include the following with maximum semester hours in
parenthesis: American Society of Military Comptrollers Certified Defense Financial Manager
Certification (6); Business Law (6); Business Mathematics (3); CCAF Internship (18); Financial
Analysis (9); Financial Principles/Management (9); Microcomputer Software Applications (6);
Military Pay & Accounting (12); Principles of Accounting (6); Statistics (3); and Travel
Accounting (3).

11
8.3.1.2. Technical Electives Subject/Courses include the following with maximum semester
hours in parenthesis: Business Finance (3); Computer Science (6); International Finance (3);
Leadership/Management (3); Managerial Communications (3); Money and Banking (6);
Principles of Economics (Micro/Macro) (6); and Principles of Marketing (3).

8.3.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 semester hours). Professional military
education and/or civilian management courses.

8.3.3. Physical Education (4 semester hours). This requirement is satisfied by completion of
Basic Military Training.

8.3.4. General Education (15 semester hours). Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement with
the definitions of applicable General Education subject/courses as provided in the CCAF General
Catalog.

8.3.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours). Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects and courses,
including natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Nine semester hours of
CCAF degree applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be
applied. See the CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied Sciences
degree for this specialty.

8.4. Off-Duty Education. Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is encouraged
for all. Individuals desiring to become an AETC Instructor must possess as a minimum an
associate degree or should be actively pursuing an associate degree. Special Duty Assignment
(SDA) requires an AETC instructor candidate to have a CCAF degree or be within one year of
completion (45 semester hours). A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through
the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.

9. 6F0XX Education and Career Development Plan.

9.1. Career Field Path. The following chart depicts a complete picture of education, training, and
assignment positions through all 6F0XX skill levels. Information outlined in each of these two
figures represents a "snapshot" of the Financial Management and Comptroller career field as of
the publication date of this CFETP. This information should be understood as labeled (e.g.
"average" promotion TIS, "desirable" education status, and possible duty level/assignment) and
not interpreted as AFSC requirements. AFECD, Airman Classification, contains a specialty
summary, duties and responsibilities, and specialty qualifications for all AFSCs.




12
9.2. Enlisted Career Path.
The following table completes the career field path area and presents education, training, and grade mandatory
requirements for all aspects of an AFSC. Together with the figure at paragraph 9.1, this table provides enlisted
financial management and comptroller personnel with a complete, viable path/outline, which, if followed, should
result in a highly successful career in the 6F0XX AFSC.

 Table 9.2. Air Force Enlisted Career Path
                                                      GRADE REQUIREMENTS
 Education and Training                            Average  Earliest High Year Of
 Requirements                             Rank     Sew-On   Sew-On   Tenure (HYT)
 Basic Military Training School
 Apprentice Technical School              Amn      6 months
 (3-Skill Level)                          A1C      10 months
 Upgrade To Journeyman                    Amn
 (5-Skill Level)                          A1C      10 months
 - Minimum 12 months on-the-job           SrA      3 years       28 months       8 years
 training.
 - Minimum 9 months on-the-job
 training for retrainees.
 -Complete appropriate CDC.
 Airman Leadership School                 Trainer
 - Must be a SrA with 48 months time in   - Signed off on tasks to be trained.
 service or be a SSgt                     - Completed the Air Force Training Course
 selectee.                                - Recommended by their supervisor.
 - Resident graduation is a

13
prerequisite for SSgt sew-on (Active Duty
Only).
Upgrade To Craftsman                        SSgt    4.5 years    3 years    15 years
(7-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SSgt.
- Minimum 12 months OJT.
- Minimum 6 months OJT for
retrainees.
- Complete appropriate CDC.
- Attend Craftsman course
Noncommissioned Officer                     TSgt    12.3 years   5 years    20years
Academy
- Must be a TSgt or TSgt selectee.
- Resident graduation is a                  MSgt    16 years     8 years    24 years
prerequisite for MSgt sew-on (Active Duty
Only).
USAF Senior NCO Academy                     SMSgt   19.2 years   11 years   26 years
- Must be a MSgt or SMSgt
select.
- Resident graduation is a
prerequisite for SMSgt sew-on.
(Active Duty Only)



Upgrade to Superintendent                   CMSgt   21.5 years   14 years   30 years
(9 Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SMSgt.




14
Section C – Skill Level Training Requirements

10. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of tasks
and knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for
each skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry,
award, and retention of each skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements
are identified in the STS at Part II, Sections A and B of this CFETP.

11. Training Requirements:

11.1. Apprentice Level Training (3-Level):

11.1.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is derived from the official specialty
description in the ECD.

11.1.1.1. Knowledge. (Financial Management and Comptroller AFSC 6F031):
Knowledge of fiscal law, accounting and payment principles/procedures, contingency operations,
financial management systems and basic computer applications, pay and travel entitlements, Air
Force organization, reporting requirements, analysis techniques, financial management policies,
procedures and regulations, management principles and controls, budgeting principles, financial
management decision support techniques, visual, oral, and written presentation techniques and
Air Force missions.

11.1.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school courses in
mathematics, accounting, business law, ethics, and computer applications are desirable.

11.1.1.3. Training. The following training is mandatory as indicated for award of AFSC 6F031:
Completion of the Basic Financial Management and Comptroller Apprentice course.

11.1.1.4. Experience. None required.

11.1.1.5. Other. The following are mandatory for entry, award, and retention of the Financial
Management and Comptroller Apprentice AFSC (6F031): No record of conviction by a civilian
court for offenses involving larceny, robbery, wrongful appropriation, burglary, or fraud. Never
received nonjudicial punishment under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) for
offenses involving acts of larceny, wrongful appropriation, robbery, burglary or fraud as defined
in UCMJ Articles 121, 122, 129, and 132 or never been convicted by military courts-martial for
these same offenses. For award and retention of AFSC 6F031 must maintain an Air Force
Network License according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying
Network.

11.1.1.6. Training Sources and Resources. Formal AETC initial skills course provide the
required knowledge and task proficiency training for award of the 3-skill level.

11.1.1.7. Implementation. Upon graduation from Basic Military Training, Airmen are assigned
to the 335th Training Squadron at Keesler AFB, MS to attend formal technical training. This
training culminates with foundational skills within this specialty. Successful completion of
formal technical training results in the award of the 3-skill level.



11.2. Journeyman Level Training (5-level):

11.2.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is derived from the official specialty
description in the ECD.

11.2.1.1. Knowledge. (Financial Management and Comptroller AFSC 6F051):
Knowledge of fiscal law, accounting and payment principles/procedures, contingency operations,
financial management systems and basic computer applications, pay and travel entitlements, Air
Force organization, reporting requirements, analysis techniques, financial management policies,
procedures and regulations, management principles and controls, budgeting principles, financial
management decision support techniques, visual, oral, and written presentation techniques, and
Air Force missions.

11.2.1.2. Education. There are no formal education requirements for upgrade to AFSC 6F051.
However, progress toward a CCAF Associate’s Degree is highly encouraged.

11.2.1.3. Training. The following training is mandatory as indicated: Completion of the 5-skill
level CDCs and completion of Financial Management Principles web-based course (based on
date of rank). See para 12.1 for detailed 5-skill level upgrade requirements.

11.2.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 6F031. Experience in financial
management such as customer service, document and voucher processing, computation, systems,
funds control, reporting, reconciliation and follow-up.

11.2.1.5. Other. The following are mandatory for entry, award, and retention of the Financial
Management and Comptroller Journeyman AFSC (6F051): No record of conviction by a civilian
court for offenses involving larceny, robbery, wrongful appropriation, burglary, or fraud. Never
received nonjudicial punishment under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) for
offenses involving acts of larceny, wrongful appropriation, robbery, burglary or fraud as defined
in UCMJ Articles 121, 122, 129, and 132 or never been convicted by military courts-martial for
these same offenses.

11.2.1.6. For award and retention of AFSC 6F051 must maintain an Air Force Network License
according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network.

11.2.1.7. Training Sources and Resources. The 5-level CDC provides the career knowledge
training required. The CDCs and OJT will provide training and qualification on the core tasks
identified in the STS. The CDC is written to build from the trainee’s current knowledge base
and provides more in-depth knowledge to support OJT requirements.




16
11.2.1.8. Implementation. Units will utilize the STS, CDCs, and web-based training to perform
training to the 5-level.

11.3. Craftsman Level Training (7-level):

11.3.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is derived from the official specialty
description in the ECD.

11.3.1.1. Knowledge. (Financial Management and Comptroller AFSC 6F071):
Knowledge of fiscal law, accounting and payment principles/procedures, contingency operations,
financial management systems and basic computer applications, pay and travel entitlements, Air
Force organization, reporting requirements, analysis techniques, financial management policies,
procedures and regulations, management principles and controls, budgeting principles, financial
management decision support techniques, visual, oral, and written presentation techniques, and
Air Force missions.

11.3.1.2. Education. Completion of a CCAF and baccalaureate degree is highly encouraged.

11.3.1.3. Training. The following training is mandatory as indicated: Completion of the 7-skill
level CDC and completion of the Financial Management and Comptroller Craftsman course (7-
level in-residence), FM Silver Flag at Tyndall AFB, FL for Technical Sergeants and Financial
Management Concepts web-based course (based on date of rank). See para 12.2 for detailed 7-
skill level upgrade requirements.

11.3.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 6F051. Experience in performing
or supervising activities of financial management such as customer service, financial analysis
document and voucher processing, computation, systems, funds control, reporting, reconciliation
and follow-up.

11.3.1.5. Other. The following are mandatory for entry, award, and retention of the Financial
Management and Comptroller Craftsman AFSC (6F071): No record of conviction by a civilian
court for offenses involving larceny, robbery, wrongful appropriation, burglary, or fraud. Never
received nonjudicial punishment under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) for
offenses involving acts of larceny, wrongful appropriation, robbery, burglary or fraud as defined
in UCMJ Articles 121, 122, 129, and 132 or never been convicted by military courts-martial for
these same offenses.

11.3.1.6. For award and retention of AFSC 6F071 must maintain an Air Force Network License
according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network.

11.3.1.7. Training Sources and Resources. Seven-level upgrade training will be conducted and
completed by certified trainers.

11.3.1.8. Implementation. Units will utilize the STS, CDC, and in-residence and web-based
training to perform training to the 7-level.



17
11.4. Superintendent Level Training (9-level):

11.4.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is derived from official specialty description in
the ECD.

11.4.1.1. Knowledge. (Financial Management and Comptroller AFSC 6F091):
Knowledge of fiscal law, accounting and payment principles/procedures, contingency operations,
financial management systems and basic computer applications, pay and travel entitlements, Air
Force organization, reporting requirements, analysis techniques, financial management policies,
procedures and regulations, management principles and controls, budgeting principles, financial
management decision support techniques, visual, oral, and written presentation techniques, and
Air Force missions.

11.4.1.2. Education. Completion of a CCAF and baccalaureate degree is highly encouraged.

11.4.1.3. Training. Completion of the Financial Management Staff Officer Course is desirable.
See para 12.3 for detailed 9-skill level requirements.

11.4.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 6F071. Experience in managing
and directing financial management activities.

11.4.1.5. Other. The following are mandatory for entry, award, and retention of the Financial
Management and Comptroller Superintendent AFSC (6F091): No record of conviction by a
civilian court for offenses involving larceny, robbery, wrongful appropriation, burglary, or fraud.
Never received nonjudicial punishment under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) for
offenses involving acts of larceny, wrongful appropriation, robbery, burglary or fraud as defined
in UCMJ Articles 121, 122, 129, and 132 or never been convicted by military courts martial for
these same offenses.

11.4.1.6. For award and retention of AFSC 6F091 must maintain an Air Force Network License
according to AFI 33-115, Volume 2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network.

11.4.1.7. Training Sources and Resources. No formal training is required. Qualification training
and experience inherent in career specialty job performance are desired sources of training.

11.4.1.8. Implementation. The 9-level will be awarded after promotion to SMSgt.

12. Financial Management Formal Upgrade Program

12.1. Award of 6F051 Air Force Specialty Code.

12.1.1. Complete minimum requirements in AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program.

12.1.2. Successfully complete 5-level Career Development Courses in addition to job
qualification training.



18
12.1.3. Be signed off on all core tasks as identified in the CFETP using the OJT training guides

12.1.4. Be signed off on all tasks listed on the XFFA1 Unit Type Code (UTC) task listing.

12.2. Award of 6F071 Air Force Specialty Code.

12.2.1. Complete minimum requirements in AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program.

12.2.2. Successfully complete 7-level Career Development Course in addition to job
qualification training.

12.2.3. Complete Financial Management and Comptroller Craftsman course.

12.2.4. Be retrained and demonstrate proficiency on previously signed off core tasks.

12.2.5. Be signed off on all tasks listed on the XFFA2 Unit Type Code (UTC) task.

12.3. Award of 6F091 Air Force Specialty Code.

12.3.1. Complete minimum requirements in AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program.

12.4. Grandfathering rules. N/A

12.5. Functional Areas. Functional Areas are: Quality Assurance, Resource Advisor, Financial
Analysis, Financial Services, Cost Center of Excellence and Special Duty Assignments.

12.5.1. Special Duty Assignments. Special Duty Assignments include any assignment within the
career field, but outside of the above functional areas where the individual retains their 6F AFSC
such as: MAJCOM Staff, CDC Writer, Technical Training Instructor, etc. Also included are
Special Duty Assignments outside of the career field, such as: First Sergeant, Military Training
Instructor, Recruiter, etc.

12.5.2. Upgrade Management. Base-level superintendents are responsible for monitoring the
upgrade process for 6F0XX personnel assigned to their base (i.e. host and tenant) to ensure
personnel meet the minimum requirements prior to the commander awarding the appropriate
skill level. Commanders must ensure UTC task list requirements are met before awarding a
higher skill level.

Section D: Resource Constraints

13. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints, which preclude optimal and
desired training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and
manpower. Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement
describing what effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section
are actions required, office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource
constraints will be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

19
There are no resource constraints identified for training in this AFSC.




20
Part II

Section A – AETC Course Objectives

1. Introduction. Each proficiency coded STS task or knowledge item taught at the technical
school is measured through the use of an objective. An objective is a written instruction for the
student so he or she knows what is expected of them to successfully complete training on each
task. Each objective is comprised of a condition, behavior, and standard that states what is
expected of the student for each task. The condition is the setting in which the training takes
place (i.e. TOs, type of equipment, etc). The behavior is the observable portion of the objective
(i.e. perform an operational check). The standard is the level of performance that is measured to
ensure the STS proficiency code level is attained (i.e. “with no more than two instructor assists”).
AETC course objectives and associated information are published in the Plan of Instruction
(POI) for each of the courses identified in Section D, below, Training Course Index.

2. Objective Measurement. Each objective uses letter codes(s) to identify how it is measured.
All objectives using the PC code indicate a progress check is used to measure subject or task
knowledge. W indicates a comprehensive written test and is used to measure the subject or task
knowledge at the end of a block of instruction. PC/W indicates a subject or task knowledge
progress check and a separate measurement of both knowledge and performance elements using
a written test.

3. Objective Standard. The standard for written examinations is 70%. Standards for
performance objectives are indicated in the objective and are also indicated on the individual
progress check checklist. The checklist is used by the instructor to document each student’s
progress, on each task. Instructor assistance is provided as needed during the progress check,
and students may be required to repeat all or part of the behavior until satisfactory performance
is attained. Students must satisfactorily complete all PCs prior to taking the written test.

4. Proficiency Level. Review column 4A of the STS to determine the proficiency level of a
particular task or knowledge item. Review the course objective list to determine which STS item
the objective supports. Review the proficiency code key in the STS Attachment 1 of this CFETP
for an explanation of the proficiency codes. Most task performance is taught to the ‘2b’
proficiency level which means the students can do most parts of the task, but does need
assistance on the hardest parts of the task (partially proficient). The student can also determine
step-by-step procedures for doing the task. For tasks that are taught to the ‘3c’ proficiency level,
students can do all parts of the task and only require a spot check on completed work
(competent). The student can also identify why and when a task must be done and why each step
is needed.

Section B – This area is reserved

Section C – This area is reserved

Section D – This area is reserved



21
Section E – This area is reserved

Section F - Specialty Training Standard

1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC for 3-skill
level classes beginning January 2012. The 7-skill level in-residence class will be effective on or
after 1 October 2011.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, this STS:

2.1. Lists in the column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) lists the most common
tasks, knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for airmen to perform duties in the 3-,
5-, and 7-skill level. Column 2 (Core Tasks) indentified by asterisk (*).

2.2. Provides documentation for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and
knowledge training requirements. Use automated training management systems to document
technician qualifications, if available. In this career field third party certification is not required.
Task certification is accomplished when the trainer adds their initials and date trained to column
3 D.

2.3. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the
proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the task and
knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course. See
CADRE/AFSC/CDC listing maintained by the unit-training manager for current CDC listings.

2.4. Qualitative Requirements. STS contains the proficiency code key used to indicate the level
of training and knowledge provided by resident training and CDC courses.

2.5. Used to document task when placed in AF Form 623, Individual Training Record, and used
according to AFI 36-2201.

2.6. Becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job training when placed in AF Form
623, On-The-Job Training Record, and used according to AFI 36-2201. When used as a JQS, the
following requirements apply:

2.6.1. Documentation. Consult AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, for documentation
questions and issues. Note: The Financial Management Functional Community mandated use of
Air Force Training Record (AFTR) effective 29 Aug 2008. Guidance and training material can
be found on the SAF/FM AFTR Community of Practice:
https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=AF-FM-XH-04

2.6.2. Training Standard. For On-the-Job Training, tasks are trained and qualified to the “go/no
go” level. Do not use the proficiency codes for OJT. These codes are used strictly for the in
residence 3-skill level and 7-skill level courses and the 5-skill level CDCs. “Go” means the
individual is capable and competent to perform tasks without assistance and meets local demands
for performance, accuracy, timeliness, and correct use of procedures.

22
2.7. The STS is a guide to develop promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion
System (WAPS). Senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their career fields develop
Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKT) at the USAF Occupational Measurement Squadron. The tests
sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development team members as
most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon study references
listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are in AFI 36-2605, Air Force Military
Personnel Testing System. WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard or Air Force
Reserve.

3. Recommendations. Comments and recommendations concerning the quality of AETC
training are welcomed. Information or questions regarding changes to training outlined in this
CFETP should be addressed to: 81 TRG/TGET, 106 Phantom Dr, Suite 232, Keesler AFB, MS
39534-2037. Additionally, a customer service information line (CSIL) has been installed for the
supervisor’s convenience. The CSIL may be used to identify graduates who may have potential
training deficiencies or who may have received training beyond the STS requirement. For a
quick response to problems, call the CSIL at DSN 597-4566, or e-mail the request to
81trgtget@keesler.af.mil at Keesler AFB.


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL                                    JAMIE M. MORIN
                                            Financial Management and Comptroller (SAF/FM)



Attachment:
STS, 6F0XX




23
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                Initials (Written)                     SSAN (last four only)

                                             Printed Name Of Training/Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                           N/I

N/I
                                                                               N/I
N/I                                                                            N/I

N/I                                                                            N/I

N/I                                                                            N/I

N/I                                                                            N/I

N/I                                                                            N/I

N/I
                                                                               N/I
N/I                                                                            N/I

N/I                                                                            N/I

                                                  QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                               Proficiency Code Key
                         Scale Value         Definition: The individual
                                             IS EXTREMELY LIMITED (Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how
                               1             to do most of the task.)
    Task                                     IS PARTIALLY PROFICIENT (Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest
                               2             parts.)
Performance
                               3             IS COMPETENT (Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work.)
   Levels
                                             IS HIGHLY PROFICIENT (Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show
                               4             others how to do the task.)
                              a              KNOWS NOMENCLATURE (Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. )
   *Task                      b              KNOWS PROCEDURES (Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. )
 Knowledge                                   KNOWS OPERATING PRINCIPLES (Can identify why and when the task must be done and
                              c
  Levels                                     why each step is needed.)
                              d              KNOWS ADVANCED THEORY (Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task.)
                              A              KNOWS FACTS (Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject.)
 **Subject                                   KNOWS PRINCIPLES (Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles
                              B              about the subject.)
 Knowledge                                   KNOWS ANALYSIS (Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject.)
                              C
   Levels                                    KNOWS EVALUATION (Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the
                              D              subject.)
Explanations:
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific
task. (Example: b and 1b)
** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or
for a subject common to several tasks.
- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the courses or CDCs.
/ This mark is used in course columns along with proficiency codes to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in
resources (3c/b, 2b/b, 2b/- etc.).
Note: All tasks and knowledge items taught in the initial skills course are trained during war time. The 7 level course is not taught in
wartime.




24
     This Page Intentionally Left Blank




25
1. Tasks, Knowledge and                2. Core   Certification for OJT                     3. Certification for OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To
Technical References                   Tasks                                                                                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                     Provided (See Note)
                                                   A         B           C         D         A         B          C          D          A         B       C        D
                                                                                                                                     3 Skill   5 Skill       7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                                     Level     Level
                                                 Tng     Tng         Trainee    Trainer    Tng     Trng        Trainee    Trainer    Course    CDC       (1)          (2)
                                                 Start   Complete    Initials   Initials   Start   Complete    Initials   Initials                       Course       CDC
1. CAREER LADDER
PROGRESSION
TR: CFETP; AFI 36-2101;
http://www.e-publishing.af.mil
1.1. CFETP                                                                                                                           A         B         -            B
TR: CFETP FM and Comptroller
AFSC 6F0XX, Section B, pgs 5-21.
AFI 36-2101, Ch 1
1.2 Contingency Training                                                                                                             A         B         -            B
TR: AFH 65-115, pg 24; AF Portal at
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/
views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-FM-CC
 Select Contingency Training Links
2.     PUBLICATIONS                         *
TR: http:www.e-publishing.af.mil;
AFI 33-360 Pubs and Forms Mgmt;
https://dfas4dod.dfas.mil/
Records Disposition -
https://afrims.amc.af.mil

2.1. Locate Functional                                                                                                               2b        -         -            -
      Publications Using Electronic
      Media
TR: FM Enlisted Training
CoP/Training Resources/Core
Tasks
2.2. Apply Functional Publications                                                                                                   2b        b         2b           -
TR: FM publications-65 series; DoD
FMR 7000.14-R (under Items of
Interest, select Forms, Publications
and Other Publishing Sites/Dept of
Defense Sites/DoD Instructions and
Directives/Publications);
 https://dfas4dod.dfas.mil
3. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
AND COMPTROLLER
TR: The DoD Organizations and
Functions Guidebook,
http://www.defense.gov/pubs.
Select OSD. Select DoD
Organization and Functions
Guidebook under Department of
Defense; AFI 38-101, AFPAM 38-
102, https://dfas4dod.dfas.mil/

3.1. DoD                                                                                                                             A         B         -            -
TR: DoD Directive, 5100.1
3.2. SAF                                                                                                                             A         B         -            -
TR: DoD Directive, 5100.1; 10 USC
8013, Secretary of the Air Force
http://uscode.house.gov

3.3. MAJCOM Level                                                                                                                    A         B         -            -
TR:
http://odam.defense.gov/omp/pubs/
GuideBook/ToC.htm
and DODD 5100



          26
1. Tasks, Knowledge and                2. Core   Certification for OJT           3. Certification for OJT       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
Technical References                   Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                Provided (See Note)
                                                  A          B           C   D    A          B          C   D      A         B         C      D
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill       7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                Level     Level
3.5. Defense Finance and                                                                                        A         B         -            -
Accounting Service (DFAS)
TR:
http://odam.defense.gov/omp/pubs/
GuideBook/ToC.htm
3.6. Air Force Financial Services                                                                               A         B         -            -
Center (AFFSC)
TR:
https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/com
munity/views/home.aspx?Filter=AF-
FM-FH-02
3.7. Center of Expertise (CoE)                                                                                  A         B         -            -
 TR:
https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASP
s/DocMan/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&F
olderID=OO-FM-CO-CE-24-
2&dFilter=OO-FM-CO-CE

3.8. Air Force Accounting and                                                                                   A         B         -            -
Finance Office (AFAFO)
TR:
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/browse.do?programId=t
6925EC2D5F4F0FB5E044080020E
329A9&channelPageId=s6925EC13
53280FB5E044080020E329A9

4. QUALITY ASSURANCE
PROGRAM
TR: AFI 65-202
4.1. Metrics                                                                                                    -         A         -            B

4.2. Self-Inspections                                                                                           -         A         -            B

4.3. Internal Reviews and Audits                                                                                -         A         -            B

4.4. Fraud Prevention                                                                                           -         A         -            B

4.5. Cross Feeds                                                                                                -         A         -            B

4.6. QA Plans                                                                                                   -         A         -            B

4.7. Discrepancy Tracking                                                                                       -         A         -            B

4.8. Management Control Program                                                                                 -         A         -            B

5. CUSTOMER SERVICE                    *
 TR:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/
views/home.aspx?Filter=AF-FM-FF-
09
 Select Training Resources
5.1. Principles                                                                                                 B         B         B            -

5.2. Etiquette

5.2.1. Apply Personal Etiquette                                                                                 2b        b         2b           -

5.2.2. Apply Telephone Etiquette                                                                                2b        b         2b           -




           27
1. Tasks, Knowledge and                2. Core   Certification for OJT           3. Certification for OJT       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
Technical References                   Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                Provided (See Note)
                                                  A          B           C   D    A          B          C   D      A         B         C      D

                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                Level     Level
5.2.3. Apply Electronic                                                                                         2b        b         -          -
Communication Etiquette
6. FEDERAL BUDGET SYSTEM
TR: DODI 7045.7, and AFI 65-601
V3

6.1. Planning, Programming,                                                                                     A         B         -          -
Budgeting and Execution (PPBE)

6.2. Budget Process                                                                                             A         B         -          -

7. FISCAL LAW
TR:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/
views/home.aspx?Filter=AF-FM-FF-
09
 Select Training Resources

7.1. Purpose Time and Amount           *                                                                        B         B         B          -
TR: Title 31 USC 1341, 1342, 1344,
and 1511-17

7.2. Feed and Forage Act                                                                                        -         A         B          -
TR: Title 41 USC 11

7.3. Comptroller General Decisions                                                                              -         A         -          B
TR:
http://www.gao.gov/decisions/decisi
on.htm

8. O&M EXECUTION PLANS
TR: AFI 65-601 V1 Ch 5, 7, and 10;
V2 Ch 2-5, 7, and 9; AFI 65-603;
DFAS-DE 7010.5R Ch 2-4, and 7;
DoD FMR 7000.14R V 1, 2, 11, and
14

8.1. Requirements Based on
Current/Historical Data and Mission
Changes

8.1.1. Flying Hour Program                                                                                      -         A         -          B

8.1.2. Official Representation Funds                                                                            -         A         -          B

8.1.3. Travel/ Transportation                                                                                   -         A         -          B

8.1.4. Purchases Services

8.1.4.1. Utilities                                                                                              -         A         -          B

8.1.4.2. Communications                                                                                         -         A         -          B

8.1.4.3. Rents/Leases                                                                                           -         A         -          B

8.1.4.4. Sustainment, Restoration,                                                                              -         A         -          B
and Modernization (SR&M)

8.1.4.5. Miscellaneous Contract                                                                                 -         A         -          B
Services/ Purchases Maintenance



            28
1. Tasks, Knowledge and               2. Core   Certification for OJT           3. Certification for OJT       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
Technical References                  Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                               Provided (See Note)
                                                 A          B           C   D    A          B          C   D      A         B         C      D

                                                                                                               3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill Level
                                                                                                               Level     Level
8.1.5. Supplies and Equipment                                                                                  -         A         -          B

8.1.6. Non-Flying DLRs                                                                                         -         A         -          B

8.1.7. Civilian Pay                                                                                            -         A         -          B

8.2. Submission                                                                                                -         A         -          B

9. FUNDS DISTRIBUTION
TR: AFI 65-601 V1 Ch 5, V2 Ch 2-
7, and 14
9.1. Interpret Direct and                                                                                      a         b         -          b
Reimbursement Funding, TOA and
TAA

9.2. Interpret Funding Guidance                                                                                a         b         -          b

9.3. Interpret Initial Distribution

9.3.1. Annual Funding                                                                                          a         b         -          -

9.3.2. Quarterly Phasing                                                                                       a         b         -          -

9.4. Load Fund Targets/Limitations

9.4.1. General Accounting and                                                                                  1a        b         -          -
Finance System

9.4.2. Supply                                                                                                  a         b         -          -

9.4.3. Medical                                                                                                 a         b         -          -

9.5. Verify Target/Limitation Loads                                                                            a         b         -          -
Against Document

10. BUDGET EXECUTION
TR: DODI 4000.19; AFI 65-601 Vol.
1, Ch 4-10, 15, 16, 18; AFI 65-601
Vol. 2, Ch 2, 10; DoD FMR 7000.14-
R Vols. 1, 2, 11, 14; DFAS-DE
7010.1-R and AFMAN 65-604
10.1. Determine Propriety of          *                                                                        a         b         2b         -
Funding

10.2. Determine Status of Funds/                                                                               -         b         1b         -
Reprogramming Actions

10.3. Track Reimbursements                                                                                     a         b         -          -

10.4. Flying Hour Program                                                                                      -         A         -          B

10.5. Civilian Pay                                                                                             -         A         -          B

10.6. Quarterly Variance Analysis                                                                              -         A         -          B

10.7. Management of Prior Year                                                                                 -         A         -          B
Funds

10.8. Resource Management
System (RMS)

10.8.1. Training                                                                                               -         A         -          -



            29
1. Tasks, Knowledge and             2. Core   Certification for OJT           3. Certification for OJT       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
Technical References                Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
                                               A          B           C   D    A          B          C   D      A         B         C      D

                                                                                                             3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             Level     Level
10.8.2. Financial Working Group                                                                              A         A         -          B
(FWG)

10.8.3. Financial Management                                                                                 A         A         -          B
Board (FMB)

10.8.4. Prepare FWG Briefing                                                                                 -         -         -          -

10.8.5. Prepare FMB Briefing                                                                                 -         -         -          -

10.9. Perform Budget Program                                                                                 -         b         -          -
Analysis

11. ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vols. 4, 5,
10, 11, and 14; DFAS-DE 7010.1-R;
DFAS-DE 7077.2-M
11.1. Apply Stages of Accounting    *
TR: DFAS-DE 7010.1-R, Ch 18, 19,
20, 21; FM Enlisted Training
CoP/Training Resources/ALO-
FMA/Training Guides
11.1.1. Disbursement Accounting

11.1.1.1. Commitments                                                                                        2b        b         -          -

11.1.1.2. UOO                                                                                                2b        b         -          -

11.1.1.3. AEU                                                                                                2b        b         -          -

11.1.1.4. AEP                                                                                                2b        b         -          -
11.1.2. Reimbursement Accounting
TR: DFAS-DE 7010.1-R, Chap 22,
23
11.1.2.1. UFCO                                                                                               2b        b         -          -

11.1.2.2. FOU                                                                                                2b        b         -          -

11.1.2.3. FOC                                                                                                2b        b         -          -

11.1.3. Standard Accounting                                                                                  A         A         -          A

11.2. Determine Elements of         *                                                                        2b        b         -          -
Accounting Classifications
TR: DFAS-DE 7077.2-M, Section 5
and 15; AFMAN 65-604,
Appropriation Symbols and Budget
Codes
11.3. Accounting Addresses
TR: DFAS-DE 7077.2-M, sections
3.2, 12-15
11.3.1. Research                                                                                             1a        b         -          -

11.3.2. Build                                                                                                1a        b         -          -

11.4. Funds Certification
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R, Vol. 14;
DFAS-DE Interim Guidance,
Accounting for Commitments; AFI
65-601 V1




          30
1. Tasks, Knowledge and               2. Core   Certification for OJT           3. Certification for OJT       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
Technical References                  Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                               Provided (See Note)
                                                 A          B           C   D    A          B          C   D      A         B         C      D

                                                                                                               3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill Level
                                                                                                               Level     Level
11.4.1. Verify Accuracy of                                                                                     a         b         2b         -
Accounting Classifications

11.4.2. Determine Fund Availability                                                                            a         b         2b         -

11.4.3. Certify Fund Availability                                                                              1a        b         2b         -

11.5. General Accounting and
Finance System
TR: DFAS DE 7077.2-M
11.5.1. Interfaces                                                                                             A         A         -          -

11.5.2. On-Line Updates                                                                                        A         B         -          -

11.5.3. Merged Accountability and
Fund Reporting

11.5.3.1. Input                                                                                                -         B         -          -

11.5.3.2. Reconcile                                                                                            -         B         -          -

11.6. Base Variable File                                                                                       -         -         -          -

11.7. Master Appropriation                                                                                     -         -         -          -
Reference Table and By-Pass
Codes

11.8. CSR/FSR Rejects and                                                                                      A         B         -          -
Management Notices
TR: DFAS-DE 7077.2-M, Section 16
11.9. Process Automated
Commitment Documents
TR: DFAS-DE 7010.1-R Chap 17,
18; DFAS-DE Field Sites and
Departmental Accounting, Critical
Processes, Flowcharts, Internal
Management Controls,
Responsibilities and Procedures;
DFAS-DE Interim Guidance,
Accounting for Commitments; DFAS
DE 7077.7-M; DFAS-DE 7077-2,
Section 57; FM Enlisted Training
CoP/Training Resources/ALO-
FMA/Training Guides
11.9.1. AF Form 9, Request for                                                                                 1a        b         -          -
Purchase

11.9.2. AF Form 616, Fund Cite                                                                                 1a        b         -          -
Authorization

11.9.3. AF Form 4009, Government                                                                               1a        b         -          -
Purchase Card Fund Cite
Authorization

11.9.4. DD Form 448, Military                                                                                  1a        b         -          -
Interdepartmental Purchase
Request




           31
1. Tasks, Knowledge and               2. Core   Certification for OJT           3. Certification for OJT       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
Technical References                  Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                               Provided (See Note)
                                                 A          B           C   D    A          B          C   D      A         B         C      D


                                                                                                               3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill Level
                                                                                                               Level     Level

11.10. Validate Obligation
Documents
TR: DFAS-DE 7010.5R; DFAS-DE
7000.4-R; DFAS-DE 7077.7-M; FM
Enlisted Training CoP/Training
Resources/ALO-FMA/Training
Guides;
https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/com
munity/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-
FM-AF-01
DFAS4DOD.mil
11.10.1. Contracts/Purchase Orders                                                                             1a        b         2b         -

11.10.2. Project Order                                                                                         -         a         -          -

11.10.3. AF Form 406.                                                                                          1a        b         -          -
Miscellaneous Obligation
Reimbursement Document

11.10.4. DD Form 448-2,                                                                                        1a        b         2b         -
Acceptance Military
Interdepartmental Purchase
Request

11.10.5. Government Purchase                                                                                   1a        b         -          -
Card Program
TR: AFI 64-117
11.10.6. Travel Orders                                                                                         1a        b         -          -
TR: AFI 65-103 Vol. 1; DFAS-DE
7077-2-M, Section 30; Interim
Guidance on Procedures for Travel
Accounting Operations, Section 7
11.10.7. Military/Civilian Training                                                                            -         a         -          -
(SF182)

11.10.8. Local Drayage                                                                                         -         a         -          -

11.10.9. Utility Bills                                                                                         -         a         -          -

11.11. Payment Process
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R, Vol. 10;
DFAS-DE 7010.1-R Ch 27; DAFS-
DE 7077.7-M; DFAS-DE Field Sites
and Departmental Accounting
Critical Processes, Flowcharts,
Internal Management Controls,
Responsibilities and Procedures;
https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASP
s/docman/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&Fo
lderID=OO-FM-AF-0163&Filter=OO-
FM-AF-01
 DFAS4DOD.mil
11.11.1. Receiving Reports                                                                                     A         B         -          -
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R, Vol. 10,
Ch 8, 10, 12; DFAS DE 7077.7-M;
DFAS4DOD.mil




            32
1. Tasks, Knowledge and              2. Core   Certification for OJT           3. Certification for OJT       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
Technical References                 Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                              Provided (See Note)
                                                A          B           C   D    A          B          C   D      A         B         C      D
                                                                                                              3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill Level
                                                                                                              Level     Level
11.11.2. Invoices                                                                                             A         B         -          -
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R, Vol. 10,
Ch 8, 10, 12; DFAS-DE 7077.7-M;
DFAS-DE Field Sites and
Departmental Accounting Critical
Processes, Flowcharts, Internal
Management Controls,
Responsibilities and Procedures;
DFAS4DOD.mil
11.11.3. Prompt Payment Act (PPA)                                                                             A         B         -          -
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R, Vol. 10
Ch 7
11.11.4. Cash Management                                                                                      -         -         -          -

11.11.5. Payment Date                                                                                         -         -         -          -

11.11.6. Interest Penalty Payments                                                                            -         -         -          -

11.11.7. Discounts                                                                                            -         -         -          -

11.11.8. Foreign Currency
Fluctuation Account

11.11.8.1. Budget Rate                                                                                        -         b         2b         -

11.11.8.2. Daily Exchange Rate                                                                                -         b         2b         -

11.11.9. Prepare and Process                                                                                  -         -         -          -
Adjustment Vouchers

11.12. Accounts Receivable
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R, Vol. 11A
and B; DFAS-DE 7010.5-R Ch 1, 4,
7-10, 14; DFAS4DOD.mil
11.12.1. Customer Billings

11.12.1.1. Stock Fund                                                                                         -         -         -          -

11.12.1.2. Miscellaneous                                                                                      -         -         -          -

11.12.2. Process Collections                                                                                  a         b         b          -

11.12.3. Delinquent Accounts                                                                                  -         A         -          -
Receivable/ Write-Offs
11.13. Governmental Accounting
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R, Vol. 4;
DFAS-DE 7077.10-M, Sections 15,
42, 47; DFAS-DE 7010.1-R Chap
24, 27; DFAS-DE 7077.2-M Sec 31,
32, and 79; DFAS4DOD.mil
11.13.1. Budgetary Accounts                                                                                   -         A         -          -

11.13.2. Proprietary Accounts                                                                                 -         A         -          -

11.14. Financial Management
System Products
TR: DFAS-DE 7077.2-M; DFAS-DE
7077.4-M; DFAS-DE 7010.1-R;
DFAS-DE 7071.7-M
11.14.1. Accounts Payable                                                                                     -         B         -          -
Management Products
TR: DFAS-DE 7077.7-M




          33
1. Tasks, Knowledge and                2. Core   Certification for OJT           3. Certification for OJT       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
Technical References                   Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                Provided (See Note)
                                                  A          B           C   D    A          B          C   D      A         B         C      D

                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                Level     Level
11.14.2. Open Document List                                                                                     A         B         -          -

11.14.3. Daily Audit List                                                                                       A         B         -          -
11.14.4. Automated Execution                                                                                    -         B         -          -
Reports
11.14.5. Selective Transaction                                                                                  A         B         -          -
History List
11.14.6. Outstanding Orders, Travel                                                                             A         B         -          -
Advances, and Obligations List

11.15. Perform Tri-Annual Review of                                                                             a         b         -          -
Obligations
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R, Vol. 3,
Chap 8; DFAS 7220.4-I;
DFAS4DOD.mil
12. MILITARY PAY

12.1. Interpreting MMPA                                                                                         1a        b         -          -
TR: AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch 5

12.2. Interpreting LES                                                                                          1a        b         -          -
TR: AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1,Ch 7
12.3. Clear Management Notices                                                                                  a         b         -          -
TR: AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch 4
and ATT 23
12.4. Correct Rejects                                                                                           a         b         -          -
TR: AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch 4
and ATT 23
12.5. Terminal Area Security Officer                                                                            -         A         -          -
(TASO)
TR: AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch 3
12.6. Voucher Balancing                                                                                         -         B         -          -
TR: AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch 76
13. ENTITLEMENTS

13.1. Compute Basic Pay                                                                                         1a        a         -          -
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A
Ch 1; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch 8
13.2. Special Pay/Bonuses
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A
Ch 9; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch 10
13.2.1. Medical and Dental                                                                                      -         A         -          -
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A
Ch 5,6; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch
10
13.2.2. Proficiency/ Special Duty                                                                               -         A         -          -
Assignment
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A
Ch 8; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch 11

13.2.3. Process Hostile Fire and                                                                                a         b         -          -
Imminent Danger
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A
Ch 10; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch
13; DFAS4DOD.mil




           34
1. Tasks, Knowledge and              2. Core   Certification for OJT           3. Certification for OJT       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
Technical References                 Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                              Provided (See Note)
                                                A          B           C   D    A          B          C   D      A         B         C      D

                                                                                                              3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill Level
                                                                                                              Level     Level

13.2.4. Process Aviation Retention                                                                            a         b         -          -
Pay
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A
Ch 20; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch
16; DFAS4DOD.mil

13.2.5. Process Hardship Duty Pay                                                                             a         b         -          -
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A
Ch 17; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch
18; DFAS4DOD.mil
13.2.6. Incentive Pay                                                                                         -         A         -          -
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A
Ch 24; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch
23; DFAS4DOD.mil
13.2.7. Aviation Career Incentive                                                                             -         A         -          -
Pay
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A
Ch 22; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch
22; DFAS4DOD.mil

13.2.8. Career Status Bonus                                                                                   -         A         -          -
TR: National Defense Authorization
Act, Sections 641-644; Public Law
106-65, 5 Oct 99; HQ USAF/DP
Msg. 302327Z MAR 01; MPFM 01-
10, 10 Apr 01; DoD FMR 7000.14-R
Vol. 7A Ch 66
13.2.9. Initial Enlistment Bonus                                                                              -         A         -          -
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A,
Ch 9; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch 12;
DFAS4DOD.mil
13.3. Entitlement
Verification/Recertification
TR: AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch 26,
32, ATT 26, JFTR Vol. 1 Ch 10;
DFAS4DOD.mil
13.3.1. Individual                                                                                            A         B         -          -

13.3.2. Unit/Agency Verification                                                                              -         B         -          -

13.4. Determine Combat Zone Tax                                                                               1a        b         -          -
Exclusion / Qualified Hazardous
Duty Pay
TR: AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch 56;
DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A, Ch
44; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch 44;
Public Law 104-117 dated March
20, 1996
14. ALLOWANCES


14.1. BAS
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A,
Ch 25; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch
25
14.1.1. Compute BAS                                                                                           1a        b         -          -

14.1.2. Process Meal Deductions                                                                               2b        a         -          b



           35
1. Tasks, Knowledge and            2. Core   Certification for OJT           3. Certification for OJT       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
Technical References               Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                            Provided (See Note)
                                              A          B           C   D    A          B          C   D        A        B         C           D

                                                                                                            3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill Level
                                                                                                            Level     Level

14.1.3. Family Subsistence                                                                                  -         -         -
Supplemental Allowance (FSSA)

14.2. Process BAH                                                                                           2b        a         -           b
TR: JFTR, Ch 10; AFMAN 65-116,
Vol. 1, Ch 26
14.3. Clothing                                                                                              A         B         -           -
TR: AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch 33;
DoD FMR 7000.14-R Ch 29, 30; AFI
36-3014 Ch 2 and 3
14.4. Compute Family Separation                                                                             1a        b         -           -
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A,
Ch 27; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch
27
14.5. COLA                                                                                                  A         B         -           -
TR: JFTR Ch 8, 9; AFMAN 65-116,
Vol. 1, Ch 28
14.6. OHA                                                                                                   A         B         -           -
TR: JFTR Ch 10; AFMAN 65-116,
Vol. 1, Ch 30
14.7. TLA                                                                                                   A         B         -           -
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A,
Chap 28; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1,
Chap 29
14.8 MIHA                                                                                                   A         B         -           -

15. DUTY STATUS


15.1. Process PCS                                                                                           2b        b         -           -
TR: AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch 41

15.2. Process Leave                                                                                         2b        b         -           -
TR: AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch 44

15.3. Absent Without Leave                                                                                  A         A
(AWOL)
15.4. Confinement                                                                                           A         A         -           -
TR: AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch 48
15.5. Accessions                                                                                            A         B         -           -
TR: AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch 39
16. DEDUCTIONS
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A;
AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1 and 2

16.1. Compute Taxes (FITW, FICA,                                                                            1a        b         -           -
Medicare and SITW)
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-RVol 7A, Ch
44 and 45; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1,
Ch 56; AFMAN 65-116, ATT 6, 15,
15B
16.2 SGLI                                                                                                   A         -         -           -
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A,
Ch 46, 47; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1,
Ch 63 and 59

16.3. AFRH                                                                                                  A         -         -           -
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A,
Ch 46, 47; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1,
Ch 63 and 59

         36
1. Tasks, Knowledge and              2. Core   Certification for OJT           3. Certification for OJT       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
Technical References                 Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                              Provided (See Note)
                                                A          B           C   D    A          B          C   D      A         B         C      D
                                                                                                              3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill Level
                                                                                                              Level     Level
16.4. Thrift Savings Plan                                                                                     A         B         -          -
TR: Summary of the Thrift Savings
Plan for the Uniformed Services in
MyPay TR: DoD FMR 7000.14 Vol.
7A Ch 51; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1,
Ch 68
17. ALLOTMENTS (DEDUCTIONS)                                                                                   A         A         -          -
TR: AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch
57,58; DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A
Ch 41, 42, 43
18. INDEBTEDNESS


18.1. Types                                                                                                   A         B         -          -
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A,
Ch 50; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch
70, 71, 72
18.2. Notification                                                                                            A         B         -          -
TR: AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch 50 &
69
18.3. Repayment                                                                                               A         B         -          -
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A,
Ch 50; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch
69
18.4. Appeals and Rebuttals TR:                                                                               A         B         -          -
DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A, Ch
50; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch 69
18.5. Remission                                                                                               A         B         -          -
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A,
Ch 50; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch
69, 73
18.6. Waiver                                                                                                  A         B         -          -
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A,
Ch 50; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch
69, 73
18.7. Research Open/Suspended                                                                                 a         b         -          b
Questionable Indebtedness Listing
TR: AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch 69,
ATT 26
18.8. Garnishments                                                                                            A         B         -          -
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R, Vol. 7A,
Ch 41; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch
66
19. FINAL PAY
TR: AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch 52;
DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A Ch 35

19.1. Compute Separations                                                                                     a         b         -          -

19.2. Compute Retirements                                                                                     a         b         -          -

20. REENLISTMENTS
TR: AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch 53;
DoD FMR 7000.14 Vol. 7A Ch 9

20.1. Compute Bonus                                                                                           -         b         -          -

20.2. Compute Leave Settlement                                                                                -         b         -          -




          37
1. Tasks, Knowledge and              2. Core   Certification for OJT           3. Certification for OJT       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
Technical References                 Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                              Provided (See Note)
                                                A          B           C   D    A          B          C   D      A         B         C      D

                                                                                                              3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill Level
                                                                                                              Level     Level
21. COURTS MARTIAL
SENTENCES ANDNONJUDICIAL
PUNISHMENT
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A,
Ch 48,49; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1,
Ch 67
21.1. Fines                                                                                                   A         B         -          -

21.2. Forfeitures                                                                                             A         B         -          -

22.MILITARY PAYMENTS
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A,
Ch 32; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch
35, 36, 54
22.1. Compute Advance                                                                                         1a        b         -          -

22.2. Compute Partial                                                                                         1a        b         2b         -

22.3. Compute Casual                                                                                          1a        b         2b         -

22.4. Process Death Gratuity                                                                                  -         a         -          b

23. DEPENDENCY                                                                                                -         A         -          B
DETERMINATION
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A,
Ch 26; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch
26; JFTR Vol. 1, Ch 10; AFMAN 65-
116, Vol. 1, Ch 26
24. CIVILIAN PAY
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 8 Ch
2 and 4;
www.OPM.GOV/ASD/HTM/HID.htm

24.1. Change of Address                                                                                       -         A         -          -

24.2. Deductions                                                                                              -         A         -          -

24.3. Direct Deposit                                                                                          -         A         -          -
25. RETIRED PAY                                                                                               -         -         -          -
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R, Vol. 7B
26. GUARD AND RESERVE
COMPONENTS
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A,
Ch 57, 58, 61; AFMAN 65-116, Vol.
3 Ch 1 and 3
26.1. Status (Title 10/Title 32)                                                                              A         B         B          -
TR: Title 10/Title 32

26.2. MMPA                                                                                                    A         B         B          -

27. MILITARY AND DEPENDENT
PCS, RETIREMENT AND
SEPARATION TRAVEL
TR: JFTR Vol. 1, Ch 5; AFI 65-114,
Ch 5
27.1. Compute Leave and Allowable                                                                             2b        b         -          -
Travel Time
TR: JFTR Vol. 1, Ch 3, 5; AFI 65-
114, Ch 5, 6




          38
1. Tasks, Knowledge and              2. Core   Certification for OJT           3. Certification for OJT       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
Technical References                 Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                              Provided (See Note)
                                                A          B           C   D    A          B          C   D      A         B         C      D

                                                                                                              3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill Level
                                                                                                              Level     Level
27.2. Travel and Transportation
Options and Allowances

27.2.1. Compute CONUS-CONUS                                                                                   2b        b         -          -

27.2.2. Compute CONUS- Overseas                                                                               2b        b         -          -
or Return

27.2.3. IPCOT/COT                                                                                             A         A         -          -

27.2.4. Transportation of Student                                                                             A         A         -          -
Dependent

27.3. Dislocation Allowance                                                                                   A         A         -          -
TR: JFTR Vol. 1, Ch 5; AFI 65-114,
Ch 8
27.4. POV Shipment/Storage                                                                                    A         A         -          -
TR: JFTR Vol. 1, Ch 5; AFI 65-114,
Ch 5
27.5. Process Vouchers                                                                                        1a        b         -          -
TR: JFTR Vol. 1, Ch 5; AFI 65-114,
Ch 8
27.6. TLE                                                                                                     A         B         -          -
TR: JFTR Vol. 1, Chap 5; AFMAN
65-116, Vol. 1, Ch 41
28. CIVILIAN AND DEPENDENT
PCS TRAVEL
TR: JTR Vol. 2; AFI 65-114, Ch 10
28.1. Allowable Travel Time                                                                                   -         A         -          -
TR: JTR Vol. 2 Ch 5; AFI 65-114
Ch 5; DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 9,
Ch 6
28.2. Travel and Transportation                                                                               -         A         -          -
Allowances
TR: JTR Vol. 2, Chap 4
28.3. TQSE                                                                                                    -         A         -          -
TR: JTR Vol. 2, Chap 13

28.4. RITA/WTA                                                                                                -         A         -          -
TR: JTR Vol. 2, Ch 16; AFI 65-114,
Ch 10
28.5. House Hunting                                                                                           -         A         -          -
TR: JTR Vol. 2, Ch 4; AFI 65-114,
Ch 10

28.6. Real Estate                                                                                             -         A         -          -
TR: JTR Vol. 2, Ch 14; AFI 65-114,
Ch 10
28.7. Miscellaneous Expense TR:                                                                               -         A         -          -
JTR Vol. 2, Ch 9; AFI 65-114 Ch 10

28.8. Compute Voucher


28.8.1. CONUS-CONUS                                                                                           -         a         -          -


28.8.2. Involving Overseas                                                                                    -         a         -          -




          39
1. Tasks, Knowledge and                2. Core   Certification for OJT           3. Certification for OJT       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
Technical References                   Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                Provided (See Note)
                                                  A          B           C   D    A          B          C   D      A         B         C      D

                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                Level     Level
29. MILITARY AND CIVILIAN
TEMPORARY DUTY TRAVEL
TR: JFTR Vol. 1; JTR Vol. 2; AFI
65-114, Ch 4
29.1. Compute Leave and Allowable                                                                               2b        b         -          -
Travel Time
TR: JFTR Vol. 1, Ch 4; AFI 65-114,
Ch 4

29.2. Compute Travel and                                                                                        2b        b         -          -
Transportation Options and
Allowances
TR: JFTR Vol. 1, Ch 4; JTR Vol. 2,
Ch 4; AFI 65-114, Ch 3

29.3. Compute Accrual Vouchers                                                                                  2b        b         -          -
TR: AFI 65-114, Ch 9

29.4. Determine Reimbursable                                                                                    2b        b         -          -
Expenses
TR: JFTR Vol. 1, Ch 4; JTR Vol. 2,
Ch 4; AFI 65-114, Ch 4
29.5. Compute Guard and Reserve
Travel Vouchers
TR: JFTR Vol. 1, Ch 7
29.5.1. Active Duty Training                                                                                    1b        b         -          -
Vouchers

29.5.2. Inactive Duty Training                                                                                  1b        b         -          -
Vouchers

29.6. Process Settlement Vouchers                                                                               2b        b         -          -
TR: JFTR Vol. 1, Ch 4; JTR Vol. 2,
Ch 4; AFI 65-114, Ch 8

29.7. Centralized Travel History                                                                                A         -         -          -
Record (CTHR)

29.8. Fund Cite Letter/Message                                                                                  -         B         -          -


30. COMPUTE VICINITY TRAVEL                                                                                     1b        b         -          -
AND MISCELLANEOUS
REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES
TR: JFTR Vol. 1, Ch 2, Part H, Ch 3,
Part F; U3500; AFI 65-114, Ch 3,
par. 3.7, Ch 11, par. 11.5;
31. OVERSEAS EMERGENCY                                                                                          A         B         B          -
LEAVE
TR: JFTR Vol. 1, Ch 7; AFI 65-114,
Ch 11; AFI 65-601, Vol. 1, Ch. 10

32. COMPUTE EVACUATION
ENTITLEMENTS
TR: JFTR Vol. 1, Ch 6; JTR Vol. 2,
Ch 12; AFI 65-114, Ch 11

32.1. Emergency                                                                                                 -         a         b          -

32.2. Non-combatant                                                                                             -         a         b          -



          40
1. Tasks, Knowledge and                2. Core   Certification for OJT           3. Certification for OJT       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
Technical References                   Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                Provided (See Note)
                                                  A          B           C   D    A          B          C   D      A         B         C      D
                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                Level     Level
33. PROCESS PERSONALLY                                                                                          -         b         -          -
PROCURED MOVES
TR: JFTR Vol. 1, Ch 5; AFI 65-114,
Ch 5
34. DOUBTFUL CLAIMS                                                                                             -         A         -          B
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 5, Ch
25; Vol. 9, Ch 8; AFI 65-114, Ch 12;
JFTR Vol. 1, Ch 2
35. TRAVEL CARD PROGRAM                                                                                         A         B         -          -
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 9, Ch
3
36. DDO OPERATIONS
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 5;
DFAS-DE 7077.20-M

36.1. Appointments and Duties of
Agents
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 5, Ch
2
36.1.1. Deputy Disbursing Officer                                                                               -         A         -          A

36.1.2. Agents                                                                                                  -         A         -          A

36.1.3. Cashiers                                                                                                -         A         -          A

36.2. Safeguarding Funds,                                                                                       -         -         -          -
Negotiable Instruments, and
Vouchers
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 5, Ch
3; AFI 31-101, Ch 8
36.3. Accountability                                                                                            -         A         -          B
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 5, Ch
19
36.4. US Treasury and Limited                                                                                   -         -         -          -
Depositary Account Operations
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 5, Ch
12 – 16
36.5. Submission of Original                                                                                    -         -         -          -
Vouchers
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 5, Ch
20
37. CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 5;
AFI 10-213; AFPAM 65-110

37.1. Appointment of Agents
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 5, Ch
2
37.1.1. Prepare Disbursing Agent                                                                                -         -         b          -
Letter

37.1.2. Prepare Paying Agent Letter                                                                             -         -         b          -


37.1.3. Appoint Cashier                                                                                         -         -         2b         -

37.2. Safeguarding Funds,                                                                                       A         B         B          -
Negotiable Instruments, and
Vouchers
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 5, Ch
3; AFI 31-101, Ch 8




          41
1. Tasks, Knowledge and              2. Core   Certification for OJT           3. Certification for OJT       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
Technical References                 Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                              Provided (See Note)
                                                A          B           C   D    A          B          C   D      A         B         C      D

                                                                                                              3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill Level
                                                                                                              Level     Level
37.3. Identify Sources of Funds                                                                               -         a         2b         b
(Cash)
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R, Vol. 5,
Ch 5 and 12
37.4. Manage a Limited Depository                                                                             -         a         2b         b
Account
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 5, Ch
12 – 16
37.5. Perform Accountability
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 5 Ch
19; AFPAM 65-110 Ch 7
37.5.1. Agent                                                                                                 -         a         2b         b

37.5.2. Cashier                                                                                               1b        b         2b         -

37.6. Perform Accommodation                                                                                   1b        b         2b         -
Exchange
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 5, Ch
12
37.7. Compute Savings Deposit                                                                                 a         b         2b         -
Program Entitlement
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 7A,
Ch 51; AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch
62
37.8. Destruction of Funds                                                                                    -         b         2b         -
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 5, Ch
18
37.9 Manual AF Form 616                                                                                       a         b         2b         b
Balancing
TR: Interim Guidance on Accounting
for Commitments, Section 3;
AFPAM 65-110, Ch 6; CCFC,
Funding/ Accounting module
37.10. Safe Opening and Closing                                                                               a         b         2b         -
TR: User Guide; AFPAM 65-110, Ch
4; DoD FMR 7000.14-R, Vol. 5, par.
030302B ; AFI 31-101, The AF
Installation Security Program
37.11. Safe Combination Changing                                                                              a         b         2b         -
TR: User Guide; AFPAM 65-110, Ch
4; DoD FMR 7000.14-R, Vol. 5, par.
030302B; AFI 31-101, The AF
Installation Security Program
37.12. Prepare Vouchers                                                                                       1a        b         2b         -
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R, Vol. 5,
Ch 11 and Vol. 10, Ch 8-10
37.13. Voucher Certification                                                                                  -         b         2b         -
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R, Vol. 5,
Ch 11 and Vol. 10, Ch 8-10
37.14. Combat Comptroller
Community of Practice (CoP)
TR: AF Portal -
https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/AS
Ps/Cop/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-
FM-CC

37.14.1. Pre-deployment                                                                                       A         B         B          -

37.14.2. Deployment                                                                                           A         B         B          -

37.14.3. Post deployment                                                                                      A         B         B          -



          42
1. Tasks, Knowledge and                   2. Core   Certification for OJT           3. Certification for OJT       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
Technical References                      Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                   Provided (See Note)
                                                     A          B           C   D    A          B          C   D      A         B         C      D

                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                   Level     Level
37.14.4. War-planning and UDM                                                                                      A         B         B          -
Info

37.15. Site Survey                                                                                                 -         A         B          -
TR: AFPAM 65-110 and CoP
37.16. Prepare Agent Turn-ins                                                                                      -         a         2b         b
TR: DoD FMR Vol. 5; AFPAM 65-
110
37.17. Present Status of Funds                                                                                     -         a         2b         b
Briefing

37.18. Support Agreements TR:
DoD Regulation 7000.14-R Vol.
11A, Ch 8; AFI 25-201
37.18.1. Coalition Forces TR: DoD                                                                                  -         A         -          B
Regulation 7000.14-R Vol. 11A, Ch
8; AFI 25-301
37.18.2. Host Nation                                                                                               -         A         -          B
TR: DoD Regulation 7000.14-R Vol.
11A, Ch 8; AFI 25-301
37.18.3. Acquisition and Cross                                                                                     -         A         -          B
Service Agreements (ACSA)
TR: DoD Regulation 7000.14-R Vol.
11A, Ch 8; AFI 25-301
37.19. AF Form 15                                                                                                  -         A         -          B
TR: AFH 65-115
37.20. AF Form 315 TR: AFPAM                                                                                       -         A         -          B
65-110
37.21. Deployed Fiscal Law                                                                                         -         -         -          B
TR: Joint Pub 1-06, Appendix D1;
DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 14
37.22. Joint Deployed Operations
TR: Joint Pub 1-06,
http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/s-
index.html

37.22.1. DoD Components                                                                                            -         A         B          B


37.22.2. Joint Pubs                                                                                                -         A         B          B

37.23. Deployed Automated Tools


37.23.1. Eagle Cash                                                                                                -         -         -          -

37.23.2. Paper Check Conversion                                                                                    -         -         -          -
Over The Counter (PCC O.T.C.)
Procedures
TR:
https://www.pccotc.gov/pcc5webapp
/Login.Jsp

37.23.3. Use International Treasury                                                                                -         a         b          b
Services (ITS).Gov
TR:
http://fms.treas.gov/eft/regulations/in
ternational.html




           43
1. Tasks, Knowledge and                2. Core   Certification for OJT           3. Certification for OJT       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
Technical References                   Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                Provided (See Note)
                                                  A          B           C   D    A          B          C   D      A         B         C      D

                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                Level     Level
37.24. Process Manual Commitment
Documents
TR: DFAS-DE 7010.1-R Chap 17,
18; DFAS-DE Field Sites and
Departmental Accounting Critical
Processes, Flowcharts, Internal
Management Controls,
Responsibilities and Procedures;
DFAS-DE Interim Guidance,
Accounting for Commitments; DFAS
DE 7077.7-M; CCFC,
Funding/Accounting module
37.24.1. AF Form 9, Request for                                                                                 1a        b         2b         -
Purchase

37.24.2. AF Form 616, Fund Cite                                                                                 1a        b         2b         -
Authorization

37.24.3. AF Form 4009,                                                                                          -         -         -          -
Government Purchase Card Fund
Cite Authorization
37.24.4. DD Form 448, Military                                                                                  1a        b         2b         -
Interdepartmental Purchase
Request

37.25. Identify Sources of Funding                                                                              -         -         2b         b
TR: AFMAN 65-604

37.26. Process Manual Obligation
Documents

37.26.1. SF 1449 Contract                                                                                       -         a         2b         b

37.26.2. SF 44 Invoice/Purchase                                                                                 -         a         2b         b
Order/Receiving Report
TR: AFH 65-115; DoD FMR
7000.14-R, Vol. 10, Ch 9
37.26.3. DD 448-2 MIPR                                                                                          -         a         2b         b
Acceptance

37.26.4. Blanket Purchase                                                                                       -         a         2b         b
Agreement (BPA)

38. COST AND ECONOMICS TR:
DODM 5000-4; AFI's 65-501, 502,
503; AFMAN 65-506; AFI 65-509;
AFI 65-510; AFPD 65-5; AFMAN
32-1089; OMB Circular A94
38.1. Productivity Enhancement                                                                                  -         A         -          B
Capital Investment (PECI)

38.2. Cost Analysis

38.2.1. Develop Cost Estimates                                                                                  1b        b         -          b


38.2.2. Employ Time Value of                                                                                    1b        b         -          b
Money

38.2.3. Apply Activity Based Costing                                                                            1b        b         -          b
Principles



          44
1. Tasks, Knowledge and                2. Core   Certification for OJT           3. Certification for OJT       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
Technical References                   Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                Provided (See Note)
                                                  A          B           C   D    A          B          C   D      A         B         C      D

                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                Level     Level
38.2.4. Business Case Analysis                                                                                  1b        b         -          b
(BCA)

38.3. Accomplish Economic                                                                                       1b        b         -          b
Analysis

38.4. Law of Supply and Demand                                                                                  B         B         -          B


38.5. Perform Risk Management                                                                                   1b        b         -          b
Analysis

38.6. Perform Descriptive Statistics                                                                            1b        b         -          b


38.7. Models used to Perform Trend                                                                              A         B         -          B
Analysis

39. COMPETITIVE SOURCING                                                                                        -         A         -          B
TR: AFI 38-203; AFI 65-502; AFI 65-
503; AFI 65-504; AFM 65-507
40. ETHICS                             *                                                                        A         A         -          B
TR: The Joint Ethics Regulation
(JER), DOD 5500.7-R
41. PERFORM PUBLIC SPEAKING                                                                                     2b        -         -          -
TR: AFH 33-337

42. MANAGEMENT AND
SUPERVISION
TR: AFI 36-2101; AFI 36-2201; AFI
36-2406; AFI 36-2803; AFI 36-2907;
AFI 36-3208; AFI 36-2618; AFPAM
36-2241; AFI 65-202
42.1. Federal Manager’s Financial
Integrity Act
TR: 31 USC 3512, (c)
42.1.1. Conduct Self-Inspection                                                                                 -         a         -          b
Program
TR: AFI 65-202, AF Portal @
https://www.my.af.mil/faf/FAF/fafHo
me.jsp
Select Org, then SAF/FMPAO
42.1.2. Management Control                                                                                      -         -         -          B
Program
 TR: AFI 65-201
42.1.3. Perform Pay Record                                                                                      -         a         -          b
Accessibility and Travel Record
Audit
TR: AFMAN 65-116, Vol. 1, Ch 1;
AFI 65-202, Ch 7
42.2. Manpower Issues
TR: AFI 38-201; AFI 38-204

42.2.1. Unit Manpower Document                                                                                  -         -         -          B

42.2.2. Unit Personnel Management                                                                               -         -         -          B
Roster
42.2.3. Manpower Variance                                                                                       -         -         -          B

42.2.4. AFMS 151A – AF Manpower                                                                                 -         -         -          B
Standard



          45
1. Tasks, Knowledge and               2. Core   Certification for OJT           3. Certification for OJT       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
Technical References                  Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                               Provided (See Note)
                                                 A          B           C   D    A          B          C   D      A         B         C      D
                                                                                                               3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill Level
                                                                                                               Level     Level
42.3. Training
TR: AFI 36-2201, Ch 6, CFETP
6F0XX
42.3.1. OJT Core Task Training                                                                                 -         A         -          B
Guides
TR: AF Portal @
https://www.my.af.mil/faf/FAF/fafHo
me.jsp
Select Org, SAF/FM, Enlisted
Matters, Training Resources, Core
Tasks
42.3.2. Mission Readiness Training                                                                             -         -         -          B

42.3.3. UTC Task List                                                                                          -         A         -          B
TR: AF Portal @
https://www.my.af.mil/faf/FAF/fafHo
me.jsp
Select Functional Area, Financial
Management then Readiness and
War Planning
42.3.4. Electronic Training Records                                                                            A         A         -          B

42.4. Supervision
TR: AFI 36-2406, CFETP 6F0XX
42.4.1. Establish Standards for                                                                                -         -         -          -
Work Performance

42.4.2. Job Rotation Plans                                                                                     -         -         -          -

42.4.3. Job Performance Feedback                                                                               -         -         -          -

42.4.4 Establish Training Schedules                                                                            -         -         -          A
- UGT Requirements
 TR: CFETP 6F0XX, AFI 36-2201,
Chapter 6
42.4.5. Individual Training                                                                                    A         A         -          B
Management

42.5. Recognition Programs
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R Vol. 1,
Chap 6; AFI 36-2846
42.5.1. AF Comptroller Awards                                                                                  -         -         -          -
Program
TR: AFI 36-2846

42.5.2. Base/MAJCOM                                                                                            -         -         -          -


42.5.3. Aces High                                                                                              -         A         -          B
TR: AF Portal @
https://www.my.af.mil/faf/FAF/fafHo
me.jsp
Select Org, SAF/FM then Enlisted
Matters
42.6. Air Force Audit Program                                                                                  -         A         -          B
TR: AFPD 65-3; AFI 65-301

42.7. Mobility and Deployment
TR: AFI 10-213; AFI 10-215




          46
1. Tasks, Knowledge and                   2. Core   Certification for OJT           3. Certification for OJT       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
Technical References                      Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                   Provided (See Note)
                                                     A          B           C   D    A          B          C   D      A         B         C      D

                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                   Level     Level
42.7.1. Installation Deployment                                                                                    -         A         -          B
Plans, Pre-deployment and
Deployment Procedures
TR: AFI 10-403, Ch 2

42.7.2. Mission Capability                                                                                         -         B         -          B
Statements
TR: AFI 10-403, Ch 2
42.7.3. FM Role in the AEF Force                                                                                   A         B         -          B
Module Construct
TR: AFI 10-403, Ch 1, 5, 6, 8,
Attachment 3
42.8. Status of Resources and                                                                                      -         A         -          B
Training System-SORTS (Defense
Readiness Report System)
TR: AFI 10-201

42.9. AEF Reporting Tool-ART                                                                                       -         A         -          B
TR: AFI 10-244

43. DECISION SUPPORT
TR: AF Portal@
https://fm.csd.disa.mil/kc/login/login.
asp
AFH 33-337, AFMAN 33-326
43.1. Basic Elements (Customer                                                                                     A         A         -          B
and Mission)

43.2. Problem Solving and Conflict                                                                                 A         A         -          B
Resolution

43.3. Critical Thinking (Weighing                                                                                  A         A         -          B
Options and Presenting
Recommendations)

43.4. Narrative (Cause and Effect)                                                                                 -         A         -          B
Writing Skills

43.5. Persuasive Communication                                                                                     -         A         -          B
Skills
(Influencing/Negotiating/Networking)

43.6. Meeting Dynamics (Brevity,                                                                                   -         A         -          B
Time Management)

43.7. Continuous Improvement                                                                                       -         A         -          B
Techniques (Value Based
Concepts)

44. Microsoft Office Suites

44.1. Word                                                                                                         -         -         -          -

44.2. Excel                                                                                                        -         -         -          -

44.3. PowerPoint                                                                                                   -         -         -          -

44.4. Access                                                                                                       -         -         -          -




           47
1. Tasks, Knowledge and                2. Core   Certification for OJT           3. Certification for OJT       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
Technical References                   Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                Provided (See Note)
                                                  A          B           C   D    A          B          C   D      A         B         C      D

                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                Level     Level
45. FM Systems

45.1. Financial Services Systems


45.1.1. Use Defense Travel System                                                                               2b        b         -          -
(DTS)
TR:
http://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/Tr
aining/DTS/Training_Main.cfm
 or
https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/com
munity/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-
FM-MJ-29
45.1.2.Use Reserve Travel System                                                                                1a        b         -          -
(RTS)
TR:
https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASP
s/docman/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&Fo
lderID=AF-FM-EF-00-92&Filter=AF-
FM-EF-00
45.1.3 Use Defense Joint Military                                                                               1a        b         -          -
Pay System (DJMS)
 TR:
https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASP
s/docman/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&Fo
lderID=AF-FM-EF-00-9&Filter=AF-
FM-EF-00
45.1.4. Use Defense MILPAY Office                                                                               2b        b         -          -
(DMO)
TR:
http://www.dfas.mil/more/defensemil
payofficesoftware.html
45.1.5. Use Case Management                                                                                     a         b         -          -
System (CMS)
TR:
https://w20.afpc.randolph.af.mil/CM
SNET20/Default.aspx
Click on 'CMS User Guide


45.1.6. Central Disbursing System                                                                               -         -         -          -
(CDS)

45.1.7. Use Financial Management                                                                                a         b         -          -
Workflow (FMWF)

45.1.8. Defense Civilian Pay System                                                                             -         -         -          -
(DCPS)
TR:
https://dfas4dod.dfas.mil/systems/dc
ps/consolid/cbt/cbttoc.htm
 and
https://dfas4dod.dfas.mil/systems/dc
ps/consolid/dcpsmanuals
45.1.9. Air Force Integrated                                                                                    -         -         -          -
Personnel and Pay System
(AFIPPS)

45.2. Decision Support Systems




          48
1. Tasks, Knowledge and                   2. Core   Certification for OJT           3. Certification for OJT       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
Technical References                      Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                   Provided (See Note)
                                                     A          B           C   D    A          B          C   D      A         B         C      D

                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                   Level     Level

45.2.1. Use Commanders Resource                                                                                    1a        b         -          -
Information System (CRIS)
TR:
https://fm.csd.disa.mil/kc/login/login.
asp
 Keyword CRIS
45.2.2 FM Suite                                                                                                    A         -         -          -

45.2.3 DFAS Transaction Interface                                                                                  A         -         -          -
Module (DTIM)
TR: AFAFO - Base Level
Accounting Procedures & Guidance
CoP:
https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASP
s/docman/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&Fo
lderID=OO-FM-AF-0123&Filter=OO-
FM-AF-01
45.2.4. Wide Area Work Flow                                                                                        A         -         -          -
(WAWF)
TR:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/doc
man/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&FolderI
D=AF-FM-XF-01-10&Filter=AF-FM-
XF-01

45.2.5. Use Automated Business                                                                                     1a        b         -          -
Services System (ABSS)
TR:
https://fm.csd.disa.mil/kc/login/login.
asp
 Keyword ABSS
45.2.6. Use General Accounting and                                                                                 1a        b         -          -
Finance System (GAFS)
TR:
https://ceds.ssg.gunter.af.mil/pubs.a
sp?Ais=1930

45.2.7. Defense Enterprise                                                                                         -         A         -          -
Accounting and Management
System (DEAMS)
TR:
https://www.deams.org/SP2M/index.
htm

45.2.8. Government Purchase Card                                                                                   -         A         -          -
(GPC) System


45.2.9. Purchase Card On-Line                                                                                      -         A         -          -
System (PCOLS)
TR:
https://acc.dau.mil/CommunityBrows
er.aspx?id=213561

45.2.10. Government Travel Card                                                                                    -         A         -          -
(GTC) System


45.2.11. Online Report Viewing                                                                                     -         B         -          -
(OLRV)



           49
1. Tasks, Knowledge and                   2. Core   Certification for OJT           3. Certification for OJT       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
Technical References                      Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                   Provided (See Note)
                                                     A          B           C   D    A          B          C   D      A         B         C      D

                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                   Level     Level
45.2.12. Base Accounts Receivable                                                                                  -         -         -          -
System (BARS)

45.2.13. Obligation Adjustment                                                                                     -         A         -          -
Reporting System (OARS)
TR:
https://OARS.HQ.AF.MIL;
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/Doc
Man/DOCMain.asp?Filter=OO-FM-
MJ-11&FolderID=OO-FM-MJ-11-
26&Tab=0
45.2.14. Electronic Document                                                                                       -         A         -          -
Access, Electronic Document
Management (EDA/EDM)
TR:
http://www.dfas.mil/contractorpay/el
ectroniccommerce/electronicdocum
entaccesseda.html

45.2.15. Defense Medical Logistics                                                                                 -         A         -          -
Standard Support (DMLSS)
TR: AFMAN 41-216, Section 2B
45.3. Automated Funds                                                                                              -         A         -          B
Management (AFM)
TR:
https://fm.csd.disa.mil/kc/login/login.
asp
Keyword AFM
45.4 Other FM Systems

45.4.1. LeaveWeb                                                                                                   -         A         -          -
TR:
https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/com
munity/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-
FM-LW-01

45.4.2. MyPay                                                                                                      -         A         -          -
TR:
https://mypay.dfas.mil/mypay.aspx

45.4.3. e-Finance                                                                                                  A         -         -          -

45.4.4. PCS In-Processing System                                                                                   A         -         -          -
(PIPS)




           50
