DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                             CFETP 3P0X1/X1A/X1B
Headquarters US Air Force                                                                        Parts I and II
Washington DC 20330-1030                                                                      11 January 2010




                                            AFSCs 3P0X1/X1A/X1B

                                   SECURITY FORCES SPECIALTY
                            MILITARY WORKING DOG HANDLER SPECIALTY
                                    COMBAT ARMS SPECIALTY




                                        CAREER FIELD EDUCATION

                                            AND TRAINING PLAN


ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for
downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                        CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                          SECURITY FORCES SPECIALTY (AFSC 3P0X1)
                  MILITARY WORKING DOG HANDLER SPECIALTY (AFSC 3P0X1A)
                           COMBAT ARMS SPECIALTY (AFSC 3P0X1B)


                                           TABLE OF CONTENTS

PART I

Preface                                                                   1

Abbreviations/Terms Explained                                             2

Section A, General Information                                            4
         Purpose
         Use
         Coordination and Approval

Section B, Career Field Progression and Information                       5
         Specialty Descriptions
         Duties and Responsibilities
         Skill/Career Progression
                  Apprentice Level (3)
                  Journeyman Level (5)
                  Craftsman Level (7)
                  Superintendent Level (9)
                  Training Decisions
                  Community College of the Air Force (CCAF)
         Career Field Path

Section C, Skill Level Training Requirements                             11
         Purpose
         Training Requirements
                  Apprentice Level (3)
                  Journeyman Level (5)
                  Craftsman Level (7)
                  Superintendent Level (9)

Section D, Resource Constraints                                          14

Section E, Transition Training Guide                                     14


PART II

Section A, Specialty Training Standard (STS)                             15

Section B, Course Objective List                                         16

Section C, Support Materials                                             16

Section D, Training Course Index                                         16

Section E, Major Command Unique Requirements                             17


                                                     ii
STS Attachments

Appendix A, Security Forces Core STS                                                 A-1

Appendix B, Military Working Dog STS                                                 B-1

Appendix C, Combat Arms STS                                                          C-1




___________________________________________________________________________________________
OPR: HQ AFSFC/SFXT (MSgt Wilson, DSN 945-1584)
Certified by: AF/A7SM (CMSgt Zidack)
Supersedes: CFETP 3P0X1/X1A/X1B, 5 January 2006; 3P0X1/X1A/X1B C1, 3 March 2009; 3P0X1/X1A/X1B
C2, 11 June 2009
Pages: 73
                                                 iii
                            CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                   SECURITY FORCES SPECIALTY
                            MILITARY WORKING DOG HANDLER SPECIALTY
                                     COMBAT ARMS SPECIALTY
                                       AFSCs 3P0X1/X1A/X1B


PART I

PREFACE

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive core-training document. It identifies
life-cycle education and training requirements, training support resources and minimum core task requirements for
the Security Forces (SF) specialty. This CFETP provides all SF personnel [active duty, reserve and Air National
Guard (ANG)] a clear career path to success.

2. This CFETP consists of two parts; both parts of the plan assist supervisors in planning, managing and controlling
training within the career field.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A explains how
everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field path progression information, duties and responsibilities
and training strategies. Section C associates each skill level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, training,
education, experience and other). Section D indicates resource constraints (for example; funds, manpower,
equipment and facilities).

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A contains the Specialty Training Standard(s) supervisors will use to
certify training. Section B course objective list/training standards (Not Used). Section C identifies available support
materials provided by Air Force Handbooks (AFHs) and Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (TTP) Guides. Section
D identifies where supervisors can find and determine resources available to support training, including both
mandatory and optional courses. Section E is reserved to identify major command (MAJCOM) unique training
requirements. Unit level supervisors and trainers use Part II to identify, plan and conduct training commensurate
with the overall goals of this plan. The core Specialty Training Standard (STS) for AFSC 3P0X1, Appendix A;
Military Working Dog STS (AFSC 3P0X1A) Appendix B; and Combat Arms (AFSC 3P0X1B) Appendix C,
identify the duties, tasks and technical references required to support unit training; establish Air Education and
Training Command (AETC) training requirements; identify core/wartime tasks; and identify correspondence course
requirements.

3. CFETP guidance ensures individuals in this specialty receive effective and efficient training at the appropriate
point in their careers. This plan will enable us to train today's work force for tomorrow's jobs. At the unit level,
supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall
goals of this plan.




                                                           1
ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training (AT). Formal course that provides individuals qualified in one or more positions of their Air
Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance their expertise in the career field. Training is for
selected career airmen at the advanced level of an AFS.

Air Force Handbook (AFH). A concise reference book on the technical aspect of a particular subject or a
compilation of factual data and instructional material not subject to frequent change.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A comprehensive, multipurpose document encapsulating
the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field. It outlines a logical growth path, including training
resources, eliminates duplication, and makes training identifiable and budget defensible.

Continuation Training. Training beyond requirements with emphasis on present or future duty assignments.

Core Task. Required by AFS functional managers as minimum qualification within an AFS or duty position.

Education and Training Course Announcement (ETCA). A complete list of the formal courses available.
https://etca.randolph.af.mil/

Exportable Training. Supplemental training; via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video, or other means.

Field Manual (FM). US Army publication used to define key training requirements for certain SF tasks. Use US
Army FMs for training only when a FM is listed as a STS line item task training reference.

Initial Skills Training. A formal school course that results in award of a 3-skill level Air Force specialty code
(AFSC). (May also include a “qualifying” course before the AFSC awarding course.)

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and flexible process for planning, developing, and
managing training systems, ensuring a cost efficient way to provide job essential knowledge and skills.

Objective Statement. Specifies desired behavior, condition of behavior, and the minimum standard of performance.

Occupational Survey Report (OSR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational survey of tasks
performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). An on-duty training method to certify personnel in both upgrade (skill level award)
and job qualification (duty position certification) training. It is hands-on, over-the-shoulder training.

Qualification Training. Actual hands-on task performance-based training designed to qualify airmen in a specific
duty position. This training program occurs during and after the upgrade training process. It provides the
performance skills training required to do the job.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies such as money, facilities, manpower, and equipment, which preclude
delivery of, desired training.

Specialty Training. A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (on-the-job) to qualify and
upgrade airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force Specialty in terms of
tasks and knowledge that an airman in that specialty performs or knows on the job. It further serves as a contract
between Air Education and Training Command (AETC) and the functional user to show overall training
requirements taught in formal schools, Career Development Courses (CDCs) and exportable training courses.

Standard. A fixed quantity or quality.


                                                            2
Sustainment Training. Training conducted to sustain skills or knowledge previously acquired.

Task. A unit of work activity or operation which forms a significant part of a duty. A task usually has clear
beginning and ending points and is directly observable or measurable.

Training Manual (TM). US Army publication used to define key training requirements for certain SF tasks. Use
US Army TMs for training only when a TM is listed as a STS line item task training reference.

Upgrade Training (UGT). Mandatory training that leads to the award of a higher skill level.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum of Air Force and major command functional managers,
subject matter experts, and AETC training personnel that determines Specialty Training Standard requirements and
responsibilities for a specialty.

Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (TTP) Guide. A comprehensive information resource package on SF
subjects, procedures, or equipment. TTP Guides contain text and test material for qualification and sustainment
training, or skills/knowledge enhancement. TTP Guides are suitable for either individual or classroom use. TTP
Guides are available on the HQ AFSFC web site.




                                                          3
SECTION A - GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Purpose. Career field managers, commanders, training managers, supervisors, trainers and the training wing use
this CFETP to plan, develop, manage and conduct an effective career field training program. This plan outlines the
training individuals in AFSC 3P0X1/X1A/X1B must receive to develop and progress throughout their careers. It
identifies initial skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced and continuation training requirements. Initial skills training
is the AFS specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force, retraining into this specialty or
lateral training into either the A or B shred-out. AETC provides this training at Lackland AFB TX for AFSC
3P0X1/X1A/X1B. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, CDCs and
exportable training courses required for award of the 5-, 7-, and 9-skill levels. Qualification training is actual hands-
on task performance training designed to qualify an Airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs
both during and after the upgrade training process. It provides the performance skills/knowledge training required to
do the job. The CFETP also serves the following purposes:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct and evaluate a career field training program. It also
helps supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an individual's career.

1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in these specialties and recommends
training/education throughout each phase of an individual's career.

1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training and the training delivery method.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints which impact implementation of desired career field training program.

2. Use. MAJCOM functional managers (MFMs) and supervisors at all levels will use this plan to develop
comprehensive and cohesive training programs for each individual in these specialties.

2.1. AETC training personnel develop/revise formal resident and exportable training based on requirements
established by users and documented in Part II of this CFETP. They will also work with the Air Force Career Field
Manager (AFCFM) to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified
training.

2.2. The MFMs will ensure MAJCOM training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial skills and
upgrade requirements. OJT, resident training, contract training or exportable courseware/courses satisfy identified
requirements. MAJCOMS must identify MAJCOM-developed training to support this AFS for inclusion in this plan
and must not duplicate training already available.

2.3. Headquarters, Air Force Security Forces Center (HQ AFSFC) develops publications on specific SF subjects,
procedures or equipment. MAJCOMs or local units select and localize these publications to fit their needs.

3. Coordination and Approval. HQ AFSFC/SFXT develops this CFETP. The approval authority is AF/A7SM,
the AFCFM. MAJCOM Functional Managers and AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on the
career field training requirements. The AETC Training Pipeline Manager for this specialty will initiate an annual
review of this document by the AFCFM, AETC and MFMs to ensure currency and accuracy.




                                                             4
SECTION B - CAREER FIELD PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION

1. Specialty Description. SF personnel perform force protection duties, including the use of deadly force, to
protect personnel and resources. SF duties ensure combat capability through the functions of installation security,
nuclear and conventional weapon systems and resources security, Integrated Defense (ID), police services, military
working dog (MWD) activities, and combat arms (CA). SF functions will be performed during peacetime,
contingency, and wartime operations. Personnel in this career field will be deployed and employed in sensitive or
hostile environments created by terrorism, sabotage, nuclear, chemical, biological or conventional warfare. SF
members perform the military police function within the Air Force. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup is 107000.

2. Duties and Responsibilities

2.1. Leads, manages, supervises, and performs force protection duties, including use of deadly force to protect
personnel and resources. Protects nuclear and conventional weapons systems and other resources. Performs
integrated defense functions contributing to the force protection mission. Controls and secures terrain inside and
outside military installations. Defends personnel, equipment, and resources from hostile forces. Operates in various
field environments, performs individual, and team patrol movements, both mounted and dismounted, tactical drills,
battle procedures, convoys, crisis response and limited contingency operations, antiterrorism duties, and other
special duties. Operates communications equipment, vehicles, intrusion detection equipment, crew-served weapons,
and other special purpose equipment. Applies self-aid buddy care, life saving procedures, including
cardiopulmonary resuscitation, as first responder to accident and disaster scenes.

2.2. Provides armed response and controls entry. Detects and reports presence of unauthorized personnel and
activities. Implements security reporting and alerting system. Enforces standards of conduct, discipline, and
adherence to laws and directives. Directs vehicle and pedestrian traffic. Investigates motor vehicle accidents, minor
crimes, and incidents. Operates speed measuring, drug and alcohol, and breath test devices. Apprehends and detains
suspects. Searches persons and property. Secures crime and incident scenes. Collects, seizes, and preserves
evidence. Conducts interviews of witnesses and suspects. Obtains statements and testifies in official judicial
proceedings. Responds to disaster and relief operations. Participates in contingencies.

2.3. Develops plans, policies, procedures, and detailed instructions to implement SF programs. Plans, organizes,
and schedules SF activities. Operates pass and registration activities. Supervises and trains SF augmentees.
Provides on-scene supervision for security forces. Inspects and evaluates effectiveness of SF personnel and
activities. Analyzes reports and statistics.

2.4. Provides guidance on employment and utilization of military working dog teams. Ensures proficiency training
and certification standards are maintained. Employs military working dogs to support worldwide security force
operations and executive agency requirements. Ensures health and welfare of military working dogs. Trains
handlers and military working dogs on all aspects of military working dog training. Acts as an intruder in dog bite
and hold training. Reports and reacts to dog alerts. Maintains dog training and usage records. Responsible for
storage, handling, and security of drug and explosive training aids.

2.5. Leads, manages, supervises, and implements ground weapons training programs. Operates SF armories.
Controls and safeguards arms, ammunition, and equipment. Instructs ground weapons qualification training.
Provides guidance on weapons placement to security forces and ground defense force commanders. Inspects ground
weapons and replaces unserviceable parts. Analyzes malfunctions by inspection and serviceability testing. Uses
precision gauges, testing instruments, and special tools to adjust parts and operating mechanisms. Function-fires
weapons for accuracy and serviceability. Controls and operates firing ranges and associated facilities, to include
supervising construction and rehabilitation and certifies other users on range utilization procedures.

3. Skill and Career Progression. It is essential that everyone involved in training contribute to an effective
training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will ensure individuals receive training at the
appropriate points in their careers.

3.1. Training Decisions. This CFETP includes life-cycle training requirements for this specialty. Included in this
spectrum was the strategy of when, where and how to meet these training requirements. The strategy is apparent,

                                                         5
reduces duplication and eliminates a fragmented approach to training.

3.1.1. Apprentice Level Training (3).

3.1.1.1. Initial skills training in these specialties consists of the task and knowledge training provided in the SF
Apprentice Course, the MWD Handler Course and the Combat Arms Apprentice Course.

3.1.1.2. The STS task listings located at Appendices A, B and C identify task and knowledge training requirements.
In response to a wartime scenario, an asterisk (*) in the far left column on the STSs indicates a reduced number of
tasks that will be taught to the task or knowledge level indicated in the 3-skill level course column in a streamlined
technical training environment.

3.1.1.3. Completion of the SF Apprentice Course is required for award of AFSC 3P031. Completion of the MWD
Handler Course is required for award of AFSC 3P0X1A. Completion of the Combat Arms Apprentice Course is
required for award of AFSC 3P0XlB.

3.1.2. Journeyman Level Training (5).

3.1.2.1. Completion of the SF journeyman (5-level) career development course (CDC) and requirements listed in
Table 1, are mandatory for award of AFSC 3P051. Specialty wide core tasks are identified in column 2 (core tasks)
by skill level.

3.1.2.2. Personnel must complete the MWD Handler CDC and requirements listed in Table 1, (see note, “must
complete core 3P0X1 upgrade requirements prior to entry”) for upgrade to the Suffix A, 5-skill level.

3.1.2.3. Personnel must complete the Combat Arms CDC and requirements listed in Table 1, (see note, “must
complete core 3P0X1 upgrade requirements prior to entry”) for upgrade to the Suffix B, 5-skill level.

3.1.3. Craftsman Level Training (7).

3.1.3.1. Completion of the SF 7-level CDCs is a prerequisite for attending the 7-level Craftsman Course.
Completion of the requirements listed in Table 1, are mandatory for award of AFSC 3P071. Specialty wide core
tasks are identified in column 2 (core tasks) by skill level.

3.1.3.2. Personnel performing duties in AFSCs 3P051, 3P051A, and 3P051B must complete core SF 3P071 upgrade
training requirements.

3.1.3.3. Personnel awarded 3P051A or the MWD Handler SEI 311 who hold the position of MWD trainer or
kennel-master must complete the MWD Trainer/Supervisor Course.

3.1.3.4. Personnel awarded 3P051B or the Combat Arms SEI 312 who hold the position(s) of Combat Arms/Armory
NCOIC or Logistics Superintendent should complete the Combat Arms Supervisors Course. Supervisors of these
personnel that do not have a 312 SEI assigned as Combat Arms/Armory NCOIC, may also attend this course.

3.1.4. Superintendent Level Training (9). To earn award of AFSC 3P091, an individual must attain the rank of
SMSgt and satisfy any other requirement specified in AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and
Enlisted). Continuation training in certain areas is available for use on specific training needs.

3.2. Special Experience Identifiers (SEI). SEIs identify special experience and training not otherwise identified
within the personnel data system (PDS). SEIs complement the assignment process but are not substitutes for AFSCs,
prefixes or suffixes. They are established when identifying experience or training is critical to the job and
assignment match and no other identification is appropriate or available. SEIs permit identification of a resource
already experienced to meet unique circumstances, contingency requirements, or management needs. They provide a
means to track individuals and identify positions requiring or providing unique experience or training that otherwise
would be lost. Refer to AFI 36-2101, for a more detailed explanation of SEIs. A complete listing of SEIs can be
found on the Air Force Personnel Center’s web site, in the Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD).

                                                            6
The SEIs most often associated with the Security Forces Career field are listed below in numerical order; verify the
following information with AFECD to insure requirements are up-to-date.

SEI 031, Crime Prevention/ Resource Protection. Requires (1) completion of AFIT course WCIPO7A, Crime
Prevention Theory, Practice, and Management (PDS code 1F2); (2) 12 months of experience in crime
prevention/resources protection duties; and (3) recommendation by the base CSF.

SEI 310, Security Forces Non-Lethal Weapons Instructor. Requires successful completion of the 10-day Inter-
service Non-lethal Individual Weapons Instructor Course (INLWIC, L5AZA3P071 019 (PDS code WIC) at Fort
Leonard Wood MO; certification by immediate supervisor that the individual has instructed two classes within one
year of completing the INLWIC; and commander’s recommendation.

SEI 311, Military Working Dog Handler. Requires prior qualification in and possession of AFSC 3P051A. Award
SEI to AFSC 3P0X1 when personnel upgrade from AFSC 3P051A to 3P071 and reach the grade of TSgt.

SEI 312, Combat Arms. Requires prior qualification in and possession of AFSC 3P051B. Award SEI to AFSC
3P0X1 when personnel upgrade from AFSC 3P051B to 3P071 and reach the grade of TSgt.

SEI 313, Security Forces Sharpshooter. Requires commander’s recommendation, completion of the 14-day Close
Precision Engagement Course, (Course ID CPEC, PDS Code SFE), and completion of an additional six months of
mandatory sharpshooter sustainment training as outlined in SFOI 31-1, Close Precision Engagement, Attachment 6.
Personnel must be in the grades of SrA thru MSgt.

SEI 321, Security Forces Investigator. Requires completion of L5AZA3P071 0S5A, (PDS Code RZA); or previous
courses: L5AZA81172-000, Military Police Investigations (PDS code RZ4), or 50BO8200-000, Special Investigator
(PDS code 0D8); or one of the following MAJCOM conducted Military Police Investigator (MPI) courses
(completed on or after 1 Jul 85): MP-94, 830-85V, or 830-ASI-V5. Also, requires 12 months of experience as a full
time security police investigator and recommendation of the base CSF.

SEI 323, Electronic Security Systems. Requires completion of one of the following courses: L3AZR81150-008
(PDS code ZMV), L4AST81150-007 (PDS code ZMV), L3AZR81150-012 (PDS code 4FR), L4AST81150-012
(PDS code 4FR), L4AST81150-011 (PDS code 4FS), L2AZR3P071-000 (PDS code 8IN) (created Jul 98),
L3AZR3P071-009 (PDS code 849) (created Oct 97), L3AZR3P071-012, (PDS code CJO), or L6AZS3P071-000
(PDS code CLO); or completion of both L4AST81150-001 (PDS code T4A) and one of the following courses:
L4AST81150-005 (PDS code YO8), L4AST81150-008 (PDS code 2K6), L5AST81150-013 (PDS code 4FT), or
L6AZS81150-000 (PDS code 4FR).

SEI 329, Phoenix Raven. Complete the Phoenix Raven Course (PDS code 691) and two flying missions as team
leader or team member to Raven required locations and commander’s recommendation.

SEI 389, Acquisition Security. Requires completion of a basic systems acquisition course, Air Force Materiel
Command course MWE-OPS0002300SU, and 12 months of experience in systems security engineering
management, systems security management, or security programming duties.

SEI 816, Nuclear Security Qualified. Requires Personnel Reliability Program (PRP) status code of “D” or “J”,
Nuclear Experience Identifier (NEI) code of “E” or “I”, plus 12 months (minimum) performing or supporting nuclear
security at installations tasked with day-to-day nuclear operations, Commander’s formal recommendation, and
certification.

SEI 822, Nuclear Manager. Requires successful completion of the Air Force Nuclear Management Fundamentals
Course, MKVSC93000501SU (PDS code: 2X1) for 3P000/91.

3.3. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Academic Programs. Automatic enrollment in CCAF occurs
upon completion of basic military training. CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain Associates in Applied Science
Degree. The academic requirements for completion of the Criminal Justice Degree Program (CCAF Catalog: 9IJY)
are listed below. NOTE: These requirements are subject to change; refer to current CCAF catalog for specifics.

                                                          7
Students enrolled in those programs have six years from the date of degree program registration to complete the
program.

3.3.1. Degree Requirements: Program completion requires attainment of journeyman (5-skill) level.

                                                             Semester
Topic                                                        Hours
Technical Education                                          24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies                 6
Physical Education                                           4
General Education                                            15
Program Elective                                             15
Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and
Military Studies; or General Education
Total                                                        64

3.3.2. Technical Education (24 SH): A minimum of 12 semester hours in Technical Core subjects and the
remaining semester hours applied from Technical Core/Technical Elective subjects. Requests to substitute
subjects/courses require advanced approval from the Services Branch at CCAF, (contact the base education office).

Technical Core

                                                             Semester
Subjects/Courses                                             Hours
CCAF Internship                                              18
Criminal Investigations                                      16
Criminal Law                                                 6
Fundamentals of Ground Combat Skills                         8
Fundamentals of Law Enforcement                              9
Introduction to Security                                     6
Physical Security Concepts                                   6
Police Administration and Supervision                        6
Principles of Criminal Justice                               6
Principles of Marksmanship                                   9
Special Weapons and Tactics                                  6




                                                         8
Technical Electives

                                                              Maximum
                                                              Semester
Subjects/Courses                                              Hours
Antiterrorism                                                 3
Instructional Methodology                                     6
Computer Science                                              6
Constitutional Law                                            3
Corrections                                                   6
Criminalistics/Forensic Science                               3
Criminology                                                   3
Emergency Medicine                                            4
General Psychology                                            3
General Sociology                                             3
Juvenile Justice                                              3
Patrol Dog Operations                                         8
Police-Community Relations                                    3
Technical Writing                                             3
Traffic Management/Investigation                              6
Weapons Maintenance                                           6

3.3.3. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 SH): Professional military education (PME) or civilian
management courses accepted in transfer, and/or by testing credit. The preferred method of completing Leadership,
Management, and Military Studies is through attendance at an Airman Leadership School, NCO Academy, and the
Air Force Senior NCO Academy. However, civilian courses that emphasize fundamentals of managing human or
materiel resources may also apply.

3.3.4. Physical Education (4 SH): Basic military training satisfies this requirement.

3.3.5. General Education (15 SH): Courses accepted in transfer or by testing credit satisfies this requirement.

                                                                                   Semester
Subjects/Courses                                                                   Hours
Oral Communication (Speech)                                                        3
Written Communication (English Composition)                                        3
Mathematics                                                                        3
Intermediate algebra or a college-level mathematics course satisfying delivering
institution’s mathematics requirement for graduation. If an acceptable
mathematics course applies as a Technical or Program Elective, a natural
science course may be substituted for mathematics.
Social Science                                                                     3
Anthropology, Archaeology, Economics, Geography, Government, History,
Political Science, Psychology, Sociology
Humanities                                                                         3
Fine Arts (Criticism, Appreciation, Historical Significance), Foreign Language,
Literature, Philosophy, Religion

3.3.6. Program Elective (15 SH): Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General
Education requirements including: natural science courses meeting General Education Requirement application
criteria; foreign language credit earned at the Defense Language Institute or through the Defense Language
Proficiency Test; maximum 9 SHs of CCAF degree-applicable technical course credit otherwise not applicable to
program of enrollment.


                                                          9
3.4. Occupational Instructor Certification. Upon completion of instructor qualification training, consisting of an
instructor methods course and supervised practice teaching, CCAF instructors (enlisted, officer, and civilian) may be
nominated by their school commander/commandant for certification as an occupational instructor. Those interested
can find the eligibility requirements in the CCAF General Catalog.




                                                         10
   4. Career Field Path

   Table 1. Enlisted Career Path

                                                                        GRADE REQUIREMENTS
                                                                        Rank  Average Earliest              High Year Of
 Education and Training Requirements                                          Sew-On  Sew-On                Tenure
 Basic Military Training school
 Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)                            Amn       6-10
                                                                        A1C       months
  Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level)                                 SrA       36           20 or 28     12 years
- Minimum 12 months OJT.                                                          months       months
  - Complete appropriate CDC.
  - Complete all 5 level core tasks in the applicable STS and other
    duty position tasks identified by the supervisor. NOTE:
    Retraining personnel are eligible for 5-level upgrade after a
    minimum of 9 months in upgrade training. Active duty personnel
    may enter AFSC 3P0X1A and 3P0X1B from the core AFSC
    3P0X1.
  Airman Leadership School (ALS)                                      Trainer
  - Must be a SrA with 48 months TIS or be a SSgt Selectee.         - Must be qualified to perform task.
  - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt sew-on (Active   - Trainers will sign-off trainee’s records by initialing
    Duty Only).                                                       the trainer’s column.
  - AFRC and ANG may attend ALS or complete the PME                 - Must attend formal AF Training Course and be
    correspondence course 0001, (NCO Preparation Course)              recommended by the supervisor.
  Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)                                SSgt       7.5 years     3 years      20 years
  - Minimum rank of SSgt.
  - 12 months OJT.
  - Complete appropriate CDC, prior to attending the in-resident
    Craftsman Course.
  - Complete applicable 7 level core tasks in the core STS.
  - Attend resident craftsman course.
    NOTE: Personnel in retraining status are subject to six months
    OJT.
                                                                        Certifier not required for SF personnel after
                                                                        1 April 2004
 Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)                                 TSgt      12.5 years 5 years      24 years
 - Must be a TSgt or TSgt selectee.
 - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt sew-on (Active
   Duty Only).
 USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)                                        MSgt      16 years      8 years     26 years
 - Must be a SMSgt/SMSgt selectee or MSgt identified for                SMSgt     19.2 years    11 years    28 years
   attendance.
 - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for CMSgt sew-on (Active
   Duty Only).
 Upgrade To Superintendent (9-Skill Level)
 - Minimum rank of SMSgt.
 Upgrade to Security Forces Manager                                     CMSgt     21.5 years    14 years    30 years
 - Attend resident Chief Master Sergeant Leadership Course
   (MCLC001) as CMSgt-select or CMSgt




                                                             11
SECTION C - SKILL LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

1. Purpose. This CFETP defines skill levels in terms of tasks and knowledge requirements. This section outlines
the specialty qualification requirements for each skill in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory
requirements for entry, award, and retention of each skill level. The STSs located in the appendices of this CFETP.

2. Training Requirements.

2.1. Apprentice Level (3).

2.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: SF weaponry; laws, directives, programs and policies, procedures
governing SF activities including installation security, weapon system and resource security, antiterrorism, law
enforcement and investigations, MWD function, ID, armament and equipment, training, pass and registration and
combat arms.

2.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school with courses in government, behavioral
science, computer and communicative skills is desirable.

2.1.3. Training. The following training is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:

2.1.3.1. 3P031. Completion of the SF apprentice course satisfies the knowledge and training requirements for award
of the 3-skill level.

2.1.3.2. 3P0X1A. Completion of the MWD handler apprentice course. NOTE: SF members must possess AFSC
3P051 prior to entering the MWD handler apprentice course. Direct entry of active duty AFSC 3P031 and prior
service personnel may be permitted by HQ USAF/A7SM as required.

2.1.3.3. 3P0XlB. Mechanical score of 35 or better on the ASVAB, completion of the combat arms apprentice
course. NOTE: ANG and reserve personnel may enter this course directly (pipeline) from the SF apprentice course.
ANG units must have a waiver approved by ANG/A7S prior to submitting a school request. After graduation, they
must complete all core and combat arms upgrade requirements. NOTE: Active duty SF members must possess
AFSC 3P051 prior to entry. Direct entry of active duty AFSC 3P031 and prior service personnel may be permitted
by HQ USAF/A7SM as required.

2.1.4. Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:

2.1.4.1. 3P031. There is no mandatory military or civilian experience required for award of AFSC 3P031.

2.1.4.2. 3P031A. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3P051. Also, experience in SF weaponry controlling
entry into and providing internal control within installations and restricted areas, response force tactics, ID concepts
and procedures, terrorist threat response techniques, alarm monitor duties, control center duties, traffic control,
patrolling or accident investigation.

2.1.4.3. 3P031B. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3P051. Also, experience in SF weaponry controlling
entry into and providing internal control within installations and restricted areas, response force tactics, ID concepts
and procedures, terrorist threat response techniques, alarm monitor duties, control center duties, traffic control,
patrolling or accident investigation. NOTE: ANG and reserve personnel may enter this course directly (pipeline)
from the SF Apprentice Course. ANG units must have a waiver approved by ANG/A7S prior to submitting a school
request.

2.1.5. Other. The following are mandatory as indicated. For entry, award and retention of AFSCs
3P0X1/X1A/X1B:

2.1.5.1. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examination and Standards.

2.1.5.2. No recorded evidence of personality disorder.

                                                           12
2.1.5.3. Visual acuity correctable to 20/20 in one eye and 20/30 in the other.

2.1.5.4. Qualification to bear firearms IAW AFI 31-207, Arming and Use Of Force By Air Force Personnel and the
Launtenberg Amendment to the Gun Control Act of 1968.

2.1.5.5. Never convicted by a general, special or summary courts-martial.

2.1.5.6. Never received non-judicial punishment under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) which resulted
in either reduction or suspended reduction in grade, or correctional custody for offenses involving substantiated drug
abuse as defined in AFI 36-2701, Social Actions Program, acts of larceny, wrongful appropriation, robbery,
burglary, housebreaking, or misconduct in combat as delineated in UCMJ articles 99-106.

2.1.5.7. Never been convicted by a civilian court of a Category 1, 2 or 3 offenses, nor exceeded the accepted
number of Category 4 offenses. Category 3 and 4 traffic offenses alone are not disqualifying. NOTE: Categories of
offenses are described and listed in AFI 36-2002, Regular Air Force and Special Category Accession, and Uniform
Guide List of Typical Offenses.

2.1.5.8. Ability to speak distinctly.

2.1.5.9. Individuals who have had their spleen removed are not eligible for award or retention of suffix A or any dog
functions. (NOTE: This is a medical precaution related to a reduced ability to fight infection in case of a dog bite.)

2.1.5.10. Must be eligible for a secret security clearance IAW AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program
Management.

2.1.6. Training Sources/Resources. Completion of the SF Apprentice Course satisfies the knowledge and training
requirements specified in the specialty qualification section (above) for award of the 3-skill level. Completion of the
MWD Handler Apprentice Course satisfies the knowledge and training requirements specified in the specialty
qualification section for award of the 3-skill level A Shred. Completion of the Combat Arms Apprentice Course
satisfies the knowledge and training requirements specified in the specialty qualification section for award of the 3-
skill level B Shred. HQ USAF/A7SM approves prior service accessions, as well as MOS conversions, in
conjunction with applicable AF classification and management guidance, satisfying award of the 3-skill level without
attending the apprentice, MWD handler or combat arms courses. AF publications contain information on a specific
duty position, program or piece of equipment.

2.1.7. Implementation. Begin formal training upon initial Air Force accession or retraining into the SF career field.
Initiate qualification training to qualify an individual to perform their assigned duties upon arrival at their first duty
station. AFRC units will initiate qualification training upon graduation of a formal school.

2.2. Journeyman Level (5).

2.2.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: SF weaponry; laws, directives, programs, and policies; and
procedures governing security force activities, including installation security, weapon system and resource security,
antiterrorism, law enforcement and investigations, MWD function, ID, armament and equipment, training, pass and
registration and combat arms.

2.2.2. Training.

2.2.2.1. 3P051. Must complete the Security Forces Journeyman CDC, must complete a minimum of 12 months on-
the-job training (9 months for retrainees) and applicable 5-level core tasks for award of AFSC 3P051.

2.2.2.2. 3P051A. Must complete the Military Working Dog Journeyman CDC (3P051D), a minimum of 9 months
on-the-job training and applicable 5-level core tasks on the MWD STS for award of AFSC 3P051A.

2.2.2.3. 3P051B. Must complete the Combat Arms Journeyman CDC (3P051C), a minimum of 9 months on-the-job
training and applicable 5-level core tasks on the CA STS for award of AFSC 3P051B.

                                                            13
2.2.3. Experience.

2.2.3.1. 3P051. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3P031. Also, experience in SF weaponry controlling
entry into and providing internal control within installations and restricted areas, response force tactics, ID concepts
and procedures, terrorist threat response techniques, alarm monitor duties, control center duties, traffic control,
patrolling or accident investigation.

2.2.3.2. 3P051A. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3P031A (reflecting completion of the resident MWD
Handler Course). Also, experience in SF weaponry, maintaining dog handling equipment, caring for and training
military working dogs and reacting to dog alerts.

2.2.3.3. 3P051B. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3P03lB (reflecting completion of the resident Combat
Arms Apprentice Course). Also, experience in functions such as classroom instruction, marksmanship fundamentals
and techniques, weapons and range safety, sub-depot level firearm maintenance and repair, range operations and
safety criteria or controlling and storing weapons and ammunition.

2.2.4. Other. See para 2.1.5. above.

2.2.5. Training Sources/Resources. Completion of the SF Journeyman CDC satisfies the knowledge and training
requirements specified in the specialty qualification section (above) for award of the 5-skill level. Completion of the
Military Working Dog Journeyman CDC satisfies the knowledge and training requirements specified in the specialty
qualification section (above) for award of 5-skill level in Military Working Dog Handler. Completion of the Combat
Arms Journeyman CDC satisfies the knowledge and training requirements specified in the specialty qualification
section (above) for award of 5-skill level in Combat Arms. AF publications contain information on a specific duty
position, program, or piece of equipment.

2.2.6. Implementation. Upgrade training may be initiated upon completion of Phase I (Orientation) training. CDCs
may be ordered when a trainee arrives at their first duty station. Individuals remain in upgrade training at least 12
months, complete the required CDC and assume the grade of A1C before award of the journeyman (5-skill) level.
(NOTE: The minimum upgrade time for personnel retraining into AFSCs 3P0X1A/B is 9 months for completion of
5-level requirements.) Initiate Phase II (Qualification) training to qualify an individual to perform their assigned
duties immediately after they complete Phase I. Although Phase II training and the CDCs may be accomplished
simultaneously, we recommend the emphasis be put on completion of Phase II first. This will certify the individual
to perform their duties while they work toward completing their CDCs.

2.3. Craftsman Level (7).

2.3.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: SF weaponry; laws, directives, programs, and policies; and
procedures governing security force activities, including installation security, weapon system and resource security,
antiterrorism, law enforcement and investigations, MWD function, ID, armament and equipment, training, pass and
registration and combat arms.

2.3.2. Training. Completion of SF craftsman 7-skill level CDCs (must be done before attending the resident
course), completion of the resident craftsman course, minimum rank of SSgt, 12 months OJT (six months for
retrainees) and applicable 7-level core tasks (on the core STS) are mandatory for award of AFSC 3P071.

2.3.3. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3P051. Also, experience supervising or performing
functions such as weapon systems and resource security, ID, law enforcement, MWD functions or combat arms
functions. (NOTE: Personnel in AFSC 3P051A, who have been awarded a 7-skill level and have attained the rank
of TSgt, will be awarded the SEI 311 and their control AFSC will be 3P071. Personnel in AFSC 3P051B, who have
been awarded a 7-skill level and have attained the rank of TSgt, will be awarded the SEI 312 and their control AFSC
will be 3P071.)

2.3.4. Other. See para 2.1.5. above.

2.3.5. Training Sources/Resources. Completion of the 7-skill level CDC and 7-skill level resident course satisfies
the knowledge and training requirements specified in the specialty qualification section (above) for award of the 7-
                                                         14
skill level. AFHs contain information on a specific duty position, program or piece of equipment.

2.3.6. Initiate upgrade training for individuals selected for promotion to Staff Sergeant on the first day of the
promotion cycle. The craftsman skill level requires a minimum of 12 months in upgrade training (six months for
retrainees) and completion of the required courses (see Table 1). Initiate qualification training to qualify an
individual to perform their assigned duties.

2.4. Superintendent Level (9).

2.4.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: SF weaponry, laws, directives, programs and policies and
procedures governing security forces activities, including installation security, weapon system and resource security,
antiterrorism, force protection, law enforcement and investigations, MWD function, ID, armament and equipment,
training, pass and registration and combat arms.

2.4.2. Training. Complete duty position training, as needed.

2.4.3. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3P071. Also, experience in leading, managing, and
directing SF activities. Examples include: installation security, ID, antiterrorism techniques, weapon systems
security, military police and community policing, resources security, combat arms, MWD program or corrections
activities.

2.4.4. See para 2.1.5. above.

2.4.5. Training Sources/Resources. AF Publications provide information for job qualification. Continuation
(advanced) training courses satisfy specific training needs.

2.4.6. Implementation. Award the 9-skill level upon assuming the rank of SMSgt, for active duty, AFRC and ANG
personnel.

2.5. Training Requirements for Retrainees. The minimum upgrade times for retrainees will consist of: 9 months for
5-level and 6 months for 7-level UGT. Complete all other mandatory requirements (including grade requirements)
for the applicable skill level prior to award of the skill level.

SECTION D – RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS

The Apprentice Course is limited to 65 days because of manpower and Operations and Maintenance (O&M) funding
shortages. AETC estimates an 80-day course is required to meet all training requirements identified by the
functional community. Specific constraints are annotated on the Specialty Training Standard (STS) at Appendix A.

SECTION E – TRANSITION TRAINING GUIDE

There are currently no transition training requirements. This area is reserved.




                                                          15
PART II

SECTION A - SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD (STS)

1. Implementation. These STSs will be used for technical training provided by AETC.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, the STS at appendices A (Core STS), B
(MWD STS) and C (Combat Arms):

2.1. Lists the most common tasks, knowledge and technical references (TR) necessary for Airmen to perform duties
in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level in column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference).

2.2. Specialty-wide Core and Wartime Tasks. The tasks identified in column 2 indicate core tasks by skill level, for
the specialty. As a minimum, trainees must complete applicable core tasks for skill level upgrade as indicated by the
skill level annotated in column 2. If units encounter situations where training constraints exist (for example, lack of
equipment, training areas, etc.), specific waiver action must be submitted through their MAJCOM functional
manager, to the AFCFM (AF/A7SM) and if approved, documented in unit and individual training records.
MAJCOMs determine the method to record training constraint waivers for their subordinate units. For ANG/AFRC
components, waiver authority is HQ Air National Guard and HQ Air Force Reserve SFMs. Wartime tasks are those
tasks that must be taught when courses are accelerated in a wartime environment and are identified in the column on
the far left of the STS by an asterisk (*). In response to a wartime environment, only tasks identified with an asterisk
in this column will be taught in the SF Apprentice Course.

2.3. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and knowledge training
requirements. Task certification must show a completed date.

2.4. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the proficiency to be
demonstrated by the graduate upon completion of the resident and correspondence courses.

2.5. Qualitative requirements. A proficiency code key is used in each STS to indicate the level of training and
knowledge provided by resident training and career development courses.

2.6. Becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job training when placed in AF Form 623, Individual
Training Record, and used according to AFI 36-2201. Use the core STS (Appendix A) for all SF personnel. In
addition, use the Military Working Dog Handler and Combat Arms STS (Appendices B and C respectively) for
personnel awarded the appropriate shred or other SF personnel who are performing duties (in a limited capacity) in
those areas. When used as a JQS, the following requirements apply:

3. Documentation. Document and certify completion of training using the electronic Air Force Training Record
(AFTR). Identify duty position requirements for every duty position within a unit or organization. As a minimum,
complete the following areas of the JQS: Training Start, Training Complete, Trainee Initials, and Trainer Initials.

3.1. Transcribing from old CFETP. Use only the STS from the new CFETP to identify and certify all past and
current qualifications. For those tasks previously certified and required in the current duty position, evaluate current
qualifications and when verified, recertify using the current date as the completion date and enter trainee’s and
supervisor’s initials (no training is taking place). When transcribing previous certification for tasks not required in
the current duty position, carry forward only the previous completion dates of certification. If and when transcribed
tasks become duty position requirements, recertify using standard certification procedures. The person whose initials
appear in the trainer block during the transcription process must meet the requirements of their role.

3.2. Decertification and Recertification. When an Airman is found to be unqualified on a previously certified duty
position task, the supervisor deletes the previous certification. Appropriate remarks are entered on the AF Form
623A, On-The-Job Training Record Continuation Sheet, as to the reason for decertification. The supervisor will
initiate retraining on this task by entering a new training start date. Once the retraining is complete, enter a new
training complete date and both the trainer and trainee must enter their initials.

4. Training Standard. Tasks are trained to the “go/no go” level. “Go” means the individual can perform the task
                                                        16
without assistance and meet local demands for accuracy, timeliness and correct use of procedures.

5. Promotion Testing. The core STS is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman
Promotion System (WAPS). Do not use the Military Working Dog Handler or Combat Arms STS. Specialty
Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the USAF Occupational Measurement Squadron by senior NCOs with
extensive practical experience in their career fields. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged
by test development team members as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. All SF personnel will be
tested on core SF skills only, regardless of duty position. Core SF personnel who retrain into one of the shreds ARE
NOT exempt from taking the SKT. Develop only one test for each grade. Questions are based upon study
references listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are in AFI 36-2606, Reenlistment in the United
States Air Force. WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve.

6. Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates to 37 TRG/DOS, Lackland AFB, TX, using AF
Form 1284, Training Quality Report (TQR). Please reference specific STS paragraphs. Additionally, a customer
service information line has been installed for the supervisors’ convenience. For a quick response to problems, call
the Customer Service Information Line, DSN 473-2917, anytime day or night.

Section B – Course Objective List.

Section B, not used. This area is reserved.

Section C – Support Material.

OJT Support materials consist of Air Force publications (AFI, AFMANs, AFHs), Army Field Manuals, Technical
Orders (T.O.) and TTP Guides. These documents contain comprehensive information on SF subjects, procedures or
equipment. Use these publications for qualification or sustainment training, or skills/knowledge enhancement.

Section D - Training Course Index.

1. Mandatory Courses for 3P0X1/X1A/X1B:

L3ABR3P031-0S1B                     SF Apprentice Course
L8ALR3P031A0H1A                     Military Working Dog Handler Course
L3ALR3P031B0B0B                     Combat Arms Apprentice Course
L3ACR3P071-0C0A                     SF Craftsman Course
5-Level CDC                         Career Development Course
MWD CDC                             Career Development Course
Combat Arms CDC                     Career Development Course
7-Level CDC                         Craftsman Career Development Course

2. Other courses available for 3P0X1/X1A/X1B:

L3AZR3P051 0W1A                     .50 caliber Machine Gun Course
L3AZR3P051 0W2A                     MK 19 Mod 3 40mm Machinegun Qualification Course
L3AZR3P071 0B0A                     Combat Arms Supervisor
L3AZR3P071 0E0A                     Security Forces Electronic Security Systems Operator
L3AZR3P071 0S0A                     Security Forces Combat Leaders Course
L3OZR31P4 0S0A                      Integrated Defense Command and Control Course
L5AZA3P071 0A1A                     Antiterrorism Evasive Driving-Staff Driver
L5AZA3P071 0F0B                     Non-Lethal Individual Weapon Instructor Course (7H-F61)
L5AZA3P071 0S0A                     Protective Services Training (7H-F18/830-F13)
L5AZA3P071 0S2A                     Special Reaction Team (7H-F17/830-F12)(PH1)
L5AZA3P071 0S4A                     Special Reaction Team Marksman/Observer (PH2)(7H-F17/830-F12)
L5AZA3P071 0S5A                     Military Police Investigation (830-ASIV5)
L5AZA3P071 0S7A                     Anti-Terrorism Instructor Qualification Course (5K-F5/012-F30)
L5AZA3P071 0S8A                     Intelligence in Combating Terrorism (3C-F14/244-F8)
L5AZN3P051 0S0A                     Basic Corrections (Navy) (CIN: A-831-001/CDP: 562B/UIC: 35419)
                                                         17
L8AZR3P071 0K1A                    Military Working Dog Trainer/Kennelmaster Course
L8AZR3P071 0T0A                    Traffic Management and Collision Investigation
LAASR3P0X1A0D2A                    Specialized Search Dog
E6AILTXXXX 0I1A                    Principles of Instructional System Development
J3AZRTXXXX 0P1A                    Principles of Instruction
WCIP07A                            Resource Protection/Crime Prevention Theory, Practice and Management
SF8124                             FBI National Academy
DTRA                               DoD Nuclear Security Management Course
DTRA                               Nuclear Surety Inspections Course
DTRA                               Joint DoD-DOE Nuclear Surety Executive Course

This list is not all inclusive; please refer to the Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA) for
additional courses and course descriptions, https://etca.randolph.af.mil/.

Section E – MAJCOM Unique Requirements.

There are currently no MAJCOM unique requirements. This area is reserved.

BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL                                                PATRICIA M. YOUNG, P.E.
                                                        Asst DCS/Logistics, Installations &
                                                        Mission Support

Attachments (3)
1. STS: Security Forces Specialty (3P0X1)
2. STS: Military Working Dog Handler Specialty (3P0X1A)
3. STS: Combat Arms Specialty (3P0X1B)




                                                        18
   Specialty Training Standard



3P0X1, SECURITY
    FORCES




               A-1
This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                       Initials (Written)              SSAN




                                             Printed Name Of Trainer And Written Initials
N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I




                                              QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                              Proficiency Code Key
                                     Scale     Definition: The individual
                                     Value
                                       1       Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (Extremely
                                               Limited)
          Task                         2       Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
      Performance                      3       Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
         Levels                        4       Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task.
                                               (Highly Proficient)
                                       a       Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)
         *Task                         b       Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)
       Knowledge                       c       Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                                               (Operating Principles)
          Levels                       d       Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
                                       A       Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
       **Subject                       B       Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (Principles)
       Knowledge                       C       Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
        Levels                         D       Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)


Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

X This mark is used to indicate core tasks

 NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with an asterisk in the column on the far left of the STS are trained during war time.




                                                                         A-2
Note 1: All personnel must practice weapon safety as outlined in AFI 31-207 and AFMAN 31-229.

Note 2: Line items 42.5.2.2.7. and 42.5.2.3.8. identified with PCK 3b in column 4A(1) have training standards and
qualifications requirements prescribed in AFMAN 36-2227, Volume 1 and stated T.O.’s.

Note 3: Units will use the M16 series weapon they have in inventory to meet core task training requirements and
properly document the training on an AF Form 797. Once a unit receives all of their M4s they will have until the
end of the current firing cycle or 90 days (whichever is longer) to train their personnel on the new weapon.

Note 4: Line items 42.5.2.4.8., 42.5.2.5.8., and 42.5.2.6.7. identified with the PCK 3b in column 4(A)(1) have
training standards and qualification requirements prescribed in AFMAN 36-2227, Volumes 1 and 2 and stated
T.O.’s. However, students will not “wash-out” if they fail to qualify on those weapons qualification courses.
Students’ weapons training documents will reflect “UQ” and the reason for not qualifying, with the information
provided to their gaining unit for additional training if necessary.

Note 5: The ammunition for the M240B is the same as for the M60. Personnel can be certified on task 5.3.2.4.1 by
learning the ammunition types and uses for the M60.

Note 6: The ranges for the M240B and M60 Machine Guns are the same. The range card can be trained without
having an M240B and if a weapon is used, an M60 may be substituted.

Note 7: Approved weapons accessories are identified on the Approved Standardized SF Equipment List, located on
the AFSFC Web Page. The corresponding technical orders are located on the SF-CTE Web Page.




                                                        A-3
                                                               2. Core Tasks          3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                                 Note)


Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A           B          A        B          C          D            A         B              C
                                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill     7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                                   Level     Level
                                                                5 Level     7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer      (1)        (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                                        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC

       1. General career field knowledge                                                                                             -         -          -         -
       1.1. Career field history
     *                                                                                                                              A          B          -         -
       TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 1
       1.2. SF career path
       TR: CFETP 3P0X1/X1A/X1B; AFMAN                                                                                                -        A           -        B
       31-201, Vol. 1
       1.3. Security Forces culture
     *                                                                                                                              A          B          -         -
       TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 1
       1.4. Security Forces ethics
     *                                                            X                                                                 A          B          -         -
       TR: Core Values; AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 1
       2. SF Operations Planning                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
       2.1. Utilize post priority charts
                                                                             X                                                       -         -          -        b
       TR: AFI 31-101
       2.2. Assemble Integrated Defense Plan
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -        b
       TR: AFI 31-101
       2.3. Integrated Defense Risk Management
       Process (IDRMP)                                                                                                               -         -          -         -
       TR: AFI 31-101
       3. SF Deployment Planning                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
       3.1. Air and Space Expeditionary Force
       (AEF) concepts                                                                                                                -         -          -        B
       TR: AFI 10-401; AFPD 10-4
       3.2. AEF alignment
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -        B
       TR: AFI 10-401; AEF Center Fact Sheet
       3.3. AEF UTC tasking process
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -        B
       TR: AFI 10-401; AFH 31-305
       3.4. AEF UTC coding
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -        B
       TR: AFI 10-401; AFH 31-305
       3.5. Security Forces Unit Type Codes
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
       (UTCs)
       3.5.1. War planning background
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -        A
       TR: AFH 31-305; AFI 10-401
       3.5.2. Components
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -        A
       TR: AFH 31-305
       3.5.3. Capabilities
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -        A
       TR: AFH 31-305
       3.5.4. Applications
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -        A
       TR: AFH 31-305
       3.5.5. Predeployment
                                                                                                                                     -        A           -        B
       TR: AFH 31-305; AFI 10-401
       3.5.6. Deployment
       TR: AFH 31-305; AFI 10-401; AFI 10-                                                                                           -        A           -        B
       403
       3.5.7. Employment
       TR: AFH 31-305; AFI 10-401; AFI 10-                                                                                           -        A           -        B
       403
       3.5.8. Redeployment
       TR: AFH 31-305; AFI 10-401; AFI 10-                                                                                           -        A           -        B
       403




                                                                      A-4
                                                               2. Core Tasks          3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                                 Note)


Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A           B          A        B          C          D            A         B              C
                                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill     7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                                   Level     Level
                                                                5 Level     7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer      (1)        (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                                        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC

       4. Area of responsibility (AOR), historical
       perspective                                                                                                                   -         -          -        A
       TR: JP 3-10; JP 3-10.1
       5. Command and Staff, historical
       perspective                                                                                                                   -         -          -        A
       TR: AFI 31-301; JP 3-10.1; AFH 31-302
       6. Joint/combined operations
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -        A
       TR: AFI 31-301; JP 3-10.1
       7. SF Organizational and functional
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
       responsibilities
       7.1. Structure
     * TR: AFI 10-201; AFI 10-403; AFI 31-                                                                                          A          B          -        B
       101; AFI 31-201; AFI 31-301
       7.2. S-1 thru S-5 home station/deployed
       duties
     *                                                            X                                                                 A         A           -        B
       TR: AFH 31-302; AFH 31-305; AFI38-
       101
       7.3. SF applications of military working
       dogs (MWD)
                                                                                                                                     -         B          -        B
       TR: AFI 31-202; AFMAN 31-219; AFI 31-
       101
       7.4. MWD legal considerations
                                                                                                                                     -         B          -         -
       TR: AFMAN 31-219
       7.5. Combat Arms                                                                                                              -         -          -         -
       7.5.1. Combat Arms responsibilities
                                                                                                                                     -         B          -         -
       TR: AFI 36-2226
       7.5.2. Armory duties
       TR: AFI 31-101; AFMAN 31-229; AFMAN                                                                                           -        A           -        B
       91-201
       7.6. SF resources (Budget, Supplies,
       Manpower)
       TR: AFI 31-201; Capability-based                                                                                              -        A           -         -
       Manpower Study 43SXXX; AFI 65-601,
       Vol. 1; AFMAN 23-110
       7.7. Identify financial plans and
       requirements
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -        B
       TR: AFI 65-601, Vol 1 & 2; AFI 65-601,
       Vol 1
       7.8. Determine SF resources required to
       accomplish the mission                                                                                                        -         -          -        B
       TR: AFI 31-201
       7.9. Security Forces Training and
       Standardization and Evaluation Programs                                                                                       -        A           -        B
       TR: AFI 36-2225
       7.10. Base Defense Operations Center
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
       (BDOC)
       7.10.1. BDOC duties
                                                                                                                                     -         B          -         -
       TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 3; AFI 31-101
       7.10.2. National Law Enforcement
       Terminal System (NLETS)                                                                                                       -        A           -         -
       TR: AFI 31-201


                                                                      A-5
                                                               2. Core Tasks          3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                                 Note)


Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A           B          A        B          C          D            A         B              C
                                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill     7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                                   Level     Level
                                                                5 Level     7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer      (1)        (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                                        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC

                7.10.3. Alarm monitor
                                                                                                                                     -        A           -         -
                TR: AFI 31-101
                7.10.4. Dispatch law enforcement
                patrols                                                                                                              -         -          -        B
                TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol 3
                7.10.5. Dispatch security response force
                elements                                                                                                             -         -          -        B
                TR: AFI 31-101; AFMAN 31-201, Vol 3
                7.11. Intelligence Infusion Cell
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
                TR: AFI 31-101
                8. Command/Control/Communications
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
                and Intelligence (C3I)
                8.1. Communications structure
                TR: AFH 31-302; AFH 31-305; JP 3-10; JP
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -        B
                3-10.1; FM 3-21.8; FM 7-10;
                AFTTP 3-10.2
                8.2. Combat Information Section
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -        A
                TR: AFH 31-302; JP 3-10, JP 3-10.1
                8.3. Vulnerabilities/criticality
                (CARVER matrix)                                                                                                      -         -          -        B
                TR: AFH 31-302
                8.4. Communications                                                                                                  -         -          -         -
                8.4.1. Net communication protocol
     *                                                                                                                              B          B          -         -
                TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 3
                8.4.2. Use phonetic alphabet
     *                                                            X                                                                 3c         -          -         -
                TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol 3
                8.4.3. Install and recover communication
                systems
                                                                                                                                     -         b          -        b
                TR: T.O. 31W1-2PT-421; T.O. 31W1-2PT
                291; FM 24-12; AFH 31-302; FM 32-75
                8.4.4. Inspect and correct communication
                systems                                                                                                              -         b          -        b
                TR: AFH 31-302; FM 21-75; FM 24-12
                8.4.5. Operate communication systems
                TR: TM 11-5805-262-12; T.O. 31W1-2PT                                                                                 -         -          -        b
                361; FM 24-12; 37 Series
                8.4.6. Use and react to visual signaling
                techniques
     *                                                            X                                                                 2b         c          -         -
                TR: AFMAN 10-100; FM 21-60; CALL
                04-27, Vol II
                8.4.7. Use sign/countersign in restricted
     *          areas                                             X                                                                 2b         c          -         -
                TR: AFI 31-101
                8.4.8. Use sign/countersign in integrated
     *          defense                                           X                                                                 2b         c          -         -
                TR: AFH 31-302; AFMAN 10-100
                9. Joint operations                                                                                                  -         -          -         -
                9.1. Joint operations, organization and
                integration
     *                                                                                                                              A          -          -         -
                TR: FM 3-0; DA PAM 10-1; JP 1; AFI 31-
                301; JP 3-0


                                                                      A-6
                                                               2. Core Tasks          3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                                 Note)


Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A           B          A        B          C          D            A         B              C
                                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill     7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                                   Level     Level
                                                                5 Level     7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer      (1)        (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                                        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC

       9.2. TACON, OPCON and ADCON
     *                                                                                                                              B          -          -         -
       TR: JP 3-0; JP 1; FM 3; AFI 31-101
       10. Threat weapons types and capabilities
     * TR: U.S. Army Handbook No. 1, U.S.                                                                                           A          -          -         -
       Army Training and Doctrine Command
       11. Terrorism and anti-terrorism
                                                                                                                                     -        A           -        B
       TR: JP 3-07.2; AFI 10-245; AFDD 2-4.1
       12. Integrated defense                                                                                                        -         -          -         -
       12.1. Integrated defense concepts
       TR: AFTTP 3-10.1; (CONOPS 20/20,
     *                                                            X                                                                 A          B          -        C
       Bomb Mitigation Guide); AFPD 31-1; AFI
       31-101
       12.2. Threat spectrum
     * TR: AFI 10-245; AFH 31-302; AFI 31-                                                                                          A          -          -        C
       301; AFDD 2-4.1l AFI 31-101
       12.3. Counter threats to USAF installations
       and resources                                                                                                                 -         -          -        B
       TR: AFDD 2-4.1; AFPD 31-1; AFI 31-101
       12.4. Principles of war
                                                                                                                                     -        A           -        B
       TR: JP 1; AFDD 1
       13. Crisis response and limited contingency
       operations                                                                                                                    -        A           -        B
       TR: JP 3-0, Change 1
       14. Counterinsurgency                                                                                                         -         -          -         -
       14.1. Insurgency and counterinsurgency
                                                                                                                                     -         -         A          -
       TR: FM 3-24
       14.2. Leadership for counterinsurgency
                                                                                                                                     -         -         A          -
       TR: FM 3-24
       14.3. Host-nation security forces
       development                                                                                                                   -         -         A          -
       TR: FM 3-24
       14.4. Organizational or key groups in the
       society                                                                                                                       -         -         A          -
       TR: FM 3-24
       14.5. Relationships and tensions among
       groups                                                                                                                        -         -         A          -
       TR: FM 3-24
       14.6. Values held by groups (including
       tribes and their interests and motivations)                                                                                   -         -         A          -
       TR: FM 3-24
       14.7. Means of group (including tribes)
       communication                                                                                                                 -         -         A          -
       TR: FM 3-24
       14.8. Society's leadership system
                                                                                                                                     -         -         A          -
       TR: FM 3-24
       14.9. Essential nature of conflict in
       counterinsurgency                                                                                                             -         -         A          -
       TR: FM 3-24
       14.10. Insurgent’s strengths and weaknesses
                                                                                                                                     -         -         A          -
       TR: FM 3-24



                                                                      A-7
                                                               2. Core Tasks          3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                                 Note)


Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A           B          A        B          C          D            A         B              C
                                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill     7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                                   Level     Level
                                                                5 Level     7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer      (1)        (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                                        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC

       14.11. Roles of other actors or agencies in
       area of operations                                                                                                            -         -         A          -
       TR: FM 3-24
       15. Nuclear/Non-nuclear Weapons Systems
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
       and Resources Security
       15.1. Concepts and principles
     * TR: AFI 31-101; DoD S-5210.41M;                                                                                              B          B          -         -
       (S)AFMAN 31-108; AFI 31-207
       15.2. Physical security safeguards
       TR: AFI 31-101; DoD S-5210.41M;                                                                                               -         B          -         -
       (S)AFMAN 31-108; AFI 31-207
       15.3. Response forces
     * TR: DoD S-5210.41M; (S)AFMAN 31-108;                                                                                         B          B          -         -
       AFI 31-101; AFI 31-207
       15.4. Nuclear security procedures                                                                                             -         -          -         -
        15.4.1. Nuclear area posting
                                                                                                                                     -         -         B          -
       TR: DoD S-5210.41M; (S) AFMAN 31-108
       15.4.2. Post change-over procedures
       TR: DoD S-5210.4-M, (S)AFMAN 31-108,                                                                                          -         -         B          -
       AFMAN 31-201 Vol. 3
       15.4.3. Post checks
     * TR: DoD S-5210.41M; (S)AFMAN 31-108,                                                                                         A          -         B          -
       AFMAN 31-201 Vol. 3
       15.4.4. Flight-level exercises
                                                                                                                                     -         -         B          -
       TR: DoD S-5210.41M; (S) AFMAN 31-108
       15.4.5. Documentation of compensatory
       measures to correct area deficiencies TR:                                                                                     -         -         B          -
       DoD S-5210.41M; (S) AFMAN 31-108
       15.4.6. Entry/circulation control
                                                                                                                                     -         -         B          -
       TR: DoD S-5210.41M; (S) AFMAN 31-108
       15.4.7. Searching
                                                                                                                                     -         -         B          -
       TR: DoD S-5210.41M; (S) AFMAN 31-108
       15.4.8. Escorted entry procedures
                                                                                                                                     -         -         B          -
       TR: DoD S-5210.4-M, (S) AFMAN 31-108
       15.4.9. Sole-vouching authority (SVA)
                                                                                                                                     -         -         B          -
       TR: DoD S-5210.41M; (S) AFMAN 31-108
       15.5. Associated Nuclear Standards,
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
       Concepts and Principles
       15.5.1. Nuclear Security Threat Capabilities
       Assessment (NSTCA)                                                                                                            -         -         B          -
       TR: DoD S-5210.41M; (S) AFMAN 31-108
       15.5.2. Concepts of nuclear incidents
                                                                                                                                     -         -         B          -
       TR: DoD S-5210.41M; (S) AFMAN 31-108
       15.5.3 Nuclear standards
                                                                                                                                     -         -         B          -
       TR: DoD S-5210.41M; (S) AFMAN 31-108
       15.5.4. Nuclear missions (missiles, bomber
       generation, MUNSS)                                                                                                            -         -         B          -
       TR: DoD S-5210.41M; (S) AFMAN 31-108
       15.5.5. DoD nuclear surety terms
                                                                                                                                     -         -         B          -
       TR: DoD S-5210.41M; (S) AFMAN 31-108



                                                                      A-8
                                                               2. Core Tasks          3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                                 Note)


Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A           B          A        B          C          D            A         B              C
                                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill     7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                                   Level     Level
                                                                5 Level     7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer      (1)        (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                                        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC

                15.5.6. Personnel Reliability Program (PRP)
                requirements
                                                                                                                                     -         -         B          -
                TR: DoD S-5210.41M; (S) AFMAN 31-108,
                DoD S 5210.42R, AFMAN 10-3902
                15.5.7. Nuclear detection and assessment
                systems                                                                                                              -         -         A          -
                TR: DoD S-5210.41M; (S) AFMAN 31-108
                15.5.8. Nuclear delay and denial systems
                                                                                                                                     -         -         B          -
                TR: DoD S-5210.41M; (S) AFMAN 31-108
                15.5.9. Recapture/recovery of nuclear
                weapons systems                                                                                                      -         -         B          -
                TR: DoD S-5210.41M; (S) AFMAN 31-108
                15.5.10. Convoy Operations (on/off base)
                TR: AFI 31-207; DoD S-5210.41M;                                                                                      -         -         B          -
                (S)AFMAN 31-108
                15.5.11. Nuclear inspections,
                TR: DoD S-5210.41M; (S)AFMAN 31-108,
                                                                                                                                     -         -         A          -
                AFI 90-201, T.O. 11N-25-1 (will become
                CJCSI 3263.05)
                15.5.12. Maintenance support to nuclear
                security operations                                                                                                  -         -         A          -
                TR: DoD S-5210.41M; (S)AFMAN 31-108
                15.5.13. A and B split knowledge concept
                TR: DoD S-5210.41M; (S)AFMAN 31-108,                                                                                 -         -         A          -
                AFSPCI 31-1101
                15.5.14. Nuclear roadmap
                TR: DoD S-5210.41M; (S)AFMAN 31-108;                                                                                 -         -         A          -
                Air Force Nuclear Roadmap
                15.6. Missile field structure
                TR: DoD S-5210.4-M; (S) AFMAN 31-108;
     *                                                                                                                              A          B          -         -
                ICBM System Security Standard;
                AFSPCMAN 31-108
                16. Guardmount                                                                                                       -         -          -         -
                16.1. Conduct guardmount
                                                                             X                                                       -         -          -        b
                TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol 3
                16.2. Personnel and equipment inspection
                                                                             X                                                       -         -          -        B
                TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 3
                16.3. Stand guardmount
     *                                                            X                                                                 2b         -          -         -
                TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 3
                17. Posting                                                                                                          -         -          -         -
                17.1. Assume post procedures
     *                                                            X                                                                 A          -          -         -
                TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol 3
                17.2. Post checks
     *                                                                       X                                                      A          -          -        B
                TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol 3
                18. Personal hygiene
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
                TR: FM21-10; FM21-75
                19. Use preventive medicines
                TR: AFMAN 10-100; FM 21-10;                                                                                          -         -          -         -
                FM 21-11
                20. Field sanitation
     *                                                                                                                              B          B          -         -
                TR: FM 21-10; AFMAN 10-100


                                                                      A-9
                                                               2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                               Note)


Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A         B          A        B          C          D            A         B              C
                                                                                                                                 3 Skill   5 Skill     7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level
                                                                5 Level   7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer      (1)        (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                                      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC

                21. Career field hazards                                                                                           -         -          -         -
                21.1. AFSC 3P0X1
                TR: AFMAN 91-201; AFI 91-207; AFI 91-
     *                                                                                                                            B          B          -         -
                301; AFI 31-201; AFOSHSTD 91-501;
                FM 21-10
                21.2. AFSC 3P0X1A
                TR: AFMAN 91-201; AFI 91-207; AFI 91-                                                                              -        A           -         -
                301; AFI 31-201; AFOSHSTD 91-501
                21.3. AFSC 3P0X1B
                TR: AFMAN 91-201; AFI 91-207; AFI 91-                                                                              -        A           -         -
                301; AFI 31-201; AFOSHSTD 91-501
                22. Blood borne pathogens/Counter
     *          blood borne pathogens                             X                                                               B          B          -         -
                TR: Public Law 29CFR; AFI 31-201
                23. Camouflage self/individual/team
                equipment
     *                                                                                                                            A          B          -         -
                TR: FM 3-21.75; STP 21-1-SMCT;
                FM 20-3; FM 55-30; AFJMAN 24-306
                24. Fight from defensive fighting
     *          positions                                         X                                                               1a         b          -         -
                TR: FM 3-21.8; FM 21-75
                25. Defensive fighting position
     *          considerations                                                                                                    B          -          -         -
                TR: FM 3-21.8; FM 21-75; SH 21-76
                26. Early warning devices                                                                                          -         -          -         -
                26.1. Types of early warning devices
                                                                                                                                   -         -          -        B
                TR: FM 3-23.30; TM 9-1370-208-10
                26.2. Employ early warning devices
                                                                                                                                   -         b          -         -
                TR: FM 3-23.30; TM 9-1370-208-10
                26.3. Obstacle employment
                                                                                                                                   -         -         B          -
                TR: AFH 31-302; FM 3-21.8
                27. Practice noise, light, and litter
     *          discipline                                        X                                                               2b         -          -         -
                TR: FM 21-75; STP 21-1-SMCT
                28. Set up shelter
                TR: FM 90-5; AFMAN 10-100; AFPAM                                                                                   -         -          -         -
                10-219
                29. Map utilization                                                                                                -         -          -         -
                29.1. Perform land navigation
                                                                                                                                   -         -          -        b
                TR: FM 3-25.26; FM 21-26
                29.2. Use installation grid maps
     *                                                            X                                                               1a         b          -         -
                TR: AFJMAN 24-306; FM 21-305
                30. Topographical maps                                                                                             -         -          -         -
                30.1. Use topographical maps
     *                                                            X                                                               1a         b          -         -
                TR: FM 3-25.26
                30.2. Determine grid coordinates of a
                point using the Military Grid Reference
     *                                                            X                                                               1a         b          -         -
                System
                TR: FM 3-25.26




                                                                   A-10
                                                               2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                               Note)


Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A         B          A        B          C          D            A         B              C
                                                                                                                                 3 Skill   5 Skill     7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level
                                                                5 Level   7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer      (1)        (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                                      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC

       30.3. Determine the magnetic azimuth
     * using a Lensatic Compass                                   X                                                               1a         b          -         -
       TR: FM 3-25.26
       30.4. Determine elevation of a point
     * using a map                                                X                                                               1a         b          -         -
       TR: FM 3-25.26
       30.5. Measure distance on a map
     *                                                            X                                                               1a         b          -         -
       TR: FM 3-25.26
       30.6. Convert azimuths (magnetic/grid)
     *                                                            X                                                               1a         b          -         -
       TR: FM 3-25.26
       30.7. Determine azimuths using a
     * protractor                                                 X                                                               1a         b          -         -
       TR: FM 3-25.26
       30.8. Compute back azimuths
     *                                                            X                                                               1a         b          -         -
       TR: FM 3-25.26
       30.9. Determine the distance while
     * moving between two points                                  X                                                               1a         b          -         -
       TR: FM 3-25.26
       30.10. Determine location by terrain
     * association                                                X                                                               1a         b          -         -
       TR: FM 3-25.26
       30.11. Orient a map to the ground by
     * map/terrain association                                    X                                                               1a         b          -         -
       TR: FM 3-25.26
       30.12. Locate an unknown point on a map
     * by intersection                                            X                                                               1a         b          -         -
       TR: FM 3-25.26
       30.13. Locate an unknown point on a map
     * by resection                                               X                                                               1a         b          -         -
       TR: FM 3-25.26
       30.14. Orient a map using a lensatic
     * compass                                                    X                                                               1a         b          -         -
       TR: FM 23-25.26
       30.15. Navigate from one point to another
       point, dismounted                                          X                                                                -         b          -         -
       TR: FM23-25.26
       31. Use navigational equipment
       TR: Defense Advanced GPS Receiver
       (DAGR) Owners Manual; Blue Force
     *                                                                                                                            1a         b
       Tracker (FBCB2) Owners Manual; FM 3-
       25.26 Appendix J; AN/PSN-11 (PLGR)
       Owners Manual
       32. Convoys                                                                                                                 -         -          -         -
       32.1. React to non-nuclear convoy attacks
       TR: FM 55-30; AFI 31-207; FM 3-19.4;
     *                                                                                                                            2b         -          -        b
       CALL HDBK 04-27 AND 04-24; AFTTP (I)
       3-2.58
       32.2. Perform tactical convoy roles
     * TR: FM 55-30; CALL HDBK 04-24;                                                                                             2b         -          -        b
       CALL HDBK 04-27; AFTTP (I) 3-2.58
       33. Prepare SF documents                                                                                                    -         -          -         -


                                                                   A-11
                                                               2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                               Note)


Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A         B          A        B          C          D            A         B              C
                                                                                                                                 3 Skill   5 Skill     7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level
                                                                5 Level   7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer      (1)        (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                                      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC

                33.1. AF Form 52
                                                                  X                                                                -         b          -         -
                TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 7
                33.2. AF Form 75
                                                                  X                                                                -         b          -         -
                TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 7
                33.3. AF Form 1109
                TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 7, AFI 31-101              X                                                                -         b          -         -
                and AFMAN 31-108
                33.4. AF Form 1168
     *                                                            X                                                               2b         b          -         -
                TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 7
                33.5. DD Form 1408
                                                                  X                                                                -         b          -         -
                TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 7
                33.6. DD Form 1805
                                                                                                                                   -         b          -         -
                TR: FM 19-25
                33.7. AF Form 1176
                TR: AFI 31-201 and AFMAN 31-201,                  X                                                                -         b          -         -
                Vol 7
                33.8. AF Form 1364
                TR: AFI 31-201, and AFMAN 31-201,                 X                                                                -         b          -         -
                Vol 7
                33.9 AF Form 3545
                TR: AFI 31-201, and AFMAN 31-201,                 X                                                                -         b          -         -
                Vol 7
                33.10. DD Form 2708
                                                                  X                                                                -         b          -         -
                TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 7
                33.11. DD Form 1920
                                                                  X                                                                -         b          -         -
                TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 7
                33.12. Write and review correspondence/
                reports
                                                                  X                                                                -         a          -        b
                TR: AFH 33-337; AFMAN 31-201, Vol 2
                and Vol 7
                33.13. Use tactical reporting formats
     *          (LACE, SITREP, SPOT,SALUTE, etc                   X                                                               2b         -          -         -
                TR: FM 3-21.8; AFH 31-302
                33.14. Security Reporting/Alerting System
     *          TR: AFI 31-101; DoD S-5210.41M;                   X                                                               B          B
                AFMAN 31-108
                33.15. Joint Reporting Systems [9 line
                MEDEVAC, 9 line IED, Casualty Evacuation
     *                                                            X                                                               A          B          -         -
                (CASEVAC), Troops In Contact (TIC)]
                TR: FM 3-21.8
                34. Security Forces Management
     *          Information System (SFMIS)                                                                                        A          B
                TR: AFI 31-203; AFMAN 31-201, Vol 7
                35. Training and supervision                                                                                       -         -          -         -
                35.1. Assigning personnel duty positions
                TR: AFMAN 36-2101; AFI 38-201; AFI                         X                                                       -         -          -        b
                31-201; AFI 31-207; AFH 31-302
                35.2. Manage assigned personnel
                TR: AFMAN 36-2101; AFI 38-201; AFI                         X                                                       -         -          -        b
                31-201; AFI 31-207; AFH 31-302



                                                                   A-12
                                                               2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                               Note)


Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A         B          A        B          C          D            A         B              C
                                                                                                                                 3 Skill   5 Skill     7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level
                                                                5 Level   7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer      (1)        (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                                      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC

                35.3. Performance standards
                                                                                                                                   -        A           -         -
                TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 3
                35.4. Establish and enforce priorities of
     *          work                                                       X                                                       a         -         b         b
                TR: AFH 31-302; FM 3-21.8; FM 7-10
                35.5. Security Forces training programs
                                                                                                                                   -        A           -        B
                TR: AFI 36-2225
                36. Legal considerations                                                                                           -         -          -         -
                36.1. Military authority and jurisdiction
                TR: AFI 31-101; AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 2
     *                                                            X                                                               B          B          -         -
                and 3; Manual for Courts Martial; U.S.
                Codes; U.S. Constitution
                36.2. Military law
                TR: AFI 31-101; AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 2
     *                                                                                                                            A          B          -         -
                and 3; Manual for Courts Martial; U.S.
                Codes; U.S. Constitution
                36.3. Advisement of rights                                                                                         -         -          -         -
                36.3.1. When to advise
                TR: AFI 31-101; AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 2
     *                                                            X                                                               B          -          -         -
                and 3; Manual for Courts Martial; U.S.
                Codes; U.S. Constitution
                36.3.2. Advisement provisions for active
                duty, civilian, Air National Guard and
                USAF Reservists
     *                                                                                                                            A          -          -         -
                TR: AFI 31-101; AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 2
                and 3; Manual for Courts Martial; U.S.
                Codes; U.S. Constitution
                36.3.3. Advise persons of their rights via
                AF Fm 1168
     *          TR: AFI 31-101; AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 2              X                                                               2b         -          -         -
                and 3; Manual for Courts Martial; U.S.
                Codes; U.S. Constitution
                36.4. Authority to search
                TR: AFI 31-101; AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 2
     *                                                                                                                            A          B          -         -
                and 3; Manual for Courts Martial; U.S.
                Codes; U.S. Constitution
                36.5. Testify in court
                                                                                                                                   -         a          -        b
                TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol 2
                37. Confinement Program                                                                                            -         -          -         -
                37.1. Humane treatment and incarceration
     *          procedures                                                                                                        A          B          -         -
                TR: AFI 31-205
                37.2. Inmate searches
     *                                                                                                                            A          B          -         -
                TR: AFI 31-205
                37.3. Confinement guard/escort prerequisites
     *                                                                                                                            A          B          -         -
                TR: AFI 31-205
                38. Captives, detainees, and prisoners                                                                             -         -          -         -
                38.1. Treatment of captives, detainees
                and prisoners
     *                                                                                                                            A          B          -         -
                TR: DoDD 2310.01E; JP 3-63; AR 190-8;
                FM 19-4; FM 2-22.3; AFMAN 10-100


                                                                   A-13
                                                               2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                               Note)


Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A         B          A        B          C          D            A         B              C
                                                                                                                                 3 Skill   5 Skill     7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level
                                                                5 Level   7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer      (1)        (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                                      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC

                38.2. Field process captives, detainees,
                and prisoners
     *                                                                                                                            1a         b          -         -
                TR: FM 19-4; FM 3-19.4; AR 190-8;
                AFMAN 10-100
                39. Surveillance and detection                                                                                     -         -          -         -
                39.1. Integrated Defense Security
     *          Systems concept of operations                                                                                     B          B          -        B
                TR: AFTTP 3-10.1; AFI 31-101
                39.2. Unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV)
                system and Wide Area Detection System
                                                                                                                                   -         -          -         -
                (WADS) capabilities
                TR: AFI 31-101
                39.3. Determine observation post or
                listening post locations                                                                                           -         -          -        b
                TR: AFH 31-302; FM 3-19.4; FM 3-21.08
                39.4. Perform listening post (LP) and
     *          observation post duties (OP)                      X                                                               2b         -          -         -
                TR: AFH 31-302; FM 3-21.08; FM 3-19.4
                39.5. Use night vision equipment
                TR: TM 11-5855-306-10; T.O. 12S10-                X                                                                -         b          -         -
                2PVS7-11; FM 3-21.08
                40. Entry control and circulation                                                                                  -         -          -         -
                40.1. Installation entry control                                                                                   -         -          -         -
                40.1.1. Establish search areas, barrier
                and obstacle plans, additive procedures
                TR: MIL HNDBK 1013/14; FM 3-21.08;                                                                                 -         -          -        b
                FM 5-102; FM 3-19.30; USAF Bomb
                Mitigation Guide; CALL HDBK 03-20
                40.1.2. Random anti-terrorism measures
     *          (RAMS)                                                                                                            B          -          -         -
                TR: AFI 10-245
                40.1.3. Nuclear/non-nuclear Safe Haven
     *          TR: JP 1-2; DoD S-5210.41M; AFMAN 31-                                                                             A          -          -         -
                108; AFI 31-101
                40.1.4. Home-station/deployed installation
     *          entry control duties                              X                                                               B          -          -         -
                TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 3
                40.2. Establish entry control points
                TR: AFI 31-101; TC 19-210; AFTTP 3-31.1;                                                                           -         -          -        b
                USAF Entry Control Facility Design Guide
                40.3. Establish temporary restricted areas
                                                                                                                                   -         -          -        b
                TR: AFI 31-101
                40.4. Restricted area entry control                                                                                -         -          -         -
                40.4.1. Perform restricted area entry
                duties
     *                                                                                                                            1a         b          -         -
                TR: AFI 31-101; DoD S-5210.41M;
                AFMAN 31-108
                40.4.2. Close boundary sentry (CBS)
                duty
     *                                                                                                                            A          -          -         -
                TR: DoD S-5210.41M; AFMAN 31-108;
                AFI 31-101


                                                                   A-14
                                                               2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                               Note)


Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A         B          A        B          C          D            A         B              C
                                                                                                                                 3 Skill   5 Skill     7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level
                                                                5 Level   7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer      (1)        (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                                      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC

       40.4.3. No lone zone
     * TR: DoD S-5210.41M; AFMAN 31-108;                                                                                          A          B          -         -
       AFI 31-101
       41. Incident scenes                                                                                                         -         -          -         -
       41.1. Conduct preliminary investigations
       of incidents or complaints
                                                                                                                                   -         -          -        b
       TR: AFI 31-206; AFMAN 31-201, Vol 2,
       3, & 4; FM 19-20; AFI 31-101
       41.2. Conduct follow-up investigations of
       incidents or complaints                                                                                                     -         -          -        b
       TR: AFI 31-206; FM 19-20
       41.3. Secure crime and major accident,
       disaster and incident scenes
     * TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol 2, 3 & 4;                            X                                                                b         b          -         c
       AFTTP (I) 3-2.37; MCRP 3-02E;
       AFI 31-206
       41.4. Process crime scenes
       TR: AFI 31-206; AFMAN 31-201, Vol 3;                                                                                        -         b          -        b
       FM 19-20
       42. Application of force                                                                                                    -         -          -         -
       42.1. Concepts and principles of use of
     * force                                                      X                                                               B          C          -         -
       TR: AFI 31-207; AFMAN 31-222
       42.2. Rules of engagement
                                                                                                                                   -        A           -        B
       TR: AFMAN10-100; CJCSI 3121.01A
       42.3. Less than deadly force                                                                                                -         -          -         -
       42.3.1. Introduction to non-lethal
       techniques
     *                                                                                                                            A          B          -        B
       TR: AFMAN 31-222; AFI 31-202;
       AFMAN 10-100, AFTTP (I) 3-2.45
       42.3.2. Challenge individuals
     *                                                            X                                                               2b         c          -         -
       TR: AFMAN 31-222
       42.3.3. Inter/Intra-personal skills
                                                                                                                                   -         -          -         -
       TR: AFMAN 31-222
       42.3.4. Employ physical apprehension
     * and restraint techniques (PART)                            X                                                               2b         c          -         -
       TR: AFMAN 31-222
       42.3.5. Demonstrate weapons retention
     *                                                            X                                                               2b         -          -         -
       TR: AFMAN 31-222
       42.3.6. Perform handcuffing
     *                                                            X                                                               2b         c          -         -
       TR: AFMAN 31-222
       42.4. Intermediate use of force weapons                                                                                     -         -          -         -
       42.4.1. Types of intermediate use of force
     * weapons                                                                                                                    A          -          -         -
       TR: AFMAN 31-222
       42.4.2. Demonstrate proper expandable
       baton techniques                                                                                                            -         b          -         -
       TR: AFMAN 31-222
       42.4.3. Demonstrate proper use of
       OC/Pepper Spray                                                                                                             -         b          -         -
       TR: AFMAN 31-222


                                                                   A-15
                                                               2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                               Note)


Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A         B          A        B          C          D            A         B              C
                                                                                                                                 3 Skill   5 Skill     7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level
                                                                5 Level   7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer      (1)        (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                                      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC

       42.4.4. Demonstrate proper use of TAZER®
                                                                                                                                   -         b          -         -
       TR: AFMAN 31-222, AFI 31-207
       42.4.5. Use offensive/defensive combative
       techniques                                                                                                                  -         -          -         -
       TR: FM 3-25.150
       42.4.6. Use non-lethal weapons capability
       sets
       TR: AFTTP(I) 3-2.45; Enabling CONOPS                                                                                        -         -          -         -
       for AF NLCS; USAF NLC CONOPS;
       AFMAN 31-201, Vol 6
       42.5. Deadly force                                                                                                          -         -          -         -
       42.5.1. Demonstrate the ability to apply
     * deadly force techniques                                    X                                                               3c         c          -         -
       TR: AFI 31-207; AFMAN 31-222
       42.5.2. Weapons                                                                                                             -         -          -         -
       42.5.2.1. Practice/enforce weapons safety
     *                                                            X                                                               3c         -          -         -
       TR: AFI 31-207; AFMAN 31-229
       42.5.2.2. M9 Pistol                                                                                                         -         -          -         -
       42.5.2.2.1. Operator maintenance
     * TR: T.O. 11W3-3-5-1                                        X                                                               A          B          -         -
                42.5.2.2.2. Characteristics
     *                                                            X                                                               A          B          -         -
                TR: T.O. 11W3-3-5-1
                42.5.2.2.3. Nomenclature
     *                                                            X                                                               A          B          -         -
                TR: T.O. 11W3-3-5-1
                42.5.2.2.4. Operations and functions
     *                                                            X                                                               A          B          -         -
                TR: T.O. 11W3-3-5-1; AFMAN 31-229
                42.5.2.2.5. Malfunctions and stoppages
     *                                                            X                                                               A          B          -         -
                TR: T.O. 11W3-3-5-1
                42.5.2.2.6. Ammunition types and uses
     *                                                            X                                                               A          B          -         -
                TR: T.O. 11W3-3-5-1
                42.5.2.2.7. Qualify with the M9 pistol
     *          TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227, Vol.              X                                                               3b         -          -         -
                1 (See Note 2)
                42.5.2.3. M4 Carbine (See Note 3)                                                                                  -         -          -         -
                42.5.2.3.1. Operator maintenance
     *                                                            X                                                               A          B          -         -
                TR: T.O. 11W3-5-5-41
                42.5.2.3.2 Characteristics
     *                                                            X                                                               A          B          -         -
                TR: T.O. 11W3-5-5-41
                42.5.2.3.3. Nomenclature
     *                                                            X                                                               A          B          -         -
                TR: T.O. 11W3-5-5-41
                42.5.2.3.4. Operations and functions
     *                                                            X                                                               A          B          -         -
                TR: T.O. 11W3-5-5-41
                42.5.2.3.5. Malfunctions and stoppages
     *                                                            X                                                               A          B          -         -
                TR: T.O. 11W3-5-5-41
                42.5.2.3.6. Install associated equipment
     *                                                            X                                                               1a         b          -         -
                TR: (See Note 7)
                42.5.2.3.7. Ammunition types and uses
     *                                                            X                                                               A          B          -         -
                TR: T.O. 11W3-5-5-41
                42.5.2.3.8. Qualify with the M4 carbine
     *          TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1             X                                                               3b         -          -         -
                (See Note 2)

                                                                   A-16
                                                               2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                               Note)


Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A         B          A        B          C          D            A         B              C
                                                                                                                                 3 Skill   5 Skill     7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level
                                                                5 Level   7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer      (1)        (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                                      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC

                42.5.2.4. M249 automatic rifle (AR)                                                                                -         -          -         -
                42.5.2.4.1. Ammunition types and uses
     *                                                                                                                            A          B          -         -
                TR: FM 3-22.68
                42.5.2.4.2. Operator maintenance
     *                                                                                                                            A          B         B          -
                TR: FM 3-22.68
                42.5.2.4.3. Characteristics
     *                                                                                                                            A          B         B          -
                TR: FM 3-22.68
                42.5.2.4.4. Nomenclature
     *                                                                                                                            A          B         B          -
                TR: FM 3-22.68
                42.5.2.4.5. Operations and functions
     *                                                                                                                            A          B         B          -
                TR: FM 3-22.68
                42.5.2.4.6. Malfunctions and stoppages
     *                                                                                                                            A          B         B          -
                TR: FM 3-22.68
                42.5.2.4.7. Install associated equipment
                                                                                                                                   -         -          -         -
                TR: (See Note 7)
                42.5.2.4.8. Qualify with the M249
     *          automatic rifle                                                                                                   3b         -          -         -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1 (See Note 4)
                42.5.2.5. M240B machine gun                                                                                        -         -          -         -
                42.5.2.5.1. Ammunition types and uses
     *          TR: T.O. 11W2-6-5-1; FM 3-22.68 (See                                                                              A          B          -         -
                Note 5)
                42.5.2.5.2. Operator maintenance
     *                                                                                                                            A          B         B          -
                TR: T.O. 11W2-6-5-1; FM 3-22.68
                42.5.2.5.3. Characteristics
     *                                                                                                                            A          B         B          -
                TR: T.O. 11W2-6-5-1; FM 3-22.68
                42.5.2.5.4. Nomenclature
     *                                                                                                                            A          B         B          -
                TR: T.O. 11W2-6-5-1; FM 3-22.68
                42.5.2.5.5. Operations and functions
     *                                                                                                                            A          B         B          -
                TR: T.O. 11W2-6-5-1; FM 3-22.68
                42.5.2.5.6. Malfunctions and stoppages
     *                                                                                                                            A          B         B          -
                TR: T.O. 11W2-6-5-1; FM 3-22.68
                42.5.2.5.7. Install associated equipment
                                                                                                                                   -         -          -         -
                TR: (See Note 7)
                42.5.2.5.8. Qualify with the M240B
     *          machine gun                                                                                                       3b         -          -         -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227 (See Note 4)
                42.5.2.6. M203 Grenade Launcher                                                                                    -         -          -         -
                42.5.2.6.1. Ammunition types and uses
     *                                                                                                                            A          B          -         -
                TR: T.O. 11W3-9-4-1; FM 3-22.31
                42.4.2.6.2. Operator maintenance
     *                                                                                                                            A          B          -         -
                TR: T.O. 11W3-9-4-1; FM 3-22.31
                42.5.2.6.3. Characteristics
     *                                                                                                                            A          B          -         -
                TR: T.O. 11W3-9-4-1; FM 3-22.31
                42.5.2.6.4. Nomenclature
     *                                                                                                                            A          B          -         -
                TR: T.O. 11W3-9-4-1; FM 3-22.31
                42.5.2.6.5. Operations and functions
     *                                                                                                                            A          B          -         -
                TR: T.O. 11W3-9-4-1; FM 3-22.31
                42.5.2.6.6. Malfunctions and stoppages
     *                                                                                                                            A          B          -         -
                TR: T.O. 11W3-9-4-1; FM 3-22.31


                                                                   A-17
                                                               2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                               Note)


Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A         B          A        B          C          D            A         B              C
                                                                                                                                 3 Skill   5 Skill     7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level
                                                                5 Level   7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer      (1)        (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                                      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC

       42.5.2.6.7. Install associated equipment
                                                                                                                                   -         -          -         -
       TR: (See Note 7)
       42.5.2.6.8. Qualify with the M203
       grenade launcher
     *                                                                                                                            3b         -          -         -
       TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1
       (See Note 4)
       42.5.2.7. MK19 (40mm Machine gun)
       capabilities and employment
                                                                                                                                   -         B          -         -
       TR: AFI 31-305; T.O. 11W2-5-16-1; T.O.
       11W2-8-32-4; FM 3-22.27
       42.5.2.8. M2 (50 cal machine gun)
       capabilities and employment
                                                                                                                                   -         B          -         -
       TR: AFI 31-305; T.O. 11W2-6-3-161; FM
       23-65
       42.5.2.9. M500/M870/M12/MCS
       shotgun                                                                                                                     -         B          -         -
       TR: T.O. 11W3-6-2-1
       42.5.2.10. M24 Rifle capabilities and
       employment                                                                                                                  -        A           -        B
       TR: SFOI 31-1; FM 23-10
       42.5.2.11. M107, Cal.50 Special Application
       Sniper Rifle capabilities and employment                                                                                    -        A           -        B
       TR: T.O. 11W2-5-7-1
       42.5.2.12. Employ hand grenades
                                                                                                                                   -         a          -         -
       TR: FM 23-30; STP 21-1-SMCT
       42.5.2.13. Anti-tank weapon                                                                                                 -         -          -         -
       42.5.2.13.1. Prepare weapon for firing
                                                                                                                                   -         a          -         -
       TR: FM 3-23.25
       42.5.2.13.2. Apply immediate action to
       correct malfunctions and perform misfire
                                                                                                                                   -         a          -         -
       procedures
       TR: FM 3-23.25
       42.5.2.13.3. Restore anti-tank weapon to
       carry configuration                                                                                                         -         a          -         -
       TR: FM 3-23.25
       42.5.2.14. Employ an M18A1 claymore
       mine                                                                                                                        -         a          -         -
       TR: STP 21-1-SMCT; FM 23-23
       43. Range operations                                                                                                        -         -          -         -
       43.1. Safety
       TR: AFI 36-2226; AFI 91-301; AFMAN
                                                                                                                                   -         -         B          -
       91-201; AFSFC Firing Line Official Lesson
       Plan; AFOSH Standards; OSHA Standards,
       43.2. Live fire procedures
       TR: AFI 36-2226; AFSFC Firing Line                                                                                          -         -         B          -
       Official Lesson Plan
       43.3. Ammunition accountability
                                                                                                                                   -         -         A          -
       TR: AFMAN 23-110; AFI 21-201
       44. Prepare a weapons range card
     * TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227,                            X                                                               2b         b          -         -
       Vol. 2 (See Note 6)


                                                                   A-18
                                                               2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                               Note)


Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A         B          A        B          C          D            A         B              C
                                                                                                                                 3 Skill   5 Skill     7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level
                                                                5 Level   7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer      (1)        (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                                      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC

                45. Evaluate completed range cards for
                accuracy
                                                                                                                                   -         -        2b          -
                TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227,
                Vol. 2 (See Note 6)
                46. Tactics, techniques, and procedures                                                                            -         -          -         -
                46.1. Searches                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
                46.1.1. Conduct individual searches
     *                                                            X                                                               2b         c          -         -
                TR: AFMAN 31-222; AFI 31-201
                46.1.2. Search a building
     *                                                            X                                                               2b         c          -         -
                TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 3
                46.1.3. Search an area
     *                                                            X                                                               2b         c          -         -
                TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 3
                46.1.4. Search a vehicle
     *                                                            X                                                               2b         c          -         -
                TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 3
                46.1.5. Search for evidence
                                                                                                                                   -         -          -        b
                TR: FM 19-20; AFI 31-201
                46.2. Crisis intervention                                                                                          -         -          -         -
                46.2.1. Child abuse
     *                                                                     X                                                      A          -          -        B
                TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 4; FM 3-19.1
                46.2.2. Rape
     *                                                                     X                                                      A          -          -        B
                TR: FM 3-19.1; Manual for Courts Martial
                46.2.3. Assault
     *          TR: FM 3-19.1; Manual for Courts Martial;                  X                                                      A          -          -        B
                AFI 31-206; AFMAN 31-201, Vol 4
                46.2.4. Conduct interviews
     *          TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 2; AFI 31-206;             X                                                               1a         b          -        b
                FM 3-19.1
                46.2.5 Interrogation of suspects
                TR: AFI 31-206; AFMAN 31-201, Vol 2;                                                                               -         -          -        A
                FM 3-19.1
                46.2.6. Respond and defuse domestic
     *          situations                                                 X                                                      1a         b          -        b
                TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol 4
                46.3. Patrolling                                                                                                   -         -          -         -
                46.3.1. Installation patrol                                                                                        -         -          -         -
                46.3.1.1. Traffic management
                                                                                                                                   -         -          -        B
                TR: AFI 31-204
                46.3.1.2. Direct traffic
                                                                  X                                                                -         b          -         -
                TR: FM 19-25
                46.3.1.3. Respond to vehicle accidents
                                                                                                                                   -         b          -         -
                TR: AFI 31-204; FM 19-25
                46.3.1.4. Speed measuring devices
                                                                                                                                   -         B          -         -
                TR: AFI 31-218(I)
                46.3.1.5. Alcohol detection equipment
                                                                                                                                   -         B          -         -
                TR: AFI 31-218(I)
                46.3.1.6. Perform field sobriety tests
                                                                                                                                   -         b          -         -
                TR: AFI 31-204
                46.3.1.7. Perform traffic stops
     *                                                            X                                                               1a         b          -         -
                TR: AFI 31-204; FM 19-25




                                                                   A-19
                                                               2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                               Note)


Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A         B          A        B          C          D            A         B              C
                                                                                                                                 3 Skill   5 Skill     7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level
                                                                5 Level   7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer      (1)        (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                                      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC

       46.3.1.8. Respond to cantonment area
     * alarms                                                                                                                     2b         -          -        b
       TR: AFI 31-101
       46.3.1.9. Respond to restricted area
       alarms
     * TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 3; DoD S-                                                                                           2b         -          -        b
       5210.41M; (S)AFMAN 31-108; AFI 31-101;
       AFI 31-207
       46.3.1.10. Conduct building checks
                                                                  X                                                                -         -          -         -
       TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol 3
       46.3.1.11. Community policing
     *                                                                                                                            A          B          -         -
       TR: AFI 31-101; AFI 31-201
       46.3.1.12. Conduct a field interview
     *                                                                                                                            1a         -          -         -
       TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol 7; AFI 31-206
       46.3.1.13. Victim/Witness Assistance
       Program
     *                                                            X                                                               A          -          -        B
       TR: AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 7; AFI 31-206;
       FM 19-20; DA PAM 10-1; AFI 51-201
       46.3.2. Contingency patrol                                                                                                  -         -          -         -
       46.3.2.1. Lead a combat patrol
                                                                           X                                                       -         -          -        b
       TR: FM 3-21.8; FM 19-4
       46.3.2.2. Perform pre-combat inspections
     * (PCI)                                                                                                                      1a         -          -         -
       TR: CALL HDBK 04-27; FM 3-21.10
       46.3.2.3. Prepare a warning order
                                                                                                                                   -         -        2b          -
       TR: AFH 31-302; FM 3-21.8
       46.3.2.4. Prepare an operations order
                                                                                                                                   -         -        2b          -
       TR: AFH 31-302; FM 3-21.8
       46.3.2.5. Participate in a combat patrol
     *                                                            X                                                               2b         -          -         -
       TR: FM 3-21.10; FM 19-4
       46.3.2.6. Lead a reconnaissance patrol
                                                                           X                                                       -         -          -        b
       TR: FM 3-21.8; FM 19-4
       46.3.2.7. Participate in a recon patrol
     *                                                            X                                                               2b         -          -         -
       TR: FM 3-21.8; FM 19-4
       46.4. Movement                                                                                                              -         -          -         -
       46.4.1. Perform individual tactics
     * TR: FM 21-75; STP 21-1, FM 3-21.8; AFH                                                                                     1a         b          -        b
       31-302
       46.4.2. Employ fire and maneuver
     * techniques                                                                                                                 2b         b          -        b
       TR: FM 3-21.8; FM 3-22.68
       46.4.3. Move as a member of a fire team
     *                                                                                                                            2b         b          -         -
       TR: FM 3-21.8
       46.4.4. Lead fire team movements
                                                                  X                                                                -         b          -         -
       TR: FM 3-21.8
       46.4.5. Participate as a member in a tactical
     * squad movement                                             X                                                               2b         -          -         -
       TR: FM 3-21.8
       46.4.6. Lead tactical squad movements
                                                                           X                                                       -         -          -        b
       TR: FM 3-21.8



                                                                   A-20
                                                                2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                                Note)


Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       A         B          A        B          C          D            A         B              C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill     7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level
                                                                 5 Level   7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer      (1)        (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                                       Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC

                46.4.7. Cross a danger area
     *                                                             X                                                               2b         -          -         -
                TR: FM 3-21.8
                46.4.8. React to contact
     *                                                             X                                                               2b         -          -         -
                TR: FM 3-21.8
                46.4.9. React to indirect fire
     *          TR: AFH 31-302; FM 3-21.8; ARTEP 7-8                                                                               1a         -          -        B
                Drill
                46.4.10. React to ambush                                                                                            -         -          -         -
                46.4.10.1. Far
     *                                                             X                                                               1a         b          -         -
                TR: FM 3-21.8
                46.4.10.2. Near
     *                                                             X                                                               1a         b          -         -
                TR: FM 3-21.8
                46.4.11. Lead a hasty ambush
                                                                            X                                                       -         -          -        b
                TR: FM 3-21.8
                46.4.12. Participate in a hasty ambush
     *                                                             X                                                               1a         b          -         -
                TR: FM 3-21.8
                46.4.13. Lead a deliberate ambush
                                                                            X                                                       -         -          -        b
                TR: FM 3-21.8
                46.4.14. Participate in a deliberate ambush
     *                                                                                                                             1a         b          -         -
                TR: FM 3-21.8
                46.4.15. Break contact
     *                                                             X                                                               1a         b          -         -
                TR: FM 3-21.8
                46.4.16. Conduct troop leading procedures
                                                                                                                                    -         a          -        b
                TR: AFH 31-302; FM 3-21.8
                46.4.17. Participate in retrograde operations
                                                                   X                                                                -         b          -        b
                TR: FM 3-21.8
                46.4.18. Consolidate and reorganize
     *                                                             X                                                               1a         b          -         -
                TR: AFH 31-302; FM 3-21.8
                46.4.19. Battlefield control measures (phase
     *          lines, rally points, sectors, etc)                 X                                                               A          B          -         -
                TR: FM 3-21.8
                46.4.20. Perform tactical deployment from
     *          vehicles                                           X                                                               2b         b          -         -
                TR: CALL 04-27; CALL; 04-24
                47. Urban operations                                                                                                -         -          -         -
                47.1. Principles of urban operations
     *                                                                                                                             B          -          -         -
                TR: FM 3-06.11; FM 3-21.8
                47.2. Perform movement techniques
     *          during urban operations                            X                                                               2b         -          -        b
                TR: FM 3-06.11
                47.3. Enter and clear a building in an
     *          urban area                                         X                                                               2b         -          -        b
                TR: FM 3-06.11; FM 3-21.8
                48. Weapons emplacement                                                                                             -         -          -         -
                48.1. Interlocking fields of
     *          fire/observation                                   X                                                               B          -          -         -
                TR: FM 3-21.8; AFH 31-302; FM 21-75
                48.2. Select crew-served weapons
                positions                                          X                                                                -         a          -        b
                TR: FM 3-21.8; FM 3-22.68



                                                                    A-21
                                                               2. Core Tasks        3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                               Note)


Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A         B          A        B          C          D            A         B              C
                                                                                                                                 3 Skill   5 Skill     7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level
                                                                5 Level   7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer      (1)        (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                                      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC

                48.3. Use fire control measures
     *                                                            X                                                               1a         -         b         b
                TR: FM 3-21.8; FM 21-75
                48.4. Target identification
     *                                                                                                                            B          B          -         -
                TR: FM 3-22.9, FM 3-21.8
                48.5. Use methods of range determination
     *                                                                                                                            2b         -          -         -
                TR: FM 3-22.9; FM 3-21.8; FM 21-75
                49. Fundamentals of defense
     *                                                                                                                            B          B          -        C
                TR: JP 3-10.1; FM 3-21.8
                50. Defense in-depth
     *                                                                                                                            B          -          -        B
                TR: FM 3-21.8; AFH 31-302; JP 3-10.1
                51. Routines in defense
     *                                                                                                                            A          -         A         B
                TR: AFH 31-302
                52. Defensive sectors                                                                                              -         -          -         -
                52.1. Establish a defensive sector
                                                                                                                                   -         -          -        b
                TR: AFH 31-302; AFH 31-305; FM 3-21.8
                52.2. Prepare a sector sketch
                                                                                                                                   -         -        2b         b
                TR: AFH 31-302; FM 3-21.8; FM 3-21.9
                52.3. Overlays, charts & forms
                                                                           X                                                       -        A           -        B
                TR: AFH 31-302
                53. React to Improvised Explosive
                Devices (5 & 25, rehearsals, perform at
                convoys/MOUT, etc)
     *          TR: FM 3-90.119/MCIP 3-17.01, Combined                                                                            1a         -          -         -
                Arms IED Defeat Operations; Weapons
                Technical Intelligence Improvised Explosive
                Device Lexicon
                54. Conduct and evaluate battle drills and
                mission rehearsals                                                                                                 -         -          -        b
                TR: ARTEP 7-8 Drill, AFI 36-2225
                55. Individual equipment wear and care
                (proper wear, care, standardize individual
     *          equipment)                                                                                                        A          -          -         -
                TR: AFSFC Web Page, Standardized SF
                Equipment List and Master UTCs




                                                                   A-22
      Specialty Training Standard
AFSC 3P0X1A, MILITARY WORKING DOG
              HANDLER




                  B-1
This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                      Initials (Written)              SSAN




                                      Printed Name Of Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                    N/I

N/I                                                                    N/I

N/I                                                                    N/I

N/I                                                                    N/I

N/I                                                                    N/I

N/I                                                                    N/I

N/I                                                                    N/I

N/I                                                                    N/I




                                              QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                             Proficiency Code Key
                                     Scale    Definition: The individual
                                     Value
                                       1      Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (Extremely
                                              Limited)
          Task                         2      Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
      Performance                      3      Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
         Levels                        4      Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task.
                                              (Highly Proficient)
                                       a      Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)
         *Task                         b      Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)
       Knowledge                       c      Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                                              (Operating Principles)
          Levels                       d      Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
                                       A      Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
       **Subject                       B      Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (Principles)
       Knowledge                       C      Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
        Levels                         D      Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)


Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

X This mark is used for core task.

 NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war time.




                                                                     B-2
                                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                              Indicate raining/Information
                                                                                                              Provided (See note)
Wartime

          1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical           A        B       A        B         C          D             A              B
Tasks

          References                                                                                             3 Skill        5 Skill
                                                                                                                 Level          Level
                                                       5       7      Tng      Tng     Trainee    Trainer         (1)             (2)
                                                     level   level    Start   Compl    Initials   Initials       Course          CDC
                                                                               ete
          1. Principles of Conditioning                                                                             -               -
 *        1.1. Needs                                  X                                                             B              B
          TR: AFMAN 31-219
 *        1.2. Senses                                 X                                                             B              B
          TR: AFMAN 31-219
 *        1.3. Learning Acquisition                   X                                                             B              B
          TR: AFMAN 31-219
 *        1.4. Types of Training                      X                                                             B              B
          TR: AFMAN 31-219
          2. Concept of Utilization/Employment                                                                      -              -
          2.1. Security Forces (SF) operations                                                                      -              -
 *        2.1.1. Detector Dogs                        X                                                             B              B
          TR: AFMAN 31-219; AFI 31-202
 *        2.1.2. Patrol Dogs                          X                                                             B              B
          TR: AFMAN 31-219; AFI 31-202
 *        2.2. Crisis Response and Limited            X                                                             B              B
          Contingency Operations
          TR: AFI 31-202; AFMAN 31-219; JP3-0,
          Change 1
 *        2.3. Confrontation Management/crowd         X                                                             B              B
          control
          TR: AFMAN 31-219; AFI 31-202
          3. Legal Considerations                                                                                   -              -
 *        3.1. Probable Cause                         X                                                             B              B
          TR: AFI 31-202; AFM 31-219
 *        3.2. Release of dog                         X                                                             B              B
          TR: AFI 31-202
 *        4. Transportation of dogs                   X                                                             A              B
          TR: AFMAN 31-219; AFI 31-202
          5. Safety                                                                                                 -               -
 *        5.1. Practice kennel safety                 X                                                            3c               -
          TR: AFMAN 31-219; AFI 31-202
 *        5.2. Practice Veterinary clinic safety      X                                                             c               -
          TR: AFMAN 31-219; AFI 31-202
 *        5.3. Practice dog safety                    X                                                            3c               -
          TR: AFMAN 31-219; AFI 31-202
          6. Dog grooming, health check and First                                                                   -               -
          Aid
 *        6.1. Perform grooming and health check      X                                                            3c               -
          points
          TR: AFMAN 31-219
 *        6.2. Perform First Aid                      X                                                             c              c
          TR: AFMAN 31-219
 *        6.3. Perform Combat First Aid                                                                            3c              c
          TR: AR STP 8-91T14-SM-TG                    X
          7. Kennels                                                                                                -               -
 *        7.1. Perform maintenance                    X                                                             c               -
          TR: AFMAN 31-219; AFI 31-202
 *        7.2. Perform sanitation                     X                                                            3c               -
          TR: AFMAN 31-219; AFI 31-202
 *        7.3. Field kennel                           X                                                             B              B
          TR: FM 3-19.17; DA Pam 190-12

                                                             B-3
                                                      2. CoreTasks     3. Certification For OJT                4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                Indicate raining/Information
Wartime
                                                                                                                Provided (See note)

Tasks     1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical             A       B        A        B         C          D              A              B
          References                                                                                               3 Skill        5 Skill
                                                                                                                    Level         Level
                                                         5       7      Tng      Tng     Trainee    Trainer          (1)            (2)
                                                       level   level    Start   Compl    Initials   Initials       Course          CDC
                                                                                 ete
          7.4. Selection of kennel location             X                                                               -            A
          TR: AFI 31-202
          7.5. Selection of training location           X                                                               -            A
          TR: AFI 31-202
 *        8. Maintain equipment                         X                                                            3c               -
          TR: AFMAN 31-219
          9. Maintain proficiency of dog/team                                                                         -              -
 *        9.1. Obedience                                X                                                            2b              c
          TR: AFMAN 31-219; AFI 31-202
 *        9.2. Obedience course                         X                                                            2b              c
          TR: AFMAN 31-219; AFI 31-202
 *        9.3. Controlled aggression                    X                                                            2b              c
          TR: AFMAN 31-219; AFI 31-202
 *        9.4. Scouting                                 X                                                            2b              c
          TR: AFMAN 31-219; AFI 31-202
 *        9.5. Building search                          X                                                            2b              c
          TR: AFMAN 31-219; AFI 31-202
 *        9.6. Vehicle patrolling                       X                                                            2b              c
          TR: AFMAN 31-219; AFI 31-202
 *        9.7. Control under gunfire                    X                                                            2b              c
          TR: AFMAN 31-219; AFI 31-202
 *        9.8. Substance detection                      X                                                            2b              c
          TR: AFMAN 31-219; AFI 31-202
          9.9. Tracking                                                                                               A              B
          TR: OPNAVIST 5585.2B
 *        10. Perform as decoy/agitator                 X                                                            2c              c
          TR: AFMAN 31-219
 *        11. Document training/utilization records     X                                                            2b              c
          TR: AFMAN 31-219; AFI 31-202
          12. Drugs                                                                                                     -            -
          12.1. Procurement                             X                                                               -            A
          TR: AFMAN 31-219; AFI 31-202
 *        12.2. Security                                X                                                             B              B
          TR: AFI 31-202
          12.3. Inventory                               X                                                               -            A
          TR: AFMAN 31-219; AFI 31-202
          12.4. Preparation of drug shipment to lab     X                                                               -            A
          of origin
          TR: AFI 31-202
          13. Exp1osive/Chemicals                                                                                       -            -
          13.1. Procurement/forecast                    X                                                               -            A
          TR: AFI 31-202; AFCAT 21-209, Vol 1
          &2
 *        13.2. Security                               X                                                            B               B
          TR: AFI 31-209; AFI 31-202
          13.3. Inventory                               X                                                               -            A
          TR: AFI 31-202
          13.4. Safety/Handling                         X                                                             B              B
          TR: AFI 31-202; AFI 91-201
          13.5. Storage                                 X                                                               -            A
          TR: AFI 31-202; AFI 31-209; AFI 91-201




                                                               B-4
                                                 2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                            Indicate Training/Information
Wartime                                                                                                     Provided (See note)
Tasks     1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical         A       B       A        B           C          D             A              B
          References                                                                                            3 Skill        5 Skill
                                                                                                                Level          Level
                                                    5       7     Tng      Tng        Trainee    Trainer        (1)              (2)
                                                  Level   Level   Start   Compl       Initials   Initials      Course           CDC
                                                                           ete
                                                                                  .
          14. Procedures for ordering                X                                                             -              A
          new/replacement dog(s)
          TR: AFI 31-202; AFJI 23-224
          l5. Use of MWD Teams                                                                                     -              -
  *       15.1. Effective utilization/employment of X                                                                  A              B
          dog teams
          TR: AFMAN 31-219; AFI 31-202
          16. AF Occupational safety and health                                                                    -              -
          (AFOSH) program
  *       16.1. Hazards of AFSC 3P0X1A                                                                            A               A
          TR: AFI 31-202; AFMAN 31-219
  *       16.2. AFOSH standards for AFSC 3P0X1A                                                                   A               A
          TR: Public Law 29CFR 1910, 1030;
          AFI 91-302
  *       16.3. Practice weapon safety (blank                                                                     2b              -
          ammunition)
          TR: AFI 31-207




                                                          B-5
 Specialty Training Standard
AFSC 3P0X1B, COMBAT ARMS




            C-1
This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                      Initials (Written)              SSAN


                                                Printed Name Of Trainer And Written Initials
N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I


N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I



                                              QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                             Proficiency Code Key
                                     Scale    Definition: The individual
                                     Value
                                       1      Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (Extremely
                                              Limited)
          Task                         2      Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
      Performance                      3      Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
         Levels                        4      Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task.
                                              (Highly Proficient)
                                       a      Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)
         *Task                         b      Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)
       Knowledge                       c      Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                                              (Operating Principles)
          Levels                       d      Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
                                       A      Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
       **Subject                       B      Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (Principles)
       Knowledge                       C      Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
        Levels                         D      Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

X This mark is used to indicate core tasks

 NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war time.

Note 1: Approved weapons accessories are identified on the Approved Standardized SF Equipment List,
located on the AFSFC Web Page. The corresponding technical orders are located on the SF-CTE Web Page.




                                                                  C-2
                                                               2. Core             3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Task                                               Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                    Provided (See Note)

Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A          A          B         C            D            A                 B
                                                                                                                     3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level
                                                               5 Level     Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer         (1)                (2)
                                                                           Start     Compl    Initials   Initials       Course             CDC
                                                                                      ete
                1. COMBAT ARMS OPERATION AND                                                                               -                 -
                FACILITY MAINTENANCE
                1.1. Combat arms operations                                                                                -                 -
                1.1.1. Live fire training                                                                                  -                 -
   *            1.1.1.1. Perform firing line instructor                                                                   2b                 b
                duties
                TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227, Vols
                1 & 2.
   *            1.1.1.2. Perform tower operator duties                                                                    2b                 b
                TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227, Vols
                1 & 2.
                1.1.2. Initiate forms, records, and reports                                                                -                 -
   *            1.1.2.1. Manually initiate forms, records                                                                  b                 b
                and reports
                TR: AFI 31-101; AFI 36-2226; AFMAN
                36-2227, Vols 1 & 2
   *            1.1.2.2. Initiate forms, records and reports                                                               b                 b
                via SFMIS
                TR: AFI 31-101; AFI 36-2226; AFMAN
                36-2227, Vols 1 & 2
   *            1.1.3. Maintain Combat Arms reference                                                                      b                 b
                and technical order library
                TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227, Vols
                1 & 2; T.O. 00-5-1; T.O. 00-5-2
                1.1.4. Order and maintain supplies,                                                                        -                 b
                equipment and weapons parts
                TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227, Vol
                1 & 2; AFMAN 23-110; TA 538
   *            1.1.5. Concepts and principles of ordering                                                                 A                 -
                and maintaining supplies, equipment and
                weapons parts
                TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227, Vol
                1 & 2; AFMAN 23-110; TA 538
   *            1.1.6. Prepare munitions forecast                                                                          a                 b
                TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227, Vol
                1 & Vol 2; AFCAT 21-209, Vol 1
   *            1.1.7. Identify range safety procedures                                                                    B                 B
                TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227, Vols
                1 & 2; Small Arms Range Design and
                Construction Engineering Technical Letter
                (ETL)
   *            1.1.8. Identify common ground combat             X                                                         B                 -
                ammunition
                TR: AFCAT 21-209 Vol 1; T.O. 11A13-
                10-7; T.O. 11A8-2-1; FMs 3-22.9, 3-23.35,
                3-22.31, 3-22.68, 3-22.65,
                1.2. Combat Arms facilities                                                                                -                 -
                1.2.1. Maintain baffles, berms and                                                                         -                 b
                backstops
                TR: AFI 36-2226; Small Arms Range
                Design and Construction ETL


                                                                     C-3
                                                                 2. Core             3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                   Task                                               Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)

Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       A          A          B         C            D            A                 B
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level
                                                                 5 Level     Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer         (1)                (2)
                                                                             Start     Compl    Initials   Initials       Course             CDC
                                                                                        ete
                1.2.2. Maintain firing line/target line                                                                      -                 b
                TR: AFI 36-2226; Small Arms Range
                Design and Construction ETL
                1.2.3. Conduct range inspections,                                                                            -                 b
                certifications, test fire and trial operations
                TR: AFI 36-2226; Small Arms Range
                Design and Construction ETL
                1.2.4. Advise on range construction                                                                          -                 b
                TR: AFI 36-2226; Small Arms Range
                Design and Construction ETL
   *            1.2.5. Explain range types                                                                                   B                 B
                TR: AFI 36-2226; Small Arms Range
                Design and Construction ETL
   *            1.2.6. Explain range characteristics                                                                         B                 B
                TR: AFI 36-2226; Small Arms Range
                Design and Construction ETL
                1.3. Planning and programming                                                                                -                 -
                requirements for CA facilities
                1.3.1. Analyze requirements                                                                                  -                 -
                TR: AFI 36-2226; Small Arms Range
                Design and Construction ETL; AFH 32-
                1084
                1.3.2. Determine range design criteria                                                                       -                 -
                TR: AFI 36-2226; Small Arms Range
                Design and Construction ETL
                1.3.3. Determine range acceptance                                                                            -                 -
                procedures
                TR: AFI 36-2226; Small Arms Range
                Design and Construction ETL
                1.4. Combat Arms workload data                                                                               -                 -
                1.4.1. Requirements                                                                                          -                 -
   *            1.4.1.1. Weapons training                                                                                    A                 -
                TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227, Vols
                1&2
   *            1.4.1.2. Weapons maintenance                                                                                 A                 -
                TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227, Vol
                1; T.O. 11W-1-10
                1.4.1.3. Administrative                                                                                      -                 -
                TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 37-139
                1.4.1.4. Facility maintenance                                                                                -                 -
                TR: AFI 36-2226
                1.4.1.5. Additional duties                                                                                   -                 -
                TR: AFI 36-2226
                1.4.2. Prepare statistical reports                                                                           -                 -
                TR: AFI 36-2226
                1.5. Range and classroom scheduling                                                                          -                 -
                1.5.1. Determine specific training                                                                           -                 -
                requirements
                TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227, Vols
                1 & 2; AFI 31-207



                                                                       C-4
                                                               2. Core             3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Task                                               Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                    Provided (See Note)

Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A          A          B         C            D            A                 B
                                                                                                                     3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level
                                                               5 Level     Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer         (1)                (2)
                                                                           Start     Compl    Initials   Initials       Course             CDC
                                                                                      ete
     1.5.2. Determine training constraints                                                                                 -                 -
     TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227, Vols
     1&2
   * 1.5.3. Perform scheduling                                                                                             b                 -
     TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227, Vols
     1&2
     1.6. Instructional programs                                                                                           -                 -
     1.6.1. Conduct combat arms training                                                                                   -                 -
     TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227, Vols
     1 & 2; AFMAN 36-2236,
     1.6.2. Conduct weapons maintenance                                                                                    -                 -
     TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227, Vol
     1; Applicable T.O. for weapon (see below)
     1.6.3. Conduct instructor refresher training                                                                          -                 -
     TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227, Vols
     1&2
     1.6.4. Advise and counsel personnel on                                                                                -                 -
     weapons training problems
     TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2236;
     AFMAN 36-2227, Vols 1 & 2
     1.6.5. Train and certify personnel to                                                                                 -                 -
     operate range for unit
     proficiency/sustainment program.
     TR: AFI 36-2226
     1.7. Manage work center files and                                                                                     -                 -
     documentation
     TR: AFMAN 33-363, Air Force Records
     Information Management System
     (AFRIMS)
     1.8. Ground weapons maintenance                                                                                       -                 -
     program
     1.8.1. Complete product quality deficiency                                                                            -                 -
     reports
     TR: AFI 36-2226; T.O. 00-35D-54; DoD
     5000.2; AFI 21-115
     1.8.2. Tools and gauges                                                                                               -                 -
     1.8.2.1. Identify tool and gauge                                                                                      -                 -
     requirements
     TR: AFI 36-2226; T.O.s 11W3-5-5-42,
     11W3-3-5-4, 11W3-3-4-12, 11W3-9-4-2,
     11W3-6-1-154, 11W3-6-1-171, 11W3-6-2-
     1, 11W2-6-5-2, 11W3-5-5-52, 11W2-8-1-
     322, 11W2-8-32-4, 11W2-6-3-172, 11W2-
     5-16-2
     1.8.2.2. Identify acquisition methods                                                                                 -                 -
     TR: AFI 36-2226; T.O.s 11W3-5-5-42,
     11W3-3-5-4, 11W3-3-4-12, 11W3-9-4-2,
     11W3-6-1-154, 11W3-6-1-171, 11W3-6-2-
     1, 11W2-6-5-2, 11W3-5-5-52, 11W2-8-1-
     322, 11W2-8-32-4, 11W2-6-3-172, 11W2-
     5-16-2


                                                                     C-5
                                                               2. Core             3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Task                                               Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                    Provided (See Note)

Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A          A          B         C            D            A                 B
                                                                                                                     3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level
                                                               5 Level     Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer         (1)                (2)
                                                                           Start     Compl    Initials   Initials       Course             CDC
                                                                                      ete
                1.8.2.3. Identify calibration requirements                                                                 -                 -
                TR: T.O. 33K-1-100-1
   *            1.8.2.4. Use tools and gauges                    X                                                        2b                 b
                TR: AFI 36-2226; T.O.s 11W3-5-5-42,
                11W3-3-5-4, 11W3-3-4-12, 11W3-9-4-2,
                11W3-6-1-154, 11W3-6-1-171, 11W3-6-2-
                1, 11W2-6-5-2, 11W3-5-5-52, 11W2-8-1-
                322, 11W2-8-32-4, 11W2-6-3-172, 11W2-
                5-16-2, TB 9-1000-247-34
   *            1.8.2.5. Precision Measurement                                                                             B                 -
                Equipment Laboratory (PMEL) account
                responsibilities
                TR: AFI 36-2226; T.O.s 11W3-5-5-42,
                11W3-3-5-4, 11W3-3-4-12, 11W3-9-4-2,
                11W3-6-1-154, 11W3-6-1-171, 11W3-6-2-
                1, 11W2-6-5-2, 11W3-5-5-52, 11W2-8-1-
                322, 11W2-8-32-4, 11W2-6-3-172, 11W2-
                5-16-2, TB 9-1000-247-34
                1.8.3. Weapons, Munitions and Parts                                                                        -                 -
                1.8.3.1. Determine appropriate levels                                                                      -                 -
                TR: AFI 36-2226; T.O.s 11W3-5-5-42,
                11W3-3-5-4, 11W3-3-4-12, 11W3-9-4-2,
                11W3-6-1-154, 11W3-6-1-171, 11W3-6-2-
                1, 11W2-6-5-2, 11W3-5-5-52, 11W2-8-1-
                322, 11W2-8-32-4, 11W2-6-3-172, 11W2-
                5-16-2,
   *            1.8.3.2. Determine weapons, munitions                                                                      b                 -
                and parts accountability procedures
                TR: AFI 36-2226 1; AFMAN 23-110
                1.8.3.3. Determine disposition procedures                                                                  -                 -
                TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 23-110; DOD
                4160.21-M-1
                1.8.4. Schedule weapons maintenance                                                                        -                 b
                TR: AFI 36-2226; T.O.s T.O.s 11W3-5-
                5-42, 11W3-3-5-4, 11W3-3-4-12, 11W3-9-
                4-2, 11W3-6-1-154, 11W3-6-1-171,
                11W3-6-2-1, 11W2-6-5-2, 11W3-5-5-52,
                11W2-8-1-322, 11W2-8-32-4, 11W2-6-3-
                172, 11W2-5-16-2,
   *            1.8.5. Use technical orders                      X                                                        1a                 b
                TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227 Vols
                1&2
                1.9. Functional relationships between                                                                      -                 -
                combat arms section and other units
                TR: AFI 36-2226; Small Arms Range
                Design and Construction ETL
                1.10. SF and Combat Arms Armories                                                                          -                 -
                1.10.1. Issue and turn-in                                                                                  -                 B
                TR: AFMAN 31-229
                1.10.2. Conduct issue and turn-in                                                                          -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 31-229


                                                                     C-6
                                                               2. Core             3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Task                                               Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                    Provided (See Note)

Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A          A          B         C            D            A                 B
                                                                                                                     3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level
                                                               5 Level     Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer         (1)                (2)
                                                                           Start     Compl    Initials   Initials       Course             CDC
                                                                                      ete
                1.10.3. Inventories                                                                                        -                 -
                1.10.3.1. Weapons inventories                                                                              -                 B
                TR: AFI 31-101; AFI 36-2226; AFMAN
                23-110; AFH 31-223
                1.10.3.2. Conduct weapons inventories                                                                      -                 -
                TR: AFI 31-101; AFI 36-2226; AFMAN
                23-110; AFH 31-223
                1.10.3.3. Munitions inventories                                                                            -                 B
                TR: AFI 31-101; AFI 36-2226; AFI 21-
                201
                1.10.3.4. Conduct munitions inventories                                                                    -                 -
                TR: AFI 31-101; AFI 36-2226; AFI 21-
                201
                1.10.3.5. Ancillary equipment inventories                                                                  -                 B
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; AFMAN
                23-110
                1.10.3.6. Conduct ancillary equipment                                                                      -                 -
                inventories
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; AFMAN
                23-110
                1.10.4. Determine deployed armory                                                                          -                 b
                operations
                TR: DOD 5100.76-M; AFI 31-101
                2. M16 Series/M4 CARBINE                                                                                   -                 -
   *            2.1. Explain characteristics                     X                                                         B                 B
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-5-5-41, 11W3-5-5-42,
                11W3-5-5-121, 11W3-5-5-81(FM 3-22.9)
   *            2.2. Distinguish nomenclature                    X                                                         B                 B
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-5-5-41, 11W3-5-5-42,
                11W3-5-5-121, 11W3-5-5-81(FM 3-22.9)
   *            2.3. Explain operation and functions             X                                                         B                 B
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-5-5-41, 11W3-5-5-42,
                11W3-5-5-121, 11W3-5-5-81(FM 3-22.9)
                2.4. Malfunctions and stoppages                                                                            -                 -
   *            2.4.1. Identify malfunctions and stoppages       X                                                         B                 B
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-5-5-41, 11W3-5-5-42,
                11W3-5-5-81(FM 3-22.9)
   *            2.4.2. Correct malfunctions and clear            X                                                         b                 -
                stoppages
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-5-5-41, 11W3-5-5-42,
                11W3-5-5-81(FM 3-22.9)
                2.5. Identify ammunition types and uses          X                                                         -                 B
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-5-5-41, 11A13-10-7,
                11W3-5-5-81 (FM 3-22.9)
                2.6. Perform sub-depot maintenance                                                                         -                 -
   *            2.6.1. Perform detailed disassembly and          X                                                        2b                 -
                assembly
                TR: T.O. 11W3-5-5-42
   *            2.6.2. Inspect for serviceability (using         X                                                        2b                 b
                gauges when applicable)
                TR: T.O. 11W3-5-5-42


                                                                     C-7
                                                               2. Core             3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Task                                               Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                    Provided (See Note)

Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A          A          B         C            D            A                 B
                                                                                                                     3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level
                                                               5 Level     Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer         (1)                (2)
                                                                           Start     Compl    Initials   Initials       Course             CDC
                                                                                      ete
   * 2.6.3. Perform preventive maintenance                       X                                                        3b                 b
     TR: T.O. 11W3-5-5-42,
   * 2.6.4. Perform function check                               X                                                        2b                 -
     TR: T.O. 11W3-5-5-42
     2.6.5. Perform function fire                                                                                          -                 -
     TR: T.O. 11W3-5-5-42
   * 2.7. Perform loading, reloading and                         X                                                        3b                 -
     clearing
     TR: AFMAN 31-229; T.O. llW3-5-5-41,
   * 2.8. Perform immediate and remedial                         X                                                        3b                 -
     action
     TR: T.O. 11W3-5-5-41
   * 2.9. Perform coaching techniques                            X                                                        2b                 -
     TR: FM 3-22.9; AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1,
   * 2.10. Perform target analysis                               X                                                        2b                 -
     TR: FM 3-22.9; AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1,
   * 2.11. Use marksmanship training aids                                                                                 2b                 b
     TR: FM 3-22.9; AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1,
   * 2.12. Perform marksmanship fundamentals                     X                                                        2b                 b
     TR: FM 3-22.9
   * 2.13. Perform sight adjustments and                         X                                                        2b                 b
     mechanical zero
     TR: T.O.s 11W3-5-5-41, 11W3-5-5-121;
     FM 3-22.9
   * 2.14. Perform battle sight zero                             X                                                        2b                 b
     TR: T.O.s 11W3-5-5-41, 11W3-5-5-121;
     FM3-22.9
     2.15. Install associated equipment                                                                                    -                 -
     TR: (See Note 1)
   * 2.16. Install and remove blank firing                                                                                2b                 -
     adapter
     TR: T.O. 11W3-5-5-41; FM 3-22.9;
     Manufacturer Instructions
   * 2.17. Install and remove Dye Marking                                                                                 2b                 -
     Cartridge Kit
     TR: T.O.s 11W3-5-5-41, FM 3-22.9;
     Manufacturer Instructions
   * 2.18. Fire while wearing gas mask and                                                                                1a                 -
     Individual Body Armor
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-22.9
     2.19. Fire M16A2 and/or M4 for                                                                                        -                 -
     proficiency
     TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227,
     Vol 1;
     2.20. Fire Tactical Rifle Qualification                                                                               -                 -
     Course
     TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227,
     Vol 1
     2.21. Instruct mechanical training                                                                                    -                 -




                                                                     C-8
                                                               2. Core             3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Task                                               Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                    Provided (See Note)

Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A          A          B         C            D            A                 B
                                                                                                                     3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level
                                                               5 Level     Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer         (1)                (2)
                                                                           Start     Compl    Initials   Initials       Course             CDC
                                                                                      ete
                2.21.1. Weapons safety                                                                                     -                 -
                TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227, Vol
                1, AFMAN 31-229; T.O. 11W3-5-5-41;
                FM 3-22.9
                2.21.2. Nomenclature                                                                                       -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O. 11W3-
                5-5-41; FM 3-22.9
                2.21.3. Characteristics                                                                                    -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
                11W3-5-5-41, 11W3-5-5-121; FM 3-22.9
                2.21.4. Operations and functions                                                                           -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
                11W3-5-5-41, 11W3-5-5-121; FM 3-22.9
                2.21.5. Malfunctions and stoppages                                                                         -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
                11W3-5-5-41, 11W3-5-5-42, 11W3-5-5-
                121; FM 3-22.9
                2.21.6. Ammunition types, to include uses                                                                  -                 -
                and packaging
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
                11W3-5-5-41, 11A13-10-7; FM 3-22.9
                2.21.7. Destruction                                                                                        -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O. 11W3-
                5-5-41; FM 3-22.9; TM 750-244-7; DoD
                4160-M-1
                2.21.8. Loading, reloading, and clearing                                                                   -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; AFMAN
                31-229; T.O. 11W3-5-5-41; FM 3-22.9
                2.21.9. Disassembly and assembly                                                                           -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O. 11W3-
                5-5-41; FM 3-22.9
                2.21.10. Function check                                                                                    -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O. 11W3-
                5-5-41; FM 3-22.9
                2.21.11. Operator maintenance                                                                              -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
                11W3-5-5-41, 11W3-5-5-121; FM 3-22.9
                2.21.12. Immediate and remedial action                                                                     -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O. 11W3-
                5-5-41; FM 3-22.9
                2.22. Instruct marksmanship fundamentals                                                                   -                 -
                2.22.1. Aiming                                                                                             -                 -
                2.22.1.1. Sight alignment/picture                                                                          -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O. 11W3-
                5-5-121; FM 3-22.9
                2.22.1.2. Use of sighting and aiming                                                                       -                 -
                training aids
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-22.9
                2.22.1.3. Sight adjustments                                                                                -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
                11W3-5-5-41, 11W3-5-5-121; FM 3-22.9


                                                                     C-9
                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Task                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                  Provided (See Note)

Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        A          B         C            D            A                 B
                                                                                                                   3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level
                                                               5 Level   Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer         (1)                (2)
                                                                         Start     Compl    Initials   Initials       Course             CDC
                                                                                    ete
                2.22.2. Breath control                                                                                   -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-22.9
                2.22.3. Trigger control                                                                                  -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-22.9
                2.22.4. Firing positions                                                                                 -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-22.9
                2.22.5. Range estimation                                                                                 -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-22.9
                2.22.6. Rapid and automatic firing                                                                       -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-22.9
                2.22.7. Night firing techniques                                                                          -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-22.9
                2.22.8. Target engagement                                                                                -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-22.9
                3. M9/M11 PISTOL                                                                                         -                 -
   *            3.1. Explain characteristics                     X                                                       B                 B
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-3-5-1, 11W3-3-5-4,
                11W3-3-4-11, 11W3-3-4-12; FM 3-23.35
   *            3.2. Distinguish nomenclature                    X                                                       B                 B
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-3-5-1, 11W3-3-5-4,
                11W3-3-4-11, 11W3-3-4-12; FM 3-23.35
   *            3.3. Explain operation and functions             X                                                       B                 B
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-3-5-1, 11W3-3-5-4,
                11W3-3-4-11, 11W3-3-4-12; FM 3-23.35
                3.4. Malfunctions and stoppages                                                                          -                 -
   *            3.4.1. Identify malfunctions and stoppages       X                                                       B                 B
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-3-5-1, 11W3-3-5-4,
                11W3-3-4-11, 11W3-3-4-12; FM 3-23.35
   *            3.4.2. Correct malfunctions and clear            X                                                       b                 -
                stoppages
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-3-5-1, 11W3-3-5-4,
                11W3-3-4-11, 11W3-3-4-12; FM 3-23.35
                3.5. Identify ammunition types and uses          X                                                       -                 B
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-3-5-1, 11W3-3-4-11,
                11A13-10-7; FM 3-23.35
                3.6. Sub-depot maintenance                                                                               -                 -
   *            3.6.1. Perform detailed disassembly and          X                                                      2b                 -
                assembly
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-3-5-4, 11W3-3-4-12
   *            3.6.2. Inspect for serviceability (using         X                                                      2b                 b
                gauges when applicable)
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-3-5-4, 11W3-3-4-12
   *            3.6.3. Perform preventive maintenance            X                                                      3b                 b
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-3-5-1, 11W3-3-5-4,
                11W3-3-4-11, 11W3-3-4-12
   *            3.6.4. Perform function check                    X                                                      2b                 -
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-3-5-1, 11W3-3-5-4,
                11W3-3-4-11, 11W3-3-4-12
                3.6.5. Perform function fire                                                                             -                 -
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-3-5-4, 11W3-3-4-12



                                                                  C-10
                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Task                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                  Provided (See Note)

Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        A          B         C            D            A                 B
                                                                                                                   3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level
                                                               5 Level   Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer         (1)                (2)
                                                                         Start     Compl    Initials   Initials       Course             CDC
                                                                                    ete
   * 3.7. Perform loading, reloading and                         X                                                      3b                 -
     clearing
     TR: AFMAN 31-229; T.O.s 11W3-3-5-1,
     11W3-3-4-11; FM 3-23.35
   * 3.8. Perform immediate action and                           X                                                      3b                 -
     trouble- shooting procedures (remedial
     action)
     TR: T.O.s 11W3-3-5-1, 11W3-3-5-4,
     11W3-3-4-11, 11W3-3-4-12; FM 3-23.35
   * 3.9. Perform coaching techniques                            X                                                      2b                 -
     TR: FM 3-23.35; AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1
   * 3.10. Perform target analysis                               X                                                      2b                 -
     TR: FM 3-23.35; AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1
   * 3.11. Use marksmanship training aids                                                                               2b                 b
     TR: FM 3-23.35; AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1
   * 3.12. Perform marksmanship fundamentals                     X                                                      2b                 b
     TR: FM 3-23.35
     3.13. Fire pistol                                                                                                   -                 -
     3.13.1. Proficiency                                                                                                 -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1, FM
     3-23.35
     3.13.2. Advanced/specialized handgun                                                                                -                 -
     course
     TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227, Vol
     1; FM 3-23.35
   * 3.13.3. Fire while wearing gas mask and                                                                            1a                 -
     Individual Body Armor
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-23.35
     3.14. Instruct mechanical training                                                                                  -                 -
     3.14.1. Weapons safety                                                                                              -                 -
     TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227, Vol
     1; T.O.s 11W3-3-5-1, 11W3-3-4-11; FM 3-
     23.35
     3.14.2. Nomenclature                                                                                                -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
     11W3-3-5-1, 11W3-3-5-4, 11W3-3-4-11,
     11W3-3-4-12; FM 3-23.35
     3.14.3. Characteristics                                                                                             -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
     11W3-3-5-1, 11W3-3-5-4, 11W3-3-4-11,
     11W3-3-4-12; FM 3-23.35
     3.14.4. Operations and functions                                                                                    -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
     11W3-3-5-1, 11W3-3-4-11; FM 3-23.35
     3.14.5. Malfunctions and stoppages                                                                                  -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
     11W3-3-5-1,11W3-3-5-4, 11W3-3-4-11,
     11W3-3-4-12; FM 3-23.35




                                                                  C-11
                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Task                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                  Provided (See Note)

Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        A          B         C            D            A                 B
                                                                                                                   3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level
                                                               5 Level   Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer         (1)                (2)
                                                                         Start     Compl    Initials   Initials       Course             CDC
                                                                                    ete
     3.14.6. Ammunition types, to include uses                                                                           -                 -
     and packaging
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
     11W3-3-5-1, 11W3-3-4-11, 11A13-10-7;
     FM 3-23.35
     3.14.7. Destruction                                                                                                 -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
     11W3-3-5-1, 11W3-3-4-11, FM 3-23.35;
     TM 750-244-7; DoD 4160-21-M-1
     3.14.8. Loading, reloading, and clearing                                                                            -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
     11W3-3-5-1, 11W3-3-4-11; FM 3-23.35
     3.14.9. Disassembly and assembly                                                                                    -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
     11W3-3-5-1, 11W3-3-5-4, 11W3-3-4-11,
     11W3-3-4-12; FM 3-23.35
     3.14.10. Function check                                                                                             -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
     11W3-3-5-1, 11W3-3-5-4, 11W3-3-4-11,
     11W3-3-4-12; FM 3-23.35
     3.14.11. Operator maintenance                                                                                       -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
     11W3-3-5-1, 11W3-3-4-11; FM 3-23.35
     3.14.12. Immediate and remedial action                                                                              -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
     11W3-3-5-1, 11W3-3-5-4, 11W3-3-4-11,
     11W3-3-4-12; FM 3-23.35
     3.15. Instruct marksmanship fundamentals                                                                            -                 -
     3.15.1. Sight alignment, sight picture, flash                                                                       -                 -
     sight picture
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-23.35
     3.15.2. Use of sighting and aiming training                                                                         -                 -
     aids
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-23.35
     3.15.3. Sight adjustments                                                                                           -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
     11W3-3-5-1, 11W3-3-4-11; FM 3-23.35
     3.15.4. Breath control                                                                                              -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-23.35
     3.15.5. Trigger control                                                                                             -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-23.35
     3.15.6. Firing positions                                                                                            -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-23.35
     3.15.7. Drawing from holster                                                                                        -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-23.35
     3.15.8. Night firing techniques                                                                                     -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-23.35
   * 3.16. Install and remove dye marking                                                                               1a                 -
     cartridge kit
     TR: Manufacturer Instructions
     4. M203 GRENADE LAUNCHER                                                                                            -                 -


                                                                  C-12
                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Task                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                  Provided (See Note)

Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        A          B         C            D            A                 B
                                                                                                                   3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level
                                                               5 Level   Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer         (1)                (2)
                                                                         Start     Compl    Initials   Initials       Course             CDC
                                                                                    ete
   * 4.1. Explain characteristics                                X                                                       B                 B
     TR: T.O.s 11W3-9-4-1, 11W3-9-4-2; FM
     3-22.31
   * 4.2. Distinguish nomenclature                               X                                                       B                 B
     TR: T.O.s 11W3-9-4-1, 11W3-9-4-2; FM
     3-22.31
   * 4.3. Explain operation and functions                        X                                                       B                 B
     TR: T.O.s , 11W3-9-4-1, 11W3-9-4-2; FM
     3-22.31
     4.4. Malfunctions and stoppages                                                                                     -                 -
   * 4.4.1. Identify malfunctions and stoppages                  X                                                       B                 B
     TR: T.O.s , 11W3-9-4-1, 11W3-9-4-2; FM
     3-22.31
   * 4.4.2. Correct malfunctions and clear                       X                                                       b                 -
     stoppages
     TR: T.O.s , 11W3-9-4-1, 11W3-9-4-2; FM
     3-22.31
   * 4.5. Identify ammunition types and uses                     X                                                       B                 B
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vols. 1 & 2; T.O.s
     11W3-9-4-1, 11A8-2-1; FM 3-22.31
     4.6. Sub-depot maintenance                                                                                          -                 -
   * 4.6.1. Perform detailed disassembly and                     X                                                      2b                 -
     assembly
     TR: T.O. 11W3-9-4-2
   * 4.6.2. Inspect for serviceability (using                    X                                                      2b                 b
     gauges when applicable)
     TR: T.O. 11W3-9-4-2
   * 4.6.3. Perform preventive maintenance                       X                                                      3b                 b
     TR: T.O. 11W3-9-4-2
   * 4.6.4. Perform function check                               X                                                      2b                 -
     TR: T.O. 11W3-9-4-2
     4.6.5. Perform function fire                                                                                        -                 -
     TR: T.O. 11W3-9-4-2
   * 4.6.6. Install/remove grenade launcher                                                                             2b                 -
     TR: T.O. 11W3-9-4-2
   * 4.7. Perform loading, reloading, and                        X                                                      3b                 -
     clearing
     TR: AFMAN 31-229; T.O. 11W3-9-4-1;
     FM 3-22.31
   * 4.8. Perform immediate and remedial                         X                                                      3b                 -
     action
     TR: T.O.s 11W3-9-4-1, 11W3-9-4-2; FM
     3-22.31
   * 4.9. Perform coaching techniques                            X                                                      2b                 -
     TR: FM 3-22.31; AFMAN 36-2227,
     Vol 1
   * 4.10. Perform target analysis                               X                                                      2b                 -
     TR: FM 3-22.31; AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1
   * 4.11. Perform marksmanship fundamentals                     X                                                      2b                 b
     TR: FM 3-22.31



                                                                  C-13
                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Task                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                  Provided (See Note)

Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        A          B         C            D            A                 B
                                                                                                                   3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level
                                                               5 Level   Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer         (1)                (2)
                                                                         Start     Compl    Initials   Initials       Course             CDC
                                                                                    ete
   * 4.12. Perform sight adjustments and zero                    X                                                      2b                 b
     TR: T.O. 11W3-9-4-1, 11W3-9-4-2; FM
     3-22.31
     4.13. Fire grenade launcher for                                                                                     -                 -
     qualification
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-
     22.31
     4.14. Instruct mechanical training                                                                                  -                 -
     4.14.1. Weapons safety                                                                                              -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O. 11W3-
     9-4-1; FM 3-22.31
     4.14.2. Nomenclature                                                                                                -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
     11W3-9-4-1, 11W3-9-4-2; FM 3-22.31
     4.14.3. Characteristics                                                                                             -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s ,
     11W3-9-4-1, 11W3-9-4-2; FM 3-22.31
     4.14.4. Operations and functions                                                                                    -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O. 11W3-
     9-4-1, 11E3-9-4-2; FM 3-22.31
     4.14.5. Malfunctions and stoppages                                                                                  -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
     11W3-9-4-1, 11W3-9-4-2; FM 3-22.31
     4.14.6. Ammunition types, to include uses                                                                           -                 -
     and packaging
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
     11W3-9-4-1, 11A8-2-1; FM 3-22.31
     4.14.7. Destruction                                                                                                 -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O. 11W3-
     9-4-1; FM 3-22.31; DoD 4160-21-M-1;
     TM 750-244-7
     4.14.8. Loading, reloading and clearing                                                                             -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; AFMAN
     31-229; T.O. 11W3-9-4-1; FM 3-22.31
     4.14.9. Disassembly and assembly                                                                                    -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
     11W3-9-4-1, 11W3-9-4-2; FM 3-22.31
     4.14.10. Function check                                                                                             -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O. 11W3-
     9-4-1, 11W3-9-4-2; FM 3-22.31
     4.14.11. Operator maintenance                                                                                       -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O. 11W3-
     9-4-1, 11W3-9-4-2; FM 3-22.31
     4.14.12. Immediate and remedial action                                                                              -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O. 11W3-
     9-4-1, 11W3-9-4-2; FM 3-22.31
     4.15. Instruct marksmanship fundamentals                                                                            -                 -
   * 4.15.1. Sight alignment/picture                                                                                    2b                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-22.31




                                                                  C-14
                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Task                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                  Provided (See Note)

Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        A          B         C            D            A                 B
                                                                                                                   3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level
                                                               5 Level   Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer         (1)                (2)
                                                                         Start     Compl    Initials   Initials       Course             CDC
                                                                                    ete
   * 4.15.2. Range estimation                                                                                           2b                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227 Vol 1; T.O. 11W3-
     9-4-1; FM 3-22.31
   * 4.15.3. Sight adjustments                                                                                          2b                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O. 11W3-
     9-4-1; FM 3-22.31
   * 4.15.4. Breath control                                                                                             2b                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-22.31
   * 4.15.5. Trigger control                                                                                            2b                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-22.31
   * 4.15.6. Firing positions                                                                                           2b                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O. 11W3-
     9-4-1; FM 3-22.31
     5. SHOTGUN                                                                                                          -                 -
     5.1. Explain characteristics                                                                                        -                 B
     TR: T.O.s 11W3-6-2-1, 11W3-6-1-154,
     11W3-6-1-171; TM 9-1005-388-13&P
     5.2. Distinguish nomenclature                                                                                       -                 B
     TR: T.O.s 11W3-6-2-1, 11W3-6-1-154,
     11W3-6-1-171; TM 9-1005-388-13&P
     5.3. Explain operations and functions                                                                               -                 B
     TR: T.O.s 11W3-6-2-1, 11W3-6-1-154,
     11W3-6-1-171; TM 9-1005-388-13&P
     5.4. Malfunctions and stoppages                                                                                     -                 -
     5.4.1. Identify malfunctions and stoppages                                                                          -                 -
     TR: T.O.s 11W3-6-2-1, 11W3-6-1-154,
     11W3-6-1-171; TM 9-1005-388-13&P
     5.4.2. Correct malfunctions and clear                                                                               -                 -
     stoppages
     TR: T.O.s 11W3-6-2-1, 11W3-6-1-154,
     11W3-6-1-171; TM 9-1005-388-13&P
     5.5. Identify ammunition types and uses                                                                             -                 -
     TR: T.O. 11A13-10-7
     5.6. Sup-depot maintenance                                                                                          -                 -
     5.6.1. Perform detailed disassembly and                                                                             -                 -
     assembly
     TR: T.O.s 11W3-6-2-1, 11W3-6-1-154,
     11W3-6-1-171; TM 9-1005-388-13&P
     5.6.2. Inspect for serviceability using                                                                             -                 -
     gauges
     TR: T.O.s 11W3-6-2-1, 11W3-6-1-154,
     11W3-6-1-171; TM 9-1005-388-13&P
     5.6.3. Perform preventive maintenance                                                                               -                 -
     TR: T.O.s 11W3-6-2-1, 11W3-6-1-154,
     11W3-6-1-171; TM 9-1005-388-13&P
     5.6.4. Perform function check                                                                                       -                 -
     TR: T.O.s 11W3-6-2-1, 11W3-6-1-154,
     11W3-6-1-171; TM 9-1005-388-13&P
     5.6.5. Perform function fire                                                                                        -                 -
     TR: T.O.s 11W3-6-2-1, 11W3-6-1-154,
     11W3-6-1-171; TM 9-1005-388-13&P


                                                                  C-15
                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Task                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                  Provided (See Note)

Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        A          B         C            D            A                 B
                                                                                                                   3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level
                                                               5 Level   Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer         (1)                (2)
                                                                         Start     Compl    Initials   Initials       Course             CDC
                                                                                    ete
                5.7. Perform loading, reloading and                                                                      -                 -
                clearing
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-6-2-1, 11W3-6-1-154,
                11W3-6-1-171; TM 9-1005-388-13&P
                5.8. Perform immediate and remedial                                                                      -                 -
                action
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-6-2-1, 11W3-6-1-154,
                11W3-6-1-171; TM 9-1005-388-13&P
                5.9. Perform coaching techniques                                                                         -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1
                5.10. Perform target analysis                                                                            -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1
                5.11. Perform marksmanship fundamentals                                                                  -                 -
                TR: T.O. 11W3-5-5-81
                5.12. Fire shotgun course for qualification                                                              -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1
                5.13. Instruct mechanical training                                                                       -                 -
                5.13.1. Weapons safety                                                                                   -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
                11W3-6-2-1, 11W3-6-1-154, 11W3-6-1-
                171; TM 9-1005-388-13&P
                5.13.2. Nomenclature                                                                                     -                 -
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-6-2-1, 11W3-6-1-154,
                11W3-6-1-171; TM 9-1005-388-13&P
                5.13.3. Characteristics                                                                                  -                 -
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-6-2-1, 11W3-6-1-154,
                11W3-6-1-171; TM 9-1005-388-13&P
                5.13.4. Operations and functions                                                                         -                 -
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-6-2-1, 11W3-6-1-154,
                11W3-6-1-171; TM 9-1005-388-13&P
                5.13.5. Malfunctions and stoppages                                                                       -                 -
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-6-2-1, 11W3-6-1-154,
                11W3-6-1-171; TM 9-1005-388-13&P
                5.13.6. Ammunition types, to include uses                                                                -                 -
                and packaging
                TR: T.O. 11A13-10-7
                5.13.7. Destruction                                                                                      -                 -
                TR: TM 750-244-7; DoD 4160-21-M-1
                5.13.8. Loading, reloading and clearing                                                                  -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 31-229, T.O.s 11W3-6-2-1,
                11W3-6-1-154, 11W3-6-1-171; TM 9-
                1005-388-13&P
                5.13.9. Disassembly and assembly                                                                         -                 -
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-6-2-1, 11W3-6-1-154,
                11W3-6-1-171; TM 9-1005-388-13&P
                5.13.10. Function check                                                                                  -                 -
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-6-2-1, 11W3-6-1-154,
                11W3-6-1-171; TM 9-1005-388-13&P
                5.13.11. Operator maintenance                                                                            -                 -
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-6-2-1, 11W3-6-1-154,
                11W3-6-1-171; TM 9-1005-388-13&P


                                                                  C-16
                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Task                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                  Provided (See Note)

Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        A          B         C            D            A                 B
                                                                                                                   3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level
                                                               5 Level   Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer         (1)                (2)
                                                                         Start     Compl    Initials   Initials       Course             CDC
                                                                                    ete
                5.13.12. Immediate and remedial action                                                                   -                 -
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-6-2-1, 11W3-6-1-154,
                11W3-6-1-171; TM 9-1005-388-13&P
                5.14. Instruct marksmanship fundamentals                                                                 -                 -
                5.14.1. Pointing techniques                                                                              -                 -
                TR: T.O. 11W3-5-5-81
                5.14.2. Breath control                                                                                   -                 -
                TR: T.O. 11W3-5-5-81
                5.14.3. Trigger control                                                                                  -                 -
                TR: T.O. 11W3-5-5-81
                5.14.4. Firing positions                                                                                 -                 -
                TR: T.O. 11W3-5-5-81
                5.14.5. Follow through                                                                                   -                 -
                TR: T.O. 11W3-5-5-81
                6. M240B MACHINE GUN                                                                                     -                 -
   *            6.1. Explain characteristics                     X                                                       B                 B
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 2; T.O.s
                11W2-6-5-1, 11W2-6-5-2; FM 3-22.68
   *            6.2. Distinguish nomenclature                    X                                                       B                 B
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 2; T.O.s
                11W2-6-5-1, 11W2-6-5-2; FM 3-22.68
   *            6.3. Explain operation and functions             X                                                       B                 B
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 2; T.O.s
                11W2-6-5-1, 11W2-6-5-2; FM 3-22.68
                6.4. Malfunctions and stoppages                                                                          -                 -
   *            6.4.1. Identify malfunctions and stoppages       X                                                       B                 B
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 2; T.O.s
                11W2-6-5-1, 11W2-6-5-2; FM 3-22.68
   *            6.4.2. Correct malfunctions and clear            X                                                       b                 -
                stoppages
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 2; T.O.s
                11W2-6-5-1, 11W2-6-5-2; FM 3-22.68
   *            6.5. Identify ammunition types and uses          X                                                       B                 B
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 2; T.O.s
                11W2-6-5-1, 11A13-10-7; FM 3-22.6
                6.6. Sub-depot maintenance                                                                               -                 -
   *            6.6.1. Perform detailed disassembly and          X                                                      2b                 -
                assembly
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 2; T.O.s
                11W2-6-5-1, 11W2-6-5-2
   *            6.6.2. Inspect for serviceability (using         X                                                      2b                 b
                gauges when applicable)
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 2; T.O.s
                11W2-6-5-1, 11W2-6-5-2; TB 9-1000-247-
                34
   *            6.6.3. Perform preventive maintenance            X                                                      3b                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 2; T.O.s
                11W2-6-5-1, 11W2-6-5-2; FM 3-22.6
   *            6.6.4. Perform function check                    X                                                      2b                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 2; T.O.s
                11W2-6-5-1, 11W2-6-5-2; FM 3-22.6


                                                                  C-17
                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Task                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                  Provided (See Note)

Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        A          B         C            D            A                 B
                                                                                                                   3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level
                                                               5 Level   Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer         (1)                (2)
                                                                         Start     Compl    Initials   Initials       Course             CDC
                                                                                    ete
                6.6.5. Perform function fire                                                                             -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 2; T.O. 11W2-
                6-5-2; FM 3-22.6
                6.7. Sub-depot maintenance on weapon                                                                     -                 -
                mounts
                TR: T.O. 11W2-8-1-322
                6.8. Perform sub-depot maintenance on                                                                    -                 -
                spare barrel kits
                TR: T.O.s 11W2-6-5-1, 11W2-6-5-2
                6.9. Mount weapon                                                                                        -                 -
   *            6.9.1. Tripod                                    X                                                      2b                 -
                TR: T.O.s 11W2-6-5-1, 11W2-8-1-322,
                11W2-6-5-2; FM 3-22.68
   *            6.9.2. Vehicle mounts                                                                                   2b                 -
                TR: T.O.s 11W2-8-1-322, 11W2-6-5-1,
                11W2-6-5-2; FM 3-22.68
                6.10. Mate barrels to receivers                                                                          -                 -
                TR: T.O.s 11W2-6-5-1, 11W2-6-5-2
   *            6.11. Adjust traversing and elevating            X                                                      2b                 -
                mechanism
                TR: T.O. 11W2-6-5-1; FM 3-22.68
   *            6.12. Prepare range cards                        X                                                      2b                 b
                TR: FM 3-22.68
   *            6.13. Perform loading, reloading, and            X                                                      3b                 -
                clearing
                TR: AFMAN 31-229; T.O. 11W2-6-5-1
   *            6.14. Perform immediate and remedial             X                                                      3b                 -
                action
                TR: T.O.s 11W2-6-5-1, 11W2-6-5-2; FM
                3-22.68
   *            6.15. Perform coaching techniques                X                                                      2b                 -
                TR: FM 3-22.68
   *            6.16. Perform target analysis                    X                                                      2b                 -
                TR: FM 3-22.68
   *            6.17. Perform marksmanship fundamentals          X                                                      2b                 b
                TR: FM 3-22.68
   *            6.18. Perform sight adjustments and zero         X                                                      2b                 b
                TR: FM 3-22.68; T.O.s 11W2-6-5-1,
                11W2-6-5-2
                6.19. Install and remove blank firing                                                                    -                 -
                device
                TR: T.O. 11W2-6-5-1; FM 3-22.68
                6.20. Fire machine gun for qualification                                                                 -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 2
   *            6.21. Fire machine gun for proficiency                                                                  2b                 -
                TR: AFI 36-2226
   *            6.22. Fire wearing individual body armor                                                                1a                 -
                TR: FM 3-22.68
                6.23. Fire using gas mask                                                                                -                 -
                TR: FM 3-22.68
                6.24. Instruct mechanical training                                                                       -                 -


                                                                  C-18
                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Task                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                  Provided (See Note)

Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        A          B         C            D            A                 B
                                                                                                                   3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level
                                                               5 Level   Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer         (1)                (2)
                                                                         Start     Compl    Initials   Initials       Course             CDC
                                                                                    ete
                6.24.1. Weapons safety                                                                                   -                 -
                TR: T.O.s 11W2-6-5-1, 11W2-6-5-2; FM
                3-22.68
                6.24.2. Nomenclature                                                                                     -                 -
                TR: T.O.s 11W2-6-5-1, 11W2-6-5-2; FM
                3-22.68
                6.24.3. Characteristics                                                                                  -                 -
                TR: T.O.s 11W2-6-5-1, 11W2-6-5-2; FM
                3-22.68
                6.24.4. Operations and functions                                                                         -                 -
                TR: T.O.s 11W2-6-5-1, 11W2-6-5-2; FM
                3-22.68
                6.24.5. Malfunctions and stoppages                                                                       -                 -
                TR: T.O.s 11W2-6-5-1, 11W2-6-5-2; FM
                3-22.68
                6.24.6. Ammunition types, to include uses                                                                -                 -
                and packaging
                TR: T.O.s 11W2-6-5-1, 11A13-10-7; FM
                3-22.68
                6.24.7. Destruction                                                                                      -                 -
                TR: T.O.s 11W2-6-5-1, 11W2-6-5-2; TM
                750-244-7; DoD 4160-21-M-1
                6.24.8. Loading, reloading and clearing                                                                  -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 31-229; T.O. 11W2-6-5-1;
                FM 3-22.68
                6.24.9. Disassembly and assembly                                                                         -                 -
                TR: T.O.s 11W2-6-5-1, 11W2-6-5-2; FM
                3-22.68
                6.24.10. Function check                                                                                  -                 -
                TR: T.O.s 11W2-6-5-1, 11W2-6-5-2; FM
                3-22.68
                6.24.11. Operator maintenance                                                                            -                 -
                TR: T.O.s 11W2-6-5-1, 11W2-6-5-2; FM
                3-22.68
                6.24.12. Immediate action                                                                                -                 -
                TR: T.O.s 11W2-6-5-1, 11W2-6-5-2; FM
                3-22.68
                6.24.13. Remedial action                                                                                 -                 -
                TR: T.O.s 11W2-6-5-1, 11W2-6-5-2; FM
                3-22.68
                6.24.14. Mounts and associated equipment                                                                 -                 -
                TR: T.O.s 11W2-6-5-1, 11W2-8-1-322;
                FM 3-22.68
                6.25. Instruct marksmanship fundamentals                                                                 -                 -
                6.25.1. Sight alignment/picture                                                                          -                 -
                TR: FM 3-22.68
                6.25.1.1. Placement of aiming point                                                                      -                 -
                TR: FM 3-22.68




                                                                  C-19
                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Task                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                  Provided (See Note)

Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        A          B         C            D            A                 B
                                                                                                                   3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level
                                                               5 Level   Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer         (1)                (2)
                                                                         Start     Compl    Initials   Initials       Course             CDC
                                                                                    ete
                6.25.1.2. Sight adjustments/adjusted                                                                     -                 -
                aiming point
                TR: T.O.s 11W2-6-5-1, 11W2-6-5-2; FM
                3-22.68
                6.25.1.3. T & E adjustments                                                                              -                 -
                TR: T.O. 11W2-6-5-1; FM 3-22.68
                6.25.1.4. Zero                                                                                           -                 -
                TR: 11W2-6-5-1; 11W2-6-5-2; FM 3-
                22.68
                6.25.2. Breath control                                                                                   -                 -
                TR: FM 3-22.68
                6.25.3. Trigger control/manipulation                                                                     -                 -
                TR: FM 3-22.68
                6.25.4. Firing positions                                                                                 -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 2; FM 3-22.68
                6.25.5. Crew training                                                                                    -                 -
                TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 2; FM 3-22.68
                6.25.6. Techniques of fire and employment                                                                -                 -
                6.25.6.1. Characteristics of fire                                                                        -                 -
                TR: FM 3-22.68
                6.25.6.2. Classes of fire                                                                                -                 -
                TR: FM 3-22.68
                6.25.6.3. Range determination and lateral                                                                -                 -
                distance measurement
                TR: FM 3-22.68
                6.25.6.4. Types of targets to be engaged                                                                 -                 -
                TR: FM 3-22.68
                6.25.6.5. Principles of fire                                                                             -                 -
                TR: FM 3-22.68
                6.25.6.6. Limited visibility firing                                                                      -                 -
                TR: FM 3-22.68
                6.25.6.7. Firing from vehicle                                                                            -                 -
                TR: FM 3-22.68
                6.25.6.8. Fire using range card                                                                          -                 -
                TR: FM 3-22.68
                7. M249 AUTOMATIC RIFLE                                                                                  -                 -
   *            7.1. Explain characteristics                     X                                                       B                 B
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-5-5-51, 11W3-5-5-52;
                FM 3-22.68
   *            7.2. Distinguish nomenclature                    X                                                       B                 B
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-5-5-51, 11W3-5-5-52;
                FM 3-22.68
   *            7.3. Explain operation and functions             X                                                       B                 B
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-5-5-51, 11W3-5-5-52;
                FM 3-22.68
                7.4. Malfunctions and stoppages                                                                          -                 -
   *            7.4.1. Identify malfunctions and stoppages       X                                                       B                 B
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-5-5-51, 11W3-5-5-52;
                FM 3-22.68



                                                                  C-20
                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Task                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                  Provided (See Note)

Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        A          B         C            D            A                 B
                                                                                                                   3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level
                                                               5 Level   Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer         (1)                (2)
                                                                         Start     Compl    Initials   Initials       Course             CDC
                                                                                    ete
   * 7.4.2. Correct malfunctions and clear                       X                                                       b                 -
     stoppages
     TR: T.O.s 11W3-5-5-51, 11W3-5-5-52;
     FM 3-22.68
   * 7.5. Identify ammunition types and uses                     X                                                       B                 B
     TR: AFMAN 31-229; T.O.s 11W3-5-5-51,
     11A13-10-7; FM 3-22.68
     7.6. Destruction                                                                                                    -                 -
     TR: 11W3-5-5-51, TM 750-244-7; DoD
     4160-21-M-1
     7.7. Sub-depot maintenance                                                                                          -                 -
   * 7.7.1. Perform detailed disassembly and                     X                                                      2b                 -
     assembly using tools
     TR: T.O. 11W3-5-5-52
   * 7.7.2. Inspect for serviceability using                     X                                                      2b                 b
     gauges
     TR: T.O. 11W3-5-5-52
   * 7.7.3. Perform preventive maintenance                       X                                                      3b                 b
     TR: T.O.s 11W3-5-5-51, 11W3-5-5-52;
     FM 3-22.68
   * 7.7.4. Perform function check                               X                                                      2b                 -
     TR: T.O.s 11W3-5-5-51, 11W3-5-5-52;
     FM 3-22.68
     7.7.5. Perform function fire                                                                                        -                 -
     TR: 11W3-5-5-52
   * 7.8. Perform loading, reloading, and                        X                                                      3b                 -
     clearing
     TR: AFMAN 31-229; T.O. 11W3-5-5-51;
     FM 3-22.68
   * 7.9. Perform immediate and remedial                         X                                                      3b                 -
     action
     TR: T.O.s 11W3-5-5-51, 11W3-5-5-52;
     FM 3-22.68
   * 7.10. Perform coaching techniques                                                                                  2b                 -
     TR: FM 3-22.68; AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1
   * 7.11. Perform target analysis                               X                                                      2b                 -
     TR: FM 3-22.68; AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1
   * 7.12. Perform marksmanship fundamentals                     X                                                      2b                 b
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-22.68
   * 7.13. Perform sight adjustments and zero                    X                                                      2b                 b
     TR: T.O.s 11W3-5-5-51, 11W3-5-5-52;
     FM 3-22.68
   * 7.14. Install and remove blank firing                                                                              2b                 -
     devices and dye marking kit
     TR: T.O. 11W3-5-5-51; FM 3-22.68
     7.15. Fire M249 for qualification                                                                                   -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1
   * 7.16. Fire M249 for proficiency                                                                                    2b                 -
     TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227, Vol
     1; AFCAT 21-209, Vol 1



                                                                  C-21
                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Task                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                  Provided (See Note)

Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        A          B         C            D            A                 B
                                                                                                                   3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level
                                                               5 Level   Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer         (1)                (2)
                                                                         Start     Compl    Initials   Initials       Course             CDC
                                                                                    ete
   * 7.17. Fire wearing individual body armor                                                                           1a                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-22.68
     7.18. Instruct mechanical training                                                                                  -                 -
     7.18.1. Weapons safety                                                                                              -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O. 11W3-
     5-5-51; FM 3-22.68
     7.18.2. Nomenclature                                                                                                -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
     11W3-5-5-51, 11W3-5-5-52; FM 3-22.68
     7.18.3. Characteristics                                                                                             -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
     11W3-5-5-51, 11W3-5-5-52; FM 3-22.68
     7.18.4. Operations and functions                                                                                    -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
     11W3-5-5-51, 11W3-5-5-52; FM 3-22.68
     7.18.5. Malfunctions and stoppages                                                                                  -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
     11W3-5-5-51, 11W3-5-5-52; FM 3-22.68
     7.18.6. Ammunition types, to include uses                                                                           -                 -
     and packaging
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O. 11W3-
     5-5-51, 11A13-10-7; FM 3-22.68
     7.18.7. Destruction                                                                                                 -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O. 11W3-
     5-5-51; TM 750-244-7; FM 3-22.68; DoD
     4160-21-M-1
     7.18.8. Loading, reloading and clearing                                                                             -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; AFMAN
     31-229; T.O. 11W3-5-5-51; FM 3-22.68
     7.18.9. Disassembly and assembly                                                                                    -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
     11W3-5-5-51, 11W3-5-5-52; FM 3-22.68
     7.18.10. Function check                                                                                             -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
     11W3-5-5-51, 11W3-5-5-52; FM 3-22.68
     7.18.11. Operator maintenance                                                                                       -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O. 11W3-
     5-5-51; FM 3-22.68
     7.18.12. Immediate and remedial action                                                                              -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O.s
     11W3-5-5-51, 11W3-5-5-52; FM 3-22.68
     7.19. Instruct marksmanship fundamentals                                                                            -                 -
     7.19.1. Sight alignment/picture                                                                                     -                 -
     7.19.1.1. Placement of aiming point                                                                                 -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-22.68
     7.19. 1.2. Sight adjustments/adjusted                                                                               -                 -
     aiming point
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O. 11W3-
     5-5-51, 11W3-5-5-52; FM 3-22.68




                                                                  C-22
                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Task                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                  Provided (See Note)

Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        A          B         C            D            A                 B
                                                                                                                   3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level
                                                               5 Level   Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer         (1)                (2)
                                                                         Start     Compl    Initials   Initials       Course             CDC
                                                                                    ete
     7.19.1.3. Zero                                                                                                      -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; T.O. 11W3-
     5-5-51; FM 3-22.68
     7.19.2. Breath control                                                                                              -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-22.68
     7.19.3. Trigger control/manipulation                                                                                -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-22.68
     7.19.4. Firing positions                                                                                            -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-22.68
     7.19.5. Techniques of fire and employment                                                                           -                 -
     7.19.5.1. Characteristics of fire                                                                                   -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-22.68
     7.19.5.2. Classes of fire                                                                                           -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-22.68
     7.19.5.3. Range determination and lateral                                                                           -                 -
     distance measurement
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-22.68
     7.19.5.4. Types of targets to be engaged                                                                            -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-22.68
     7.19.5.5. Principles of fire                                                                                        -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-22.68
     7.19.5.6. Limited visibility fire                                                                                   -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-22.68
     7.19.5.7. Fire using range card                                                                                     -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-22.68
     7.19.5.8. Fire using gas mask                                                                                       -                 -
     TR: AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1; FM 3-22.68
     8. M24, 7.62 Sniper Weapon System Rifle                                                                             -                 -
     TR: T.O. 11W3-5-4-10-1
     9. M107, Cal.50 Special Application                                                                                 -                 -
     Sniper Rifle
     TR: T.O.s 11W2-5-7-1, 11W2-5-7-2,
     11W3-5-1-111
     10. SIGHTING, TARGETING,                                                                                            -                 -
     ACQUISITION OF NIGHT
     OBSERVATION (STANO)
     10.1. Combat optics                                                                                                 -                 -
     10.1.1. Instruct                                                                                                    -                 -
     TR: T.O.s 11W3-5-5-121, 11B57-3-1,
     12S10-2PVS4-1; FM 3-22.9; FM 3-22.68
   * 10.1.2. Operate                                             X                                                      2b                 -
     TR: T.O.s 11W3-5-5-121, 11B57-3-1,
     12S10-2PVS4-1; FM 3-22.9; FM 3-22.68
   * 10.1.3. Perform operator maintenance                        X                                                      2b                 b
     TR: T.O.s 11W3-5-5-121, 11B57-3-1,
     12S10-2PVS4-1; FM 3-22.9; FM 3-22.68
     10.2. Night vision devices                                                                                          -                 -
     10.2.1. Instruct                                                                                                    -                 -
     TR: T.O.s 12S10-2PVS14-1, 12S10-
     2PVS4-1, 12S10-2PVS7-11



                                                                  C-23
                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Task                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                  Provided (See Note)

Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        A          B         C            D            A                 B
                                                                                                                   3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level
                                                               5 Level   Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer         (1)                (2)
                                                                         Start     Compl    Initials   Initials       Course             CDC
                                                                                    ete
   * 10.2.2. Operate                                             X                                                      2b                 b
     TR: T.O.s 12S10-2PVS14-1, 12S10-
     2PVS4-1, 12S10-2PVS7-11
   * 10.2.3. Perform operator maintenance                        X                                                      2b                 b
     TR: T.O.s 12S10-2PVS14-1, 12S10-
     2PVS4-1, 12S10-2PVS7-11
     10.3. Designator/Illuminator                                                                                        -                 -
     10.3.1. Instruct                                                                                                    -                 -
     TR: TM 11-5855-301-12&9, TM 11-
     5855-214-10, TM 9-5855-1915-13&P
   * 10.3.2. Operate                                             X                                                      2b                 b
     TR: TMs 11-5855-297-12 & P, 11-585-
     301-12 & P
   * 10.3.3. Perform operator maintenance                        X                                                      2b                 b
     TR: TMs 11-5855-297-12 & P, 11-585-
     301-12 & P
     11. PRINCIPLES AND TECHNIQUES                                                                                       -                 -
     OF INSTRUCTION
     11.1. Principles of Instructional Systems                                                                           -                 -
     Development
     TR: AFI 36-2201; AFMAN 36-2234;
     AFMAN 36-2236
     11.2. Use lesson plans                                                                                              -                 -
     11.2.1. Develop objectives and teaching                                                                             -                 -
     steps
     TR: AFI 36-2201; AFMAN 36-2234;
     AFMAN 36-2236
     11.2.2. Develop lesson plans                                                                                        -                 -
     TR: AFI 36-2201; AFMAN 36-2234;
     AFMAN 36-2236
   * 11.2.3. Present lecture lesson                              X                                                      2b                 -
     TR: AFI 36-2201; AFMAN 36-2234;
     AFMAN 36-2236
   * 11.2.4. Present a                                           X                                                      2b                 -
     demonstration/performance lesson
     TR: AFI 36-2201; AFMAN 36-2234;
     AFMAN 36-2236
   * 11.3. Demonstrate questioning techniques                    X                                                      2b                 -
     TR: AFI 36-2201; AFMAN 36-2234;
     AFMAN 36-2236
     11.4. Training aids/equipment                                                                                       -                 -
   * 11.4.1. Develop                                             X                                                      2b                 b
     TR: AFI 36-2201; AFMAN 36-2234;
     AFMAN 36-2236
   * 11.4.2. Use                                                 X                                                      2b                 b
     TR: AFI 36-2201; AFMAN 36-2234;
     AFMAN 36-2236
     11.4.3. Evaluate                                                                                                    -                 -
     TR: AFI 36-2201; AFMAN 36-2234;
     AFMAN 36-2236



                                                                  C-24
                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Task                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                  Provided (See Note)

Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        A          B         C            D            A                 B
                                                                                                                   3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level
                                                               5 Level   Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer         (1)                (2)
                                                                         Start     Compl    Initials   Initials       Course             CDC
                                                                                    ete
                11.4.4. Revise                                                                                           -                 -
                TR: AFI 36-2201; AFMAN 36-2234;
                AFMAN 36-2236
                11.5. Test items                                                                                         -                 -
                11.5.1. Administer                                                                                       -                 B
                TR: AFI 36-2201; AFMAN 36-2234;
                AFMAN 36-2236
                11.5.2. Evaluate                                                                                         -                 -
                TR: AFI 36-2201; AFMAN 36-2234;
                AFMAN 36-2236
                12. GROUND AND EXPLOSIVE                                                                                 -                 -
                SAFETY
                TR: AFI 91-202; AFMAN 91-201; AFI
                91-301; AFI 91-302
                13. RESOURCE SECURITY                                                                                    -                 -
                13.1. Determine resource security                                                                        -                 -
                requirements
   *            13.1.1. Weapons                                                                                          A                 B
                TR: AFI 31-101; AFMAN 31-229; DoD
                5200.76-M
   *            13.1.2. Munitions                                                                                        A                 B
                TR: AFI 31-209; DoD 5200.76-M
   *            13.1.3. Facilities and equipment                                                                         A                 B
                TR: AFI 31-101; DoD 5200.76-M
   *            13.2. Identify reporting procedures for loss                                                             A                 -
                or recovery of arms or munitions
                TR: AFI 31-101
                14. PERFORM TECHNICAL COMBAT                                                                             -                 -
                ARMS FUNCTIONS
                14.1. Advise on weapons placement and                                                                    -                 -
                employment capabilities
                TR: T.O.s 11W3-5-5-81, 11W3-3-6-1,
                11W3-5-6-1, 11W2-6-6-1; FM 3-22.68
                14.2. Interpret Combat Arms policies,                                                                    -                 -
                directives, and regulations
                TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2227, Vols
                1&2
                14.3. Review appropriate formal training                                                                 -                 -
                standards and recommend necessary
                revisions
                TR: AFMAN 3-2234; AFMAN 36-2236;
                AFMAN 36-2227, Vols 1 & 2
                14.4. Analyze proposed curricula,                                                                        -                 -
                including materials and outlines for new
                training courses and supplemental
                instructional literature
                TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-2236;
                AFMAN 36-2227, Vols 1 & 2
                15. AF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND                                                                           -                 -
                HEALTH PROGRAM



                                                                  C-25
                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Task                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                  Provided (See Note)

Wartime Tasks
                1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        A          B         C            D            A                 B
                                                                                                                   3 Skill Level     5 Skill Level
                                                               5 Level   Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer         (1)                (2)
                                                                         Start     Compl    Initials   Initials       Course             CDC
                                                                                    ete
   * 15.1. Identify hazards of AFSC 3P0X1B                                                                               B                 B
     TR: AFI 91-301; AFOSH Standards;
     OSHA Standards
   * 15.2. Explain AFOSH Standards                                                                                       B                 B
     TR: AFI 91-301; AFOSH Standards;
     OSHA Standards
     15.3. Environment protection/hazardous                                                                              -                 -
     waste management
   * 15.3.1. Explain requirements                                                                                        B                 B
     TR: AFI 132-series and Installation
     Restoration Program Management
     Guidance Handbook
   * 15.3.2. Explain manage work center                                                                                  B                 B
     program
     TR: AFI 132-series and Installation
     Restoration Program Management
     Guidance Handbook
   * 15.4. Identify range facility safety                                                                                B                 B
     violations
     TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 91-201;
     AFMAN 36-2227, Vols 1 & 2; ETL 06-11;
     AFOSH Standards; OSHA Standards;
     MIL-HDBK 1027-3B




                                                                  C-26
