DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                             CFETP 2A7X5
Headquarters US Air Force                                                 Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                               1 August 2014




                            AFSC 2A7X5

       LOW OBSERVABLE AIRCRAFT
             STRUCTURAL
            MAINTENANCE




       CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
         AND TRAINING PLAN
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                                                                                                             CFETP 2A7X5, 01 Aug 2014

              CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
      LOW OBSERVABLE AIRCRAFT STRUCTURAL MAINTENANCE SPECIALTY
                             AFSC 2A7X5
                         TABLE OF CONTENTS
Title                                                        Page

PART I
Preface ................................................................................................................................................ 1
Abbreviations/Terms Explained.......................................................................................................2

Section A – General Information ...................................................................................................... 5
     Purpose of the CFETP
     Use of the CFETP
     Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B – Career Progression and Information ............................................................................. 6
     Specialty Description
     Skill/Career Progression
         Apprentice (3) Level
         Journeyman (5) Level
         Craftsman (7) Level
         Superintendent (9) Level
     Training Decisions
     Community College of the Air Force
     Career Field Path
         Enlisted Career Path
     Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist

 Section C – Skill Level Training Requirements ............................................................................. 14
    Purpose
    Specialty Qualification Requirements
        Apprentice Level Training
        Journeyman Level Training
        Craftsman Level Training
        Superintendent Level Training
 Section D – Resource Constraints .................................................................................................16
 Section E – Transitional Training Guide .......................................................................................17

 PART II
 Section A – Course Objective List .................................................................................................... 18
 Section B – Support Materials ........................................................................................................ 19
 Section C – Training Course Index................................................................................................. 19
 Section D – MAJCOM Unique Requirements ............................................................................... 21
 Section E – Specialty Training Standard ........................................................................................ 21

 OPR: 359 TRS/TRR
 Approved By: HQ USAF/A4LY (CMSgt Bryan D. Cannon)
 Supersedes: CFETP 2A7X5, 01 February 2011
 Number of printed pages: 52



                                                                             i
                                                                        CFETP 2A7X5, 01 Aug 2014

      CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN LOW OBSERVABLE
            AIRCRAFT STRUCTURAL MAINTENANCE SPECIALTY
                             AFSC 2A7X5

PART I

Preface

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for the 2A7X5, Low Observable Aircraft
Structural Maintenance (LOASM) specialty. The CFETP will provide personnel a clear career
path to success and instill rigor in all aspects of career field training. To read, review, or print a
copy of the current CFETP, go to AF e-publishing at: www.e-publishing.af.mil. This CFETP
supersedes 2A7X5 CFETP, 01 Feb 2011.

NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty position
qualification training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts; supervisors will use both parts to plan, manage, and control
training within the career field.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C
associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, training, and other).
Section D indicates resource constraints to accomplishing this plan, such as funds, manpower,
equipment, and facilities. Section E identifies transition training guide requirements to support
career field restructures.

2.2 Part II includes the following: Section A contains the course objective list and training
standards supervisors will use to determine if Airmen have satisfied training requirements.
Section B identifies available support materials, such as Qualification Training Package (QTP)
which may be developed to support proficiency training. Section C identifies a training course
index supervisors can use to determine if resources are available to support training. Included
here are both mandatory and optional courses. Index includes both mandatory and optional
courses. Section D identifies MAJCOM unique training requirements supervisors can use to
determine additional training required for the associated qualification needs. Section E identifies
the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and includes duties, tasks, technical references to support
training; Air Education and Training Command (AETC) conducted training, wartime course/core
task and correspondence course requirements. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use
Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive
effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan will enable us to
train today’s work force for tomorrow’s jobs.




                                                   1
                                                                         CFETP 2A7X5, 01 Aug 2014

ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training (AT). A formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in one
or more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance
their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career airmen at the advanced level of
the AFS.

Air Force Doctrine Development Center (AFDDEC). The center researches, develops, and
produces Air Force basic and operational doctrine, as well as joint and multinational doctrine.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a
particular job type or duty position. They are used by supervisors to document task
qualifications. The tasks on an AFJQS are common to all persons serving in the described duty
position.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive,
multipurpose document covering the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field.
It outlines a logical growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career
field training identifiable, to eliminate duplication, and to ensure this training is budget
defensible.

Certification. A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required
standards.

Certification Official. A person the commander assigns to determine an individual’s ability to
perform a task to required standards.

Continuation Training. Additional training that exceeds requirements with emphasis on
present or future duty assignments.

Contract Training. Type 1 training that receives the same priority funding as Air Force
directed training. It supports initial groups of instructors, operators, etc., that the Air Force
requires for new or modified weapon systems.

Core Task. Tasks that the Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) identifies as minimum
qualification requirements within an Air Force Specialty.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements
and respective standards provided to achieve a 3-7-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use
the COL to assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Air
Force Training Program.

Course Training Standard (CTS). Training standard that identifies the training members will
receive in a specific course not covered in the CFETP.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in each skill level of a specialty.



                                                   2
                                                                      CFETP 2A7X5, 01 Aug 2014

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video,
or other necessary means to supplement training.

Field Technical Training (Type 4/7). Special or regular on-site training conducted by a
training detachment (TD) (Type 4) or by a mobile training team (MTT) (Type 7).

Integrated Maintenance Data System (IMDS). Formerly called Core Automated Maintenance
System (CAMS); the primary Air Force production-oriented, base-level automated Maintenance
Information System (MIS).

IMDS for Mobility (G081). Provides both a maintenance management system and a logistics
command and control system for the C-5, C-130, KC-10, KC-135, and C-17 fleets.

Integrated Maintenance Information System (IMIS). The objective of IMIS is to give
maintenance technicians a very small size portable computer/display that will interface with on-
aircraft systems and other computer systems to provide a single, integrated source of the
information needed to perform maintenance on the line and in the shop.

Initial Skills Training (IST). A formal school course that results in the award of a 3-skill level
AFSC.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly process for developing,
validating, and reviewing instructional programs that ensures personnel are taught the knowledge
and skills essential for successful job performance.

Low Observable Aircraft Structural Maintenance (LOASM). USAF career field focused on
non-reflective aspects of aircraft airframe structures and coatings.

MAJCOM Mandatory Course Listing (MMCL). Identifies mandatory maintenance training
requirements for initial technical school graduates, retrainees, and personnel with no experience
on assigned mission design series (MDS) aircraft. It also ensures maintenance personnel receive
training commensurate to their current duty position.

Mission Design Series (MDS). Aircraft (i.e., B-2, F-22, F-35).

Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). A detailed report showing the results of an
occupational survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training at the duty location used to
certify personnel for both skill level upgrade and duty position qualification.

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an
Airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the
upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills/knowledge required to
do the job.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as funding, facilities, time, manpower, and
equipment, that preclude desired training from being delivered.



                                                 3
                                                                    CFETP 2A7X5, 01 Aug 2014


Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force
Specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge an airman may be expected to perform or to know
on the job. It serves as a contract between Air Education and Training Command and the
functional user to identify the overall training requirements for an Air Force Specialty
taught in formal schools, career development courses, and exportable courses.

Training by Other Government Agencies (Type 5). This training includes training conducted
by the Army, Navy, Air Force agency or unit other than AETC, and other government agencies
inside or outside of the Department of Defense (DoD).

Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-
the-job, field training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.).

Upgrade Training (UGT). A mixture of mandatory courses, task qualification, and CDCs
required for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, or 9-skill level.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum, co-chaired by the AFCFM and
Training Pipeline Manager, of MAJCOM Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) functional
managers, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training personnel that determines career
ladder training requirements.

Web Site Links:

 AFCDA                 https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
                       af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?channelPageId=s88B4F00B36F10E8101370
 CCAF                  http://www.au.af.mil/au/barnes/ccaf/index.asp

 ETCA                  https://etca.randolph.af.mil/

 367 TRS/TRSS          https://367trss.hill.af.mil/.

 982 MXS/TST           https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
                       af/USAF/AFP40/d/s6925EC134F0A0FB5E044080020E329A9/Files/
                       editorial/catalog.html

 LO/ASM CoP            https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/OO-LG-OO-06/default.aspx

 LO/ASM School
 SharePoint            https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/ae-ed-00-23/default.aspx

AF Corrosion         https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
Office               af/USAF/ep/browse.do?categoryId=p88B4F00B441D422B0144261152
                     6D0105&channelPageId=s6925EC133EFE0FB5E044080020E329A9
 AF Composite        https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
 Office              af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?channelPageId=s6925EC1338770FB5E044080
                     020E329A9


                                                  4
                                                                       CFETP 2A7X5, 01 Aug 2014


Section A - General Information

1. Purpose of the CFETP. This CFETP provides information necessary for Air Force Career
Field Managers (AFCFMs), MAJCOM functional managers (MFMs), commanders, training
managers, supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective career
field training program. This plan outlines the training that individuals in AFSC 2A7X5 should
receive to develop and progress throughout their career. This plan identifies initial skills,
upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency training. Initial skills training is the AFS
specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon retraining into this
specialty for award of the 3-skill level. This training is conducted by AETC at Naval Air Station
(NAS) Pensacola, FL. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification
requirements, and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-,
and 9-skill levels. Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed
to qualify an Airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and
after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills/knowledge
required to do the job. Advanced training is formal specialty training used for selected Airmen.
Proficiency training is additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training
courses, or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge
beyond the minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP has several purposes; some are:

1.1. To serve as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field
training program. It is also used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in
an individual’s career.

1.2. To identify task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty
and recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.

1.3. To list training courses that are available in the specialty and identifies sources of training
and the training delivery method.

1.4. To identify major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired career
field training process.

2. Uses of the CFETP. The plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure
comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop/revise formal resident, non-resident, Training
Detachment (TD), and exportable training based on requirements established by the users and
documented in Part II of the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop
acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial,
upgrade, and proficiency requirements. Identified requirements can be satisfied by OJT, resident
training, contract training, or exportable courses. MAJCOM-developed mandatory training to
support this AFS must be identified for inclusion into the plan and must not duplicate other
available training resources.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan.
                                                   5
                                                                        CFETP 2A7X5, 01 Aug 2014

The lists of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP. The AFCFM is the approval authority for
AFSC 2A7X5 and the AETC Training Manager will initiate an annual review of this document
by AETC and MFMs to ensure currency and accuracy. The using MAJCOM representatives and
AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field training requirements.
Using the list of courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.

Section B - Career Progression and Information

4. Specialty Description.

4.1 Specialty Summary. Refer to Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD),
paragraph 1. Evaluates, installs, removes, and repairs low observable coatings. Designs, repairs,
modifies, and fabricates aircraft, metal, plastic, composite, advanced composite, low observable,
and bonded structural parts and components. Applies preservative treatments to aircraft,
aerospace ground equipment (AGE), and support equipment (SE). Related DoD Occupational
Subgroup: 160300

 4.2. Duties and Responsibilities: Refer to Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory
(AFECD), paragraph 2.

4.2.1. Applies low observable materials and coatings to aircraft. Repairs low observable and
metallic structural parts and components to meet requirements for preserving structural integrity.
Assesses damage impacts to aircraft signatures. Advises on structural and low observable repair,
modification, and corrosion protection treatment with respect to original strength, weight, and
contour to maintain structural and low observable integrity. Assembles and repairs using special
fasteners and adhesives. Inspects standard LO repairs to ensure compliance with technical data
specifications. Manufactures layouts, jigs, fixtures, forms, and molds.

4.2.2. Removes Radar Absorbent Material (RAM) by sanding, scraping or pulling using manual
and powered methods. Fabricates repair parts from RAM, using cutting tools and adheres them to
aircraft surfaces and fasteners using vacuum bags, fixtures, and other pressure inducing processes.
Applies scrim material to RAM and aircraft surfaces in preparation for RAM cover strip
installation. Installs RAM cover strips to panel and skin gaps. Applies RAM pastes to aircraft
surface gaps, voids, and gouges. Sands and skives RAM and RAM pastes to required contours.
Repairs low observable treatments on polycarbonate transparencies using edge sealing
compounds, adhesives, primers, and conductive films. Performs repair actions to ceramic RAM
coatings associated with engine hot areas and adjacent fairings using grit blasters and approved
high temperature curing equipment. Identifies, removes, and treats corrosion using mechanical
and chemical procedures. Applies aircraft paint schemes and markings.

4.2.3. Removes low observable finishes and treatments by sanding, scraping, cutting, gouging,
and pulling, using manual and powered methods. Sands surface finishes to specified depths and
widths to prepare them for proper reapplication of finishes using manual and powered methods.
Determines extent of damage and/or scope of task and performs finish and treatment removal tasks
accordingly. Removes panel, door, and skin fasteners to gain access to aircraft interior and replaces
fasteners following maintenance. Cleans aircraft exterior surfaces and gaps to prepare them for
filler treatments, fairing materials, and other follow-on maintenance. Mixes multi-part adhesives,
sealants, fillers, fairing materials, and organic topcoats. Uses maintainer-fabricated enclosures with
                                                    6
                                                                      CFETP 2A7X5, 01 Aug 2014

environmental control units, heaters, and climate control equipment to stabilize repair sites.
Applies, sands, and skives fillers and fairing materials to Joint/Technical Order Data (TOD)
specifications for waviness, step condition, and aerodynamic smoothness. Applies organic low
observable topcoats and rain erosion materials using spray equipment, brushes and rollers. Uses
ambient and accelerated cure processes to cure adhesives, sealants, fillers, fairing materials, and
organic topcoats. Uses planform alignment procedures to determine proper repair angles and
dimensions for low observable finishes and treatments. Uses metalworking equipment and tools to
form, cut, bend, and fasten replacement or repair parts to damaged structures and components.
Fabricates, repairs, and assembles tubing assemblies for aerospace weapon systems and AGE/SE.
Maintains and inspects tools and equipment. Performs operator maintenance and service
inspections on shop equipment and tools. Stores, handles, and disposes of hazardous waste and
materials according to environmental standards and classifications.

4.2.4. Inspects coatings, structures, and components to determine operational status. Interprets
inspection findings, and determines corrective actions. Posts entries and maintains maintenance and
inspection records. Recommends methods to improve equipment performance and maintenance
procedures. Uses portable maintenance aids (PMA) and automated maintenance systems. Inputs,
validates, and analyzes data processed to automated systems. Clears and closes out completed
maintenance discrepancies in automated maintenance systems. Evaluates structural damage to
aircraft structures or items and applies appropriate repair procedures to include application of
adhesive films, prepregs, foam, and tape; and scarfing, layup, vacuum bagging, and accelerated
curing techniques. Performs inspection and repair procedures for graphite Bismaleimide resin
(BMI), graphite epoxy woven fabric, and uni-directional assemblies to include use of adhesive
film, foam, tape, scarfing, lay-up and bagging techniques associated with hot bonders. Selects core
materials to complete repairs, makes templates to use as patterns, and assures proper ply orientation
and de-bulking. Selects bond form and prepares tools; lays-up; mixes and applies two part
adhesives and sealants; installs temperature monitoring devices; cures adhesives; and otherwise
completes repairs. Specifies curing process/specification to autoclave/curing oven operator for the
part to be cured. Removes completed items from bond forms after the cure cycle. Inspects final
assembly for visual damage or flaws.

5. Skill/Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to
the superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force’s ability to accomplish its
mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training do their part to plan, manage, and
conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will
ensure each individual receives necessary training at appropriate points in their career. The
following narrative and AFSC 2A7X5 career field table identify the skill/career progression.

5.1. Apprentice (3) Level. Following Basic Military Training, initial skills training will be
provided in a resident course (JCABP2A735 048X) at 359th Training Squadron Detachment
1, NAS Pensacola, Florida. The course will lay the foundation for additional training at the
graduate's first duty assignment. Upon graduation, trainees will utilize the Career
Development Courses (CDCs), task qualification training, and other exportable courses to
progress in their career field. Once the trainer signs off the task, the trainee may perform the
task unsupervised.

5.2. Journeyman (5) Level. Once upgraded to the 5-level, the journeyman will enter into
continuation training to broaden their experience base by increasing their knowledge and skill in
troubleshooting and solving more complex problems. A 5-level may be assigned to various staff
positions. After having 48 months in the Air Force (or sooner if individual has a line number for
                                                 7
                                                                    CFETP 2A7X5, 01 Aug 2014

SSgt), 5-levels will attend Airman Leadership School (ALS) to enhance their Professional
Military Education (PME). A 5-level will be considered for appointment as a trainer.
Individuals will use their CDCs to prepare for Weighted Airman Promotion testing. They are
highly encouraged to continuing their education toward a Community College of the Air Force
(CCAF) degree in their respective career field.

5.3. Craftsman (7) Level. A craftsman can expect to fill various supervisory and management
positions such as shift leader, element chief, shop chief, and various staff positions such as
quality assurance. Exportable MDS specific courses and MAJCOM/unit directed courses are
also available. A 7-level should take courses or obtain added knowledge in management of
resources and personnel. Continued academic education through CCAF and higher degree
programs is highly encouraged in their respective career field. In addition, when promoted to
TSgt, individuals will attend the Noncommissioned Officer Academy.

5.4. Superintendent (9) Level. A 9-level can be expected to fill positions such as flight chief,
production supervisor, and various staff NCOIC jobs. Additional training in the areas of budget,
manpower, resources, and personnel management should be pursued through continuing
education. Additional higher education and completion of courses outside their career AFS is
also highly recommended.

6. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Low Observable Aircraft
Structural Maintenance career field. The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how
to meet these training requirements. The strategy must ensure we develop affordable training,
eliminate duplication, and prevent a fragmented approach to training. The following training
decisions were made at the 17-21 March 2014 career field U&TW conducted virtually.

6.1. Initial Skills. Multiple changes were made to the STS affecting the initial skills course.
Decisions were made to modify training to tasks common to both ASM and LOASM career
fields as well as LOASM-specific tasks. Numerous tasks fundamental to LOASM will be taught
at the “B/b” level; and several LOASM performance tasks levels were increased to the “2b”
level. The initial skills course will remain generic to insure course content will remain at the
unclassified level. The projected course length will be 58 days.

6.2. Five-Level Upgrade Requirements. There will be 39 common 5-level core tasks , plus 43
for B-2, 46 for F-22 and 31 for F-35. Total 5-level core task listed is 159. 2A755 CDCs will
require a major rewrite to remove unnecessary information and reorganization. The number of
volumes (4) is not anticipated to change.

6.3. Seven-Level Upgrade Requirements. There will be eight common 7-level core tasks, plus
6 for B-2. No 7-level core task requirements were established for F-22 or F-35 during workshop.
Total 7-level core task listed is 13. There are no 2A775 CDCs; LOASM personnel will complete
the 2AX7X CDCs.

6.4. Supplemental Training. All ASM supplemental courses are available to LOASM
personnel.

6.5. Continuation Training. Any additional knowledge and skill requirements which were not
taught through initial or upgrade training are assigned to unit training or Training Detachments.

                                                8
                                                                    CFETP 2A7X5, 01 Aug 2014

The purpose of the continuation training program is to provide additional training exceeding
minimum upgrade training requirements with emphasis on present and future duty positions.
MAJCOMs develop a proficiency training program that ensures individuals in the Low
Observable Aircraft Structural Maintenance career field receive the necessary training at the
appropriate point in their career. The program identifies both mandatory and optional training
requirements.

7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon
completion of basic military training. CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate in
Applied Sciences technical degree. In addition to its associate degree program, CCAF offers the
following:

7.1. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Airframe and Powerplant (A&P) Certification.
Air Force aircraft maintenance technicians are eligible to pursue FAA A&P certification based on
training and experience in accordance with Federal Aviation Regulation Part 65. The DoD
established the Joint Service Aviation Maintenance Technician Certification Council (JSAMTCC)
to standardize the eligibility and certification process for the military and provide direction and
resources necessary to fill the gaps within military training and experience. Completing the Air
Force A&P Certification Program, managed by CCAF, will fill training and experience gaps,
ensuring FAA eligibility. The program consists of three Air University Online A&P Specialized
Courses, OJT and experience requirements contained in a Qualification Training Package (QTP).
Technicians may enroll once they have been awarded the 5-skill level. To learn more, visit CCAF
at http://www.au.af.mil/au/barnes/ccaf/certifications.asp. CCAF awards 30 semester hours for
FAA A&P certification and 18 semester hours for FAA Airframe or Powerplant certification.

7.2. SpaceTEC Aerospace Technician Certification. Air Force aircraft maintenance
technicians are eligible to pursue SpaceTEC Aerospace Technician certification based on
aviation training and experience. SpaceTEC certification is endorsed by NASA and the
Aerospace industry. Air University Online offers a Specialized Course to assist technicians
prepare for the Aerospace Technician certification exams. To learn more, visit SpaceTEC at
http://www.spacetec.org/ or CCAF at http://www.au.af.mil/au/barnes/ccaf/certifications.asp.
CCAF awards 25 semester hours for the SpaceTEC Aerospace Technician certification.

7.3. CCAF Instructor Certification (CIC) Program. CCAF offers the three-tiered CIC
Program for qualified instructors teaching at CCAF affiliated schools who have demonstrated a
high level of professional accomplishment. The purpose of the certifications is to recognize the
outstanding instructor training provided to prepare them to teach CCAF collegiate courses. The
certifications also formally acknowledge the instructor’s advanced levels of qualifications and
experience. Upon completion of the CCAF Faculty Development Program, consisting of the
Basic Instructor Course (BIC) and CCAF Teaching Internship, CCAF instructors who complete
program requirements may be nominated for certification by their school commander or
commandant. The CIC Program replaced the CCAF Occupational Instructor Certification
Program.

7.4. CCAF Instructional Systems Development (ISD) Certification Program. CCAF offers
the ISD Certification Program for qualified course/curriculum developers and managers who are
formally assigned at CCAF affiliated schools to develop and manage CCAF collegiate courses.
The purpose of the certification is to recognize the course/curriculum developer’s or managers
extensive training, education, qualifications and experience required to develop and manage
CCAF courses. Course/curriculum developers and managers who complete program
                                                  9
                                                                     CFETP 2A7X5, 01 Aug 2014

requirements may be nominated for certification by their school commander, commandant or
faculty development chief.

7.5. CCAF Professional Manager Certification (PMC). CCAF offers the PMC Program for
Air Force SNCO’s. The purpose of the certification is to formally recognize the individual’s
outstanding education and training required to lead and manage Air Force personnel and critical
national defense assets. It also acknowledges the individuals management qualifications and
experience in managing Air Force resources. Qualified Air Force enlisted personnel are eligible
to pursue this certification. SNCO’s who complete program requirements may be nominated for
certification by their unit commander or commandant.

7.6. CCAF Credentialing and Education Research Tool (CERT). CCAF implemented
CERT to increase awareness of professional development opportunities applicable to Air Force
occupational specialties. It is a valuable resource for Air Force enlisted personnel and provides
information related to specific AFSCs, such as: AFSC description; civilian occupation
equivalencies (US Department of Labor); CCAF degree programs; national professional
certifications; certifying agencies; DANTES testing; and professional organizations. To learn
more, visit CCAF at http://www.au.af.mil/au/barnes/ccaf/certifications.asp.

7.7. CCAF Degree Requirements. All airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF
program. Prior to completing an associate degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the following
requirements must be met:



                                                                         Semester Hours
Technical Education ...........................................................24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies ...................6
Physical Education ...............................................................4
General Education ............................................................... 15
Program Elective ................................................................. 15
(Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education)

                                      Total               64



7.7.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): Completion of the LOASM Apprentice
course satisfies some semester hours of the technical education requirements. A minimum of 24
semester hours of Technical Core subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining semester
hours applied from Technical Core/Technical Elective courses.

7.7.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Professional
military education and/or civilian management courses.

7.7.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of
Basic Military Training.

7.7.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
                                                10
                                                                    CFETP 2A7X5, 01 Aug 2014

application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement with
the definitions of applicable General Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF
General Catalog.

7.7.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects/courses, including
natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Six semester hours of CCAF degree
applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied. See the
CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science for this specialty.

7.8. Air Education and Training Command (AETC) Instructor Requirements: Additional
off-duty education is a personal choice that is encouraged for all. Individuals desiring to become
an AETC instructor should be actively pursuing an associate degree. A degreed faculty is
necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.




                                                11
                                                                             CFETP 2A7X5, 01 Aug 2014

  8. Career Field Path

  8.1. Enlisted Career Path. Table 8.1 identifies career milestones for the 2A7X5 AF Specialty.

                                       Table 8.1. Enlisted Career Path
                                                                    Grade Requirements
Education and Training Requirements                 Rank      Average   Earliest  High Year Of Tenure
                                                              Sew-On    Sew-On          (HYT)
Basic Military Training School
Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)         Amn       6 months
                                                    A1C      16 months
Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level)               Amn       6 months         28
- Minimum 12 months OJT.                            A1C      16 months       months
- Minimum 9 months OJT for retrainees.              SrA        3 years         22                8 years
- Complete all 5-level core tasks on one MDS.                                months
- Complete applicable CDC.                                                    BTZ
Airman Leadership School (ALS)                                                Trainer
- Must be a SrA with 48 months’ time in            - Trained and qualified to perform the task to be trained.
  service or be a SSgt selectee.                   - Must attend the Air Force Training Course.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt
  sew-on (Active Duty Only).
                                                                              Certifier
                                                   - Must be a SSgt with a 5-skill level or civilian equivalent.
                                                   - Must attend the AF Training Course.
                                                   - Be a person other than the trainer except for AFSCs, duty
                                                     positions, nits, and/or work centers with specialized
                                                     training standardization and certification requirements.
Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)                 SSgt      5.3 years      3 years             15 years
- Minimum rank of SSgt.
- Minimum 12 months OJT.
- Minimum 6 months OJT for retrainees.
- Complete all 5- and 7-level core tasks on one
  mission design aircraft.
- Complete applicable CDC.
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)              TSgt      11.4 years     5 years            20 years
- Must be a TSgt or MSgt selectee, or MSgt.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt    MSgt      16.6 years     8 years            24 years
  sew-on (Active Duty Only).
USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)                    SMSgt      20.8 years    11 years            26 years
- Must be a MSgt or SMSgt Selectee or SMSgt.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
  SMSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).
Upgrade To Superintendent (9-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SMSgt.
Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM)                       CMSgt      23.5 years    14 years            30 years




                                                      12
                                                                      CFETP 2A7X5, 01 Aug 2014


  8.2. Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist:

                  Table 8.2. Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist
Requirements for Upgrade to:                                                                 Y   N
Journeyman
- Has the apprentice completed mandatory CDCs?
- Has the apprentice completed all appropriate 5-level core tasks identified in the CFETP?
- Has the apprentice completed 12 months training (9 months for retrainees) for award of
  the 5-skill level?
- Has the apprentice met mandatory requirements listed in specialty description Air Force
  Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD) and the CFETP?
- Has the apprentice been recommended by their supervisor?
Craftsman
- Has the journeyman achieved the rank of SSgt?
- Has the journeyman completed mandatory 2AX7X CDCs?
- Has the journeyman completed all core tasks identified in the CFETP?
- Has the journeyman completed a minimum 12 months (6 months for retrainees) UGT
  for award of the 7-skill level?


  TO: Squadron/CC

  FROM: Squadron Training Manager

  SUBJECT: Upgrade Trainee

  Trainee is prepared to be upgraded and has completed all training requirements.




          Training Manager                             Supervisor




                                                  13
                                                                     CFETP 2A7X5, 01 Aug 2014

Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements

9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in the 2A7X5 career field are defined in terms of
tasks and knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements
for each skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry,
award, and retention of each skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements
are identified in the STS at Part II, Sections A and E of this CFETP.

10. Specialty Qualification Requirements. The various skill levels in this career field are
defined in terms of tasks and knowledge proficiency requirements for each skill level. They are
stated in broad general terms and establish the standards of performance. Unit work centers must
develop a structured training program to ensure the following requirements are met.

10.1. Apprentice Level Training (3-Level):

10.1.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is located in the official specialty description
in Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), paragraph 3.

10.1.1.1. Knowledge. The following knowledge is mandatory: LOASM aircraft construction
features; identification and characteristics of materials; repair of coatings, LOASM materials,
metal tubing, plastic, fiberglass, bonded honeycomb, and advanced composite structural
components; shop drawing and layout techniques; shop mathematics; corrosion identification,
removal, repair, and prevention; removal/application of protective coatings, LOASM materials;
proper use, mixing, and storage of acids, solvents, alcohol, caustics, primers, and paints; and
proper handling and disposal of hazardous waste and materials.

10.1.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school with courses in
mathematics, algebra, chemistry, physics, mechanical drawing, and metal working are
desirable.

10.1.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2A735, completion of the basic low observable aircraft
structural maintenance course is mandatory.

10.1.1.4. Experience. To retain AFSC 2A7X5, current special access for the specific weapons
system program (F-22, B-2) is required.

10.1.2. Training Sources and Resources. The initial skills course will provide the required
knowledge and qualification.

10.1.3. Implementation. Upon graduation from Basic Military Training (BMT), completion of
the Low Observable Aircraft Structural Maintenance Apprentice course is mandatory. This
course satisfies the knowledge and training resource requirements for award of the 3-skill level.

10.2. Journeyman Level Training (5-Level):

10.2.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is located in the official specialty description
in Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), paragraph 3.



                                                14
                                                                    CFETP 2A7X5, 01 Aug 2014


10.2.1.1. Knowledge. The following knowledge is mandatory: LOASM aircraft construction
features; identification and characteristics of materials; repair of coatings, LOASM materials,
metal tubing, cable, plastic, fiberglass, bonded honeycomb, and advanced composite structural
components; shop drawing and layout techniques; shop mathematics; corrosion identification,
removal, repair, and prevention; removal/application of protective coatings, LOASM materials;
proper use, mixing, and storage of acids, solvents, alcohol, caustics, primers, and paints; and
proper handling and disposal of hazardous waste and materials.

10.2.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for
the apprentice level. However, completion of a CCAF degree is desirable.

10.2.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2A755, the 5-level CDC provides the career knowledge
training required. Qualification training and OJT will provide training and qualification on the
core tasks identified in the STS. The CDC is written to build from the trainee's current
knowledge base, and provides more in-depth knowledge to support OJT requirements.

10.2.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A735. Also, experience in
functions such as fabricating, repairing, assembling, or installing aircraft low observable
materials, metals, plastics, fiberglass, advanced composites, or honeycomb parts; or corrosion
identification, removal, and applying coatings and markings. Completion of all 5-level core
tasks on one MDS aircraft identified in the STS is mandatory.

10.2.2. Training Sources and Resources. A minimum of 12 months (9 months for retrainees)
on-the-job training, completion of the 2A755 CDC, and completion of the 5-level core tasks
represent the resources needed for award of the 5-skill level.

10.2.3. Implementation. Training to the 5-level is performed by the units utilizing this STS,
exportable courses, and CDCs. Upgrade to the 5-level requires completion of the 2A755 CDC,
completion of all core tasks on one MDS aircraft, and 12 months upgrade training.

10.3. Craftsman Level Training (7-Level):

10.3.1 Specialty Qualification. This information is located in the official specialty description
in Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), paragraph 3.

10.3.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to 5-level knowledge, a 7-level must possess knowledge of:
supervisory responsibilities (i.e., training documentation, equipment management, supply
management, etc.) and workload planning (i.e., job prioritization, task assignment, personnel
scheduling, etc.).

10.3.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for
the journeyman level. However, completion of a CCAF degree is desirable.

10.3.1.3. Training. Completion of the 2AX7X CDC and of the 7-level core tasks represent the
requirements for award to the 7-skill level.




                                                15
                                                                     CFETP 2A7X5, 01 Aug 2014


10.3.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A755. Also, experience
supervising functions dealing with corrosion identification, prevention, and repair; applying
protective coatings and markings; or fabricating, assembling, and repairing aircraft low
observable materials metal, fiberglass, advanced composites, honeycomb, and plastics.

10.3.2. Training Sources and Resources. Completion of CDC 2AX7X, along with completion
of AFCFM directed core tasks, represent the sources required for award of the 7-skill level.

10.3.3. Implementation. Upgrade to the 7-level will require completion of all AFCFM directed
core tasks, a minimum of 12 months OJT as SSgt, and completion of the 2AX7X CDC.

10.4. Superintendent Level Training (9-Level):

10.4.1 Specialty Qualification. This information is located in the official specialty description
in Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), paragraph 3.

10.4.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of low observable aircraft structural
maintenance, aircraft structural maintenance, metals technology, survival equipment, and
nondestructive inspection methods; characteristics and identification of aerospace and non-
aerospace materials; concepts and application of maintenance directives ; maintenance data
reporting; and proper handling, storage, use and disposal of hazardous waste and materials.

10.4.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for
the craftsman level. However, completion of a CCAF degree is desirable.

10.4.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2A790, promotion to SMSgt is mandatory.

10.4.1.4. Experience. For award of AFSC 2A790, qualification in and possession of AFSC
2A771/72/73 or 75 is mandatory. Also, experience is mandatory managing structural
maintenance, metals technology, survival equipment, or nondestructive inspection
specialties and functions.

10.4.2. Training Sources and Resources. None.

10.4.3. Implementation. The 9-level will be awarded after promotion to SMSgt.

Section D - Resource Constraints

11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints that preclude optimal/desired
training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower.
Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what
effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section are actions
required, office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource constraints will
be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.




                                                16
                                                                   CFETP 2A7X5, 01 Aug 2014


12. Apprentice Level Training. There are no manpower/man-year resource constraints.
Course revision will require addition minor equipment for modification of compressed air
handling and expendable materials/hardware for student use in completion of performance task
training.

13. Five-Level Training: CDCs for upgrade to the journeyman level will require a major
revision. Manpower position needs to be allotted and filled to expedite revision completion.
CDCs will be revised in spite of this constraint.

14. Seven-Level Training. There are no constraints.

Section E. - Transitional Training Guide. There are no transition training requirements. This
area is reserved.




                                               17
                                                                    CFETP 2A7X5, 01 Aug 2014


PART II

Section A - Course Objective List

1. Measurement. Each proficiency coded STS task or knowledge item taught at the technical
school is measured through the use of an objective. An objective is a written instruction for so
the student knows what is expected of them to successfully complete training on each task. Each
objective is comprised of a condition, behavior, and standard which states what is expected of the
student for each task. The condition is the setting in which the training takes place. The
behavior is the action a student must demonstrate to accomplish a task (i.e., remove and install
wheel and tire assembly). The standard is the level of performance that is measured to ensure the
STS proficiency code level is attained. Each objective uses letter code(s) to identify how it is
measured. All objectives use the PC code which indicates a progress check is used to measure
subject or task knowledge. Progress checks are also used to measure student accomplishment of
performance objectives. W indicates a comprehensive written test and is used to measure the
subject and/or task knowledge at the end of a block of instruction. PC/W indicates separate
measurement of both knowledge and performance elements using a written test and a
performance progress check.

2. Standard. The minimum standard is 70% on written examinations. Standards for
performance measurement are indicated in the objective and delineated on the individual
progress checklist. The checklist is used by the instructor to document each student’s progress
on each task. Instructor assistance is provided as needed during the progress check, and students
may be required to repeat all or part of the behavior until satisfactory performance is attained.
Students must satisfactorily complete all PCs prior to taking the written test.

3. Proficiency Level. Review column 4A of the STS to determine the proficiency level of a
particular task or knowledge item. Review the course objective list to determine which STS item
the objective supports. Review the proficiency code key in Part II, Section E of this CFETP for
an explanation of the proficiency codes

4. Course Objectives. A detailed listing of initial skills objectives may be obtained by
submitting a written request to the AETC Training Manager, 359 TRS Det 1/TRR, 230 Chevalier
Field Ave., NAS Pensacola FL, 32508-5142.




                                                18
                                                                    CFETP 2A7X5, 01 Aug 2014


Section B - Support Material

5. The following list of support material is not all inclusive; however, it covers the most
frequently referenced areas. Support material is any training package designed to enhance the
learning process at any level of training. Refer to the Air Force Education and Training Course
Announcements (ETCA) for information on AETC formal courses. ETCA can be accessed at
https://etca.randolph.af.mil/.

5.1. Interactive Courseware (ICW) courses are available from (or under development by)
367 TRS/TRSS, Hill AFB, Utah. Their course catalog is available on the Internet at
https://367trss.hill.af.mil/. Questions should be referred to the customer service number at DSN
777-2788.

5.2. This paragraph lists the Training Detachment courses and address for points of contact for
information on these courses. The address is 372 TRS/CCS, 912 I Avenue, Sheppard AFB,
Texas 76311-2361.

   COURSE NUMBER                              COURSE TITLE                             OPR
J4AMP2A7X5 A02B                  B-2 Composite Repair                               372 TRS
J4AMP2A7X5 B02B                  B-2 Low Observable Maintenance                      372 TRS
                                 F-22 Structural Maintenance Basic Coatings and
J4AMP2A7X5 A27A                                                                     372 TRS
                                 Hardware
                                 F-22 Structural Maintenance Advanced Coatings
J4AMP2A7X5 B27A                                                                     372 TRS
                                 and Hardware
                                 F-22 Structural Maintenance Coatings
J4AMP2A7X5 C27A                                                                     372 TRS
                                 Assessment
                                 F-35 LO Maintenance Basics Interim Transition
J4AMP2A7X5 M28A                                                                     372 TRS
                                 Training

Section C - Training Course Index

6. Purpose. This index lists Air Force resident, Career Development Courses (CDC), and
exportable courses used to support training for this specialty. Refer to the Air Force Education
and Training Course Announcements (ETCA) at https://etca.randolph.af.mil/ for information on
AETC formal courses listed below.

6.1. Air Force In-Resident Courses:

COURSE NUMBER             TITLE                                                   OPR
                          Low Observable Aircraft Structural Maintenance
JCABP2A735 048C                                                                   359 TRS Det 1
                          Apprentice
JCAZP2A753 0B1C           Aircraft Metal Bonded Repair                            359 TRS Det 1
JCAZP2A753 0C1C           General Advanced Composite Repair                       359 TRS Det 1

                                               19
                                                                    CFETP 2A7X5, 01 Aug 2014


COURSE NUMBER             TITLE                                                   OPR
JCAZP2A753 0F1C           Aircraft Specialized Fasteners, Stress Relief, Repair   359 TRS Det 1
                          Applications
J7AZT2A753 0M1B           Corrosion Prevention and Control (MTT)                  359 TRS Det 1
J7AZT2A753 0M2B           Basic Repairs to Composites (MTT)                       359 TRS Det 1


For further information contact the OPR at:
        359 TRS Det 1/TRR
        230 Chevalier Field Ave.
        NAS Pensacola, FL 32508-5142
        DSN 459-7483


6.2. Career Development Courses (CDC).

COURSE NUMBER             TITLE                                                   OPR
                          Low Observable Aircraft Structural Maintenance
CDC 2A755                                                                         359 TRS Det 1
                          Journeyman
CDC 2AX7X                 Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman                         362 TRS Det 1


For further information contact the OPR at:
  362 TRS
  613 10th Ave
  Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2352
  DSN 736-5206/6184
  https://etca.randolph.af.mil


6.3. Exportable Courses.

COURSE NUMBER             TITLE                                             OPR         MEDIA
I3ADU00TCB0002            Corrosion Prevention and Control                  367 TRSS    CBT
C6ANU00TVT0001            Aircraft Wash Training                            367 TRSS    Video


For further information contact the OPR at:
  362 TRS
  613 10th Ave
  Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2352
  DSN 736-5206/6184
  https://etca.randolph.af.mil



                                               20
                                                                        CFETP 2A7X5, 01 Aug 2014

For further information contact the OPRs at:

   367 TRSS                               982 MXS/TSU
   6058 Aspen Ave                         912 I Ave Ste 4
   Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805                Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2334
   DSN 777-7830/8741                      DSN 736-3001
   https://367trss.hill.af.mil/.          https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
                                          af/USAF/AFP40/d/s6925EC134F0A0FB5E044080020E
                                          329A9/Files/editorial/catalog.html


6.4. Courses Under Development/Revision.

COURSE NUMBER                         TITLE                                            OPR
                                      Low Observable Aircraft Structural
JCABP2A735 048C                                                                        359 TRS Det 1
                                      Maintenance Apprentice

Section D – MAJCOM-Unique Requirements.

7. For MAJCOM-unique requirements, refer to the following web sites

Combat Air Force (CAF): https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/OO-TE-AC-
42/CAF%20MCL/Forms/AllItems.aspx


Section E - Specialty Training Standard

8. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by Air Education and
Training Command for the apprentice class beginning 12 June 2015. The 5-level CDC need date
is 04 Sept 2015.

9. Purpose of this STS. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, this STS:

9.1. Lists in column 1 (Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical References) the most common tasks,
knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-,
and 7-skill level.

9.2. Identifies in column 2 (Core Tasks) by asterisk (*), specialty-wide training requirements.
If the task is not already designated as a core task, place just the circle at the appropriate location
in the core task column.

9.2.1. Core tasks which are not applicable to base assigned aircraft or equipment are not
required for upgrade (units are not required to send personnel TDY for core task training).

9.2.2. For units with more than one mission design series (MDS) (e.g., A-10) aircraft, upgrade
trainees need only complete core tasks on a single mission design. MFMs, unit commanders,
and/or supervisors may require trainees to complete core task training on additional mission


                                                  21
                                                                      CFETP 2A7X5, 01 Aug 2014

design aircraft, if desired. If some of these core tasks involve training in another unit on base,
trainees must still complete all core tasks relevant to at least one mission design aircraft.
Flightline assigned personnel must complete backshop core tasks and vice versa. All units are
bound by the requirements in this CFETP and will accommodate core task trainees from other
units.

9.3. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and
knowledge training requirements. Use automated training management systems to document
technician qualifications, if available. Task certification must show a certification completed
date.

9.4. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the
proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the
task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course. When two
codes are used in columns 4A and 4C (e.g., 2b/b), the first code is the established requirement
for resident training on the task/knowledge, and the second code indicates the level of training
provided in the course due to equipment shortages or other resource constraints. See
AFCDA/AFSC/CDC listing maintained by the unit training manager for current CDC listing.

9.5. Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion
System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the USAF Airmen
Advancement Division by SNCOs with extensive practical experience in their career fields. The
tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development team members
as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon study references
listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are outlined in AFI 36-2502, Airman
Promotion/Demotion Programs. WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard or Air Force
Reserve.

10. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to
indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and CDCs.

11. Job Qualification Standard. The STS becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-
the-job training when placed in automated training management systems, and used according to
AFI 36-2201. For OJT, the tasks in column 1 are trained and qualified to the go/no go level.
"Go" means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets local requirements
for accuracy, timeliness, and correct procedures. When used as a JQS, the following
requirements apply:

11.1. Documentation. Document and certify completion of training IAW AFI 36-2201. Use of
Part II and attachments one and two in conjunction with attachments three through five (as
applicable to assigned MDS) of this CFETP are mandatory in individual training records. Use of
Part I of this CFETP is optional. Identify duty position requirements by entering into automated
training management systems. As a minimum, complete the following columns in Part 2 of the
CFETP: date training started, date training completed, trainee initials, and trainer initials.




                                                 22
                                                                    CFETP 2A7X5, 01 Aug 2014

11.1.1. Transcribing From Old CFETP to New CFETP. All AFJQSs and previous CFETPs
are replaced by this CFETP; therefore, conversion of all training records to this CFETP STS is
mandatory. Use this CFETP STS (or automated STS) to identify and certify all past and current
qualifications. Document and certify all previous and current training IAW AFI 36-2201.

11.1.2. Documenting Career Knowledge. For two-time CDC course exam failures,
supervisors identify all Part II items corresponding to the areas covered by the CDC. The trainee
completes a study of references, undergoes evaluation by the trainer, and receives certification
on the CFETP Part II. Supervisors must document successful completion of career knowledge
prior to submission of a CDC waiver.

11.2. AF Form 797. When additional items not listed in the CFETP Part II are necessary in the
current duty assignment, enter them on the AF Form 797.

12. Recommendations: Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates to
the AETC training manager at 359 TRS/TRR, 230 Chevalier Field Ave, NAS Pensacola FL,
32508-5142, DSN 459-7483. Please reference specific STS paragraphs. A customer service
information line have been installed for the supervisor's convenience to identify graduates who
may have received over or under training on task/knowledge items listed in this training
standard. For a quick response to problems, call our customer service information line, DSN
736-5236, any time, day or night.




BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL                                       JUDITH A. FEDDER,
                                               Lieutenant General, USAF
                                               DCS/Installations and Logistics


6 Attachments:
1. Proficiency Code Key
2. General STS
3. Aircraft Specific STS – B-2
4. Aircraft Specific STS – F-22
5. Aircraft Specific STS – F-35
6. STS – 2AX7X CDC




                                                23
                                               PROFICIENCY CODE KEY
                                             QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                       Initials (Written)             SSAN

                                               Printed Name Of Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                    N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I


N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I



                                                             Proficiency Code Key
                                    Scale     Definition: The individual
                                    Value
                                       1      Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (Extremely
                                              Limited)
          Task                         2      Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
      Performance                      3      Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
         Levels                        4      Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task.
                                              (Highly Proficient)
                                       a      Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)
         *Task                         b      Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)
       Knowledge                       c      Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                                              (Operating Principles)
          Levels                       d      Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
                                       A      Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
       **Subject                       B      Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (Principles)
       Knowledge                       C      Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
        Levels                         D      Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

X This mark is used alone in the course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.

 NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war time.




                                                                         24
                                                                                                                       Attachment 1
                                                                                                                   Proficiency Code Key
                                                                                                                        CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014

                                                                       2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                       Tasks                                                         Note)
                                                                         A       B        A       B        C        D        E            A            B             C
               1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                          3 Skill Level   5 Skill    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                                                     Level
                                                                       5 Level 7 Level   Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier        (1)           (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                                         Start Complete Initials Initials Initials      Course        CDC      Course    CDC


ATTACHMENT 2, (General STS)
NOTE 1: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 2: All tasks and knowledge identified as training requirements in column 4A will be taught during wartime.
NOTE 3: Items in column 2A/2B marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.
2.1          SECURITY                                                                                          A                                       -         -        -
             TR: DOD 5200.1-R; AFIs 31-401, 31-501
2.2          AF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH
             (AFOSH) PROGRAM
             TR: AFI 91-302; AFOSH standard 48-20, 48-137
2.2.1        Hazards of AFSC 2A7X5
2.2.1.1      In shop                                                                                           A                                       -         -        -
2.2.1.2      Flight line                                                                                       A                                       -         -        -
2.2.1.3      Respiratory protection equipment                                                                  -                                       -         -        -
2.2.1.4      Maintain AF Form 55 (Employee                                                                     -                                       -         -        -
             Safety and Health Record)
2.2.1.5      Maintenance Resource Management                                                                   A                                       -         -        -
             AFI 21-101, USAF MRM Lesson Plan
2.3          HAZARDOUS MATERIALS AND
             WASTE HANDLING ACCORDING TO
             ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS
             TR: AFI 32-7086; AFPAM 32-7043;
             TO 42C-1-12; Applicable AFOSH STDs
2.3.1        Types of hazardous materials                                                                      B                                       B         -        -
2.3.2        Handling procedures                                                                               B                                       B         -        -
2.3.3        Storage and labeling                                                                              B                                       B         -        -
2.3.4        Proper disposal of hazardous materials                                                            B                                       B         -        -
2.3.5        Proper disposal of coating materials                                                              B                                       B         -        -
2.4          SUPERVISION AND TRAINING
             TR: AFIs 21-101, 36-2201; TO 1-1-691; AFECD
2.4.1        Perform Wing Corrosion Manager responsibilities                                                   -                                       -         -        -
2.4.2        Aircraft Wash Management                                                                          -                                       B         -        -
2.4.3        Train personnel
2.4.3.1      Determine training requirements                                                                   -                                       -         -        -
2.4.3.2      Assign OJT trainers or supervisors                                                                -                                       -         -        -
2.4.3.3      Conduct training                                                                                  -                                       -         -        -
2.4.3.4      Maintain records                                                                                  -                                       -         -        -
2.4.3.5      Counsel trainees on training progress                                                             -                                       -         -        -
2.4.4        OJT trainer requirements
2.4.4.1      Prepare teaching outlines or task breakdowns                                                      -                                       -         -        -
2.4.4.2      Provide trainees theory and train on actual equipment                                             -                                       -         -        -
2.4.4.3      Evaluate trainee's knowledge and abilities                                                        -                                       -         -        -
2.4.4.4      Provide supervisor & trainer feedback on results of                                               -                                       -         -        -
             training provided, & trainee's strengths &/or weaknesses
2.4.5        Manage resources
             TR: AFI 21-101; AFMAN 23-110


                                                                  25                                                                          Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                              General STS
                                                                                                                       CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014

                                                                       2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                       Tasks                                                        Note)
                                                                        A       B        A       B        C        D       E             A            B             C
                                                                                                                                    3 Skill Level   5 Skill    7 Skill Level
            1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                            Level
                                                                      5 Level 7 Level   Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier        (1)           (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                                        Start Complete Initials Initials Initials      Course        CDC      Course    CDC


2.4.5.1     Analyze workload requirements                                                                                                -            -         -        -
2.4.5.2     Coordinate with other agencies                                                                                               -            -         -        -
2.4.5.3     Determine or establish priorities                                                                                            -            -         -        -
2.4.5.4     Adjust daily maintenance plans to meet operational                                                                           -            -         -        -
            commitments
2.4.5.5     Direct maintenance activities                                                                                                -            -         -        -
2.4.5.6     Maintain equipment accountability                                                                                            -            -         -        -
2.4.5.7     Plan and schedule maintenance                                       *                                                        -            -         -        -
2.4.6       Determine authorized materials with:
            TR: AFMAN 23-110; TOs 00-5-1, 1-1-8, 1-1-690,
            1-1-691, 1-1-694
2.4.6.1     Technical orders                                                                                                              -          B          -        -
2.4.6.2     Qualified Products Listings (QPLs)                                                                                            -          A          -        -
2.4.6.3     Qualified Products Database (QPD)                                                                                             -          A          -        -
2.4.6.4     Mil Specs                                                                                                                     -          B          -        -
2.4.7       Supplies
2.4.7.1     Issue                                                                                                                        -            -         -        -
2.4.7.2     Establish levels                                                                                                             -            -         -        -
2.4.7.3     Maintain levels                                                                                                              -            -         -        -
2.4.7.4     Shelf Life Program                                                                                                           A            B         -        -
2.4.7.5     Deficiency Reporting Program                                                                                                 -            -         -        -
2.4.7.6     Initiate deficiency reports                                                                                                  -            -         -        -
2.4.7.7     Depot Level Repairable (DLR)
2.4.7.7.1   Identify                                                                                                                      -           -         -        -
2.4.7.7.2   Process                                                                                                                       -           -         -        -
2.5         TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT
            TR: AFI 21-101; TOs 1-1A-8, 1-1-690, 1-1-691,
            1-1-694, 32-1-101, applicable -32, -33, -34 series TOs,
            and equipment manuals
2.5.1       Composite Tool Kits (CTKs)
2.5.1.1     Inventory                                                   *                                                               2b            -         -        -
2.5.1.2     Manage                                                                                                                       -            -         -        -
2.5.1.3     Use tool accountability software                                                                                             -            -         -        -
2.5.1.4     Report lost tools                                           *                                                                a            -         -        -
2.5.1.5     Conduct lost tool investigation                                     *                                                        -            -         -        -
2.5.2       Use hand tools                                                                                                              2b            b         -        -
2.5.3       Maintain tools                                              *                                                                -            -         -        -
2.5.4       Maintain shop equipment                                     *                                                                -            b         -        -
2.5.5       Use shop equipment
2.5.5.1     Arbor press                                                                                                                  -            -         -        -
2.5.5.2     Band saw                                                                                                                    2b            a         -        -
2.5.5.3     Weld band saw blades                                                                                                         -            -         -        -
2.5.5.4     Shrinking and stretching machine                                                                                             -            -         -        -
2.5.5.5     Slip roll former                                                                                                             -            -         -        -
2.5.5.6     Stationary sander                                                                                                           2b            a         -        -

                                                               26                                                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                              General STS
                                                                                                                  CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014

                                                                  2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                  Tasks                                                        Note)
                                                                   A       B        A       B        C        D       E             A            B         C       C
                                                                                                                               3 Skill Level   5 Skill   7 Skill 7 Skill
             1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      Level     Level Level
                                                                 5 Level 7 Level   Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier        (1)           (2)       (1)     (2)
                                                                                   Start Complete Initials Initials Initials      Course        CDC      Course CDC


2.5.5.7      Dimpling machine                                                                                                       -            -         -        -
2.5.5.8      Drill press                                                                                                           1a            a         -        -
2.5.5.9      Stationary grinder                                                                                                    2b            a         -        -
2.5.5.10     Rotary (turret) punch                                                                                                 1a            -         -        -
2.5.5.11     Brakes
2.5.5.11.1   Box and pan                                                                                                           1a            a         -        -
2.5.5.11.2   Cornice                                                                                                               1a            a         -        -
2.5.5.11.3   Power                                                                                                                  -            -         -        -
2.5.5.11.4   Press                                                                                                                  -            -         -        -
2.5.5.12     Shears
2.5.5.12.1   Foot                                                                                                                  2b            a         -        -
2.5.5.12.2   Power                                                                                                                 2b            a         -        -
2.5.5.12.3   Scroll                                                                                                                1b            a         -        -
2.5.5.12.4   Throatless                                                                                                             -            a         -        -
2.5.6        Coating application equipment
2.5.6.1      Use film gauge, dry                                                                                                    -           b          -        -
2.5.6.2      Use film gauge, wet                                                                                                   2b           b          -        -
2.5.6.3      Paint booth                                                                                                            -           -          -        -
2.5.6.4      Paint shaker (agitator)                                                                                               2b           b          -        -
2.5.6.5      Recovery still (chemical distillation)                                                                                 -           -          -        -
2.5.6.6      Spray gun cleaning unit                                                                                               2b           B          -        -
2.5.6.7      Spray equipment troubleshooting                                                                                       B            B          -        -
2.5.6.8      Spray pattern defects                                                                                                 B            B          -        -
2.5.6.9      Sempens                                                                                                               A            A          -        -
2.5.6.10     Brushes                                                                                                               A            A          -        -
2.5.6.11     Use rollers                                                                                                           2b           b          -        -
2.5.6.12     High volume low pressure
2.5.6.12.1   Use                                                   *                                                               2b            b         -        -
2.5.6.12.2   Maintain                                              *                                                               2b            b         -        -
2.5.6.13     Pneumatic compactor                                                                                                    -            -         -        -
2.5.6.14     Pressure pots
2.5.6.14.1   Fundamentals                                                                                                           A            B         -        -
2.5.6.14.2   Use                                                                                                                    -            -         -        -
2.5.6.14.3   Maintain                                                                                                               -            -         -        -
2.5.7        Use composite equipment
2.5.7.1      Heat gun                                                                                                               -            -         -        -
2.5.7.2      Hot air gun (Nitrogen)                                *                                                               2b            b         -        -
2.5.7.3      Hot air module                                                                                                         -            -         -        -
2.5.7.4      Hot bonder
2.5.7.4.1    Program hot bonder                                                                                                    2b            b         -        -
2.5.7.4.2    Weld thermocouples                                                                                                    2b            a         -        -
2.5.7.5      Oven
2.5.7.5.1    Curing                                                                                                                 -            b         -        -
2.5.7.5.2    Vacuum system                                                                                                          -            -         -        -


                                                            27                                                                          Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                        General STS
                                                                                                                      CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014

                                                                      2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                      Tasks                                                        Note)
                                                                       A       B        A       B        C        D       E             A            B         C       C
                                                                                                                                   3 Skill Level   5 Skill   7 Skill 7 Skill
            1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                           Level     Level Level
                                                                     5 Level 7 Level   Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier        (1)           (2)       (1)     (2)
                                                                                       Start Complete Initials Initials Initials      Course        CDC      Course CDC


2.5.8       Use tubing equipment
2.5.8.1     Flaring machines
2.5.8.1.1   Double                                                                                                                      -            -         -        -
2.5.8.1.2   Single                                                                                                                      -            -         -        -
2.5.8.2     Tube benders
2.5.8.2.1   Computer Numeric Control CNC                                                                                                -            -         -        -
2.5.8.2.2   Hand                                                                                                                        -            -         -        -
2.5.8.2.3   Hydraulic                                                                                                                   -            a         -        -
2.5.8.2.4   Production tubing bender                                                                                                   1b            a         -        -
2.6         TECHNICAL PUBLICATIONS
            ELECTRONIC AND/OR MANUAL
            TR: AFIND 0-2, TOs 00-5-1, 00-20 series,1-1-8,
            1-1-24, 1-1-690, 1-1-691, 1-1-694, 1-1A-1 series,
            -3, -4,-6, -23 series and OMMS TOs

2.6.1       Use                                                        *                                                               2b            b         -        -
2.6.2       Maintenance                                                *                                                               2b            b         -        -
2.6.3       Illustrated parts breakdown                                                                                                2b            b         -        -
2.6.4       TO improvement procedures                                                                                                   -            b         -        -
2.7         AIRCRAFT CONSTRUCTION FAMILIARIZATION
            TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
2.7.1       Conventional (metal)                                                                                                        A           A          -        -
2.7.2       Low observable (LO) aircraft                                                                                                A           B          -        -
2.8         STRUCTURAL INSPECTION
            TR: TOs 1-1-690, 1-1-691, 1-1-694, and -3, -6 and
            -23 series TOs
2.8.1       Perform inspection for corrosion and structural damage
2.8.1.1     Surface                                                                                                                    2b            b         -        -
2.8.1.2     Internal structures                                                                                                        2b            b         -        -
2.8.1.3     Optical micrometer                                                                                                          -            -         -        -
2.8.1.4     Pit depth gauge                                            *                                                               2b            b         -        -
2.8.2       Classify damage
2.8.2.1     Metal structures                                                                                                           1a            b         -        -
2.8.2.2     Composites                                                 *                                                               1a            b         -        -
2.8.2.3     Transparent plastics                                                                                                        -            b         -        -
2.8.2.4     Determine repair procedures                                        *                                                        -            b         -        -
2.9         DOCUMENTATION
            TR: AFMAN 23-110; TOs 00-20-1 & -7, 34-1-3
2.9.1       Use forms
2.9.1.1     Documents aircraft maintenance                             *                                                               2b            b         -        -
            (electronic and/or manual)
2.9.1.2     AFTO 95                                                                                                                     -            a         -        -
2.9.1.3     AFTO 244 series                                            *                                                               2b            b         -        -
2.9.1.4     AFTO 350                                                   *                                                               2b            b         -        -
2.9.1.5     DD Form 1577 series                                                *                                                        -            -         -        -


                                                                28                                                                          Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                            General STS
                                                                                                                        CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014

                                                                        2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                        Tasks                                                        Note)
                                                                         A       B        A       B        C        D       E             A            B         C       C
                                                                                                                                     3 Skill Level   5 Skill   7 Skill 7 Skill
             1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                            Level     Level Level
                                                                       5 Level 7 Level   Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier        (1)           (2)       (1)     (2)
                                                                                         Start Complete Initials Initials Initials      Course        CDC      Course CDC


2.9.2        Process Control Automated Management Systems                                                                                 -            -         -        -
             (PCAMS)
2.9.3        Use Integrated Maintenance Data System (IMDS)
             TR: AFCSM 21 Series; TO 00-20 Series,
             applicable -6 TOs
2.9.3.1      Open discrepancies                                                                                                           -            -         -        -
2.9.3.2      Close discrepancies                                                                                                          -            -         -        -
2.9.3.3      Access applicable IMDS menus and data screens                                                                                -            -         -        -
2.9.3.4      Use IMDS supply interface (SBSS)                                                                                             -            -         -        -
2.10         CORROSION PREVENTION AND CONTROL
             TR: AFOSH STDs 91-17, TOs 1-1-8, 1-1-24, 1-1-690,
             1-1-691, 1-1-694, and applicable -3, -23, or equivalent
             series TOs and AFI 21-101
2.10.1       Corrosion principles
2.10.1.1     Theory                                                                                                                       B            B         -        -
2.10.1.2     Types                                                                                                                        B            B         -        -
2.10.1.3     Factors affecting corrosion                                                                                                  B            B         -        -
2.10.2       Corrosion prevention compounds                                                                                               A            B         -        -
2.10.3       Corrosion treatment
2.10.3.1     Apply passivation chemicals                                                                                                 2b            a         -        -
2.10.3.2     Remove corrosion (mechanical)                                                                                               2b            a         -        -
2.10.3.3     Remove corrosion (chemical)                                                                                                  -            a         -        -
2.10.4       Protective coating (non LO)
2.10.4.1     Score support equipment coating                                                                                              -           -          -        -
2.10.4.2     Scoring fundamentals                                                                                                        A            A          -        -
2.10.4.3     Prepare surface                                             *                                                               2b           b          -        -
2.10.4.4     Prepare coating                                             *                                                               2b           b          -        -
2.10.4.5     Apply coating                                               *                                                               2b           b          -        -
2.10.4.6     Apply tapes, boots, and protective films                                                                                     -           -          -        -
2.10.4.7     Remove tapes, boots, and protective films                                                                                    -           -          -        -
2.10.5       Remove coating (non LO)
2.10.5.1     Dry abrasive blasting                                                                                                       2b            b         -        -
2.10.5.2     Mechanical sanding                                          *                                                               2b            b         -        -
2.10.5.3     Chemicals removal                                                                                                            -            b         -        -
2.10.5.4     Media blasting booth                                                                                                        2b            b         -        -
2.10.5.5     Media blasting cabinet                                                                                                      2b            b         -        -
2.10.5.6     Sanding booth                                                                                                                -            -         -        -
2.10.6       Structural sealing
2.10.6.1     Prepare sealants                                            *                                                               1a            a         -        -
2.10.6.2     Use sealants                                                                                                                1a            a         -        -
2.10.7       Aircraft markings
2.10.7.1     Stencils
2.10.7.1.1   Manufacture                                                                                                                  -            b         -        -
2.10.7.1.2   Apply                                                                                                                        -            b         -        -
2.10.7.2     Decals

                                                                29                                                                            Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                              General STS
                                                                                                                         CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014

                                                                         2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                      Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                         Tasks                                                        Note)
                                                                          A       B        A       B        C        D       E             A            B         C       C
                                                                                                                                      3 Skill Level   5 Skill   7 Skill 7 Skill
               1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                           Level     Level Level
                                                                        5 Level 7 Level   Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier        (1)           (2)       (1)     (2)
                                                                                          Start Complete Initials Initials Initials      Course        CDC      Course CDC


2.10.7.2.1     Manufacture                                                                                                                 -            b         -        -
2.10.7.2.2     Apply                                                                                                                       -            b         -        -
2.10.7.2.3     Remove                                                                                                                      -            b         -        -
2.11           REPAIR, MODIFY, AND FABRICATE METAL
               PARTS AND ASSEMBLIES OF AIRFRAME
               STRUCTURES
               TR: TO 1-1A-1, 1-1A-8, 1-1A-9, 1-1-691, and
               applicable structural repair and corrosion control TOs
2.11.1         Identify metals                                                                                                            1a           b          -        -
2.11.2         Characteristics of metals                                                                                                  B            A          -        -
2.11.3         Interpret drawings                                                                                                         1a           a          -        -
2.11.4         Interpret blueprints                                                                                                        -           b          -        -
2.11.5         Develop layout for repairs                                                                                                 2b           b          -        -
2.11.6         Develop layout for parts                                                                                                   2b           b          -        -
2.11.7         Calculate shop mathematics                                                                                                 2b           b          -        -
2.11.8         Cut sheet metal                                                                                                            1a           b          -        -
2.11.9         Form metal parts
2.11.9.1       Machine form parts                                                                                                         1a            b         -        -
2.11.9.2       Hand form parts                                                                                                             -            -         -        -
2.11.10        Advanced repair concepts
2.11.10.1      Design molds                                                                                                                -            -         -        -
2.11.10.2      Form blocks
2.11.10.2.1    Design                                                                                                                       -           -         -        -
2.11.10.2.2    Manufacture                                                                                                                  -           -         -        -
2.11.11        Install and remove fasteners
2.11.11.1      Hole preparation                                           *                                                               2b            b         -        -
2.11.11.2      Blind rivets, pull thru                                                                                                    2b            a         -        -
2.11.11.3      Blind rivets, friction lock                                                                                                 -            -         -        -
2.11.11.4      Blind rivets, mechanical lock                                                                                              2b            a         -        -
2.11.11.5      Composi-Lok II                                                                                                              -            a         -        -
2.11.11.6      Eddie bolt                                                                                                                  -            a         -        -
2.11.11.7      Hi-lok                                                                                                                     2b            a         -        -
2.11.11.8      Hi-shear rivets                                                                                                             -            -         -        -
2.11.11.9      Hi-tique                                                                                                                    -            -         -        -
2.11.11.10     Huckrimp                                                                                                                    -            -         -        -
2.11.11.11     Jo-bolt                                                                                                                     -            a         -        -
2.11.11.12     Straight shank                                                                                                              -            a         -        -
2.11.11.13     Mechanical lock blind bolt                                                                                                 2b            a         -        -
2.11.11.14     Solid rivets                                                                                                               2b            a         -        -
2.11.11.15     Microshave rivets                                                                                                          2b            a         -        -
2.11.11.16     Turnlock fasteners
2.11.11.16.1   Airlock                                                                                                                     -            -         -        -
2.11.11.16.2   Camloc                                                                                                                      -            -         -        -
2.11.11.17     Nut plates



                                                                  30                                                                            Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                                General STS
                                                                                                                      CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014

                                                                      2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                      Tasks                                                        Note)
                                                                       A       B        A       B        C        D       E             A            B         C       C
                                                                                                                                   3 Skill Level   5 Skill   7 Skill 7 Skill
               1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                        Level     Level Level
                                                                     5 Level 7 Level   Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier        (1)           (2)       (1)     (2)
                                                                                       Start Complete Initials Initials Initials      Course        CDC      Course CDC


2.11.11.17.1   Riveted                                                 *                                                               2b            b         -        -
2.11.11.17.2   Bonded                                                                                                                   -            a         -        -
2.11.11.17.3   Clickbond nut plates                                                                                                     -            a         -        -
2.11.11.17.4   Coldworked nut plates                                                                                                    -            a         -        -
2.11.11.18     Aircraft bolts                                                                                                           -            a         -        -
2.11.11.19     Aircraft nuts                                                                                                            -            a         -        -
2.11.12        Remove defective screws                                 *                                                               1a            b         -        -
2.11.13        Perform metal skin repairs
2.11.13.1      Stop drill cracks                                                                                                        a            a         -        -
2.11.13.2      Cold work holes                                                                                                          -            b         -        -
2.11.13.3      Nonflush                                                                                                                2b            a         -        -
2.11.13.4      Flush                                                                                                                    -            a         -        -
2.11.13.5      Sealed structural                                                                                                       2b            a         -        -
2.11.13.6      Combination substructural member                                                                                         -            a         -        -
2.11.13.7      Reshape/blend damaged areas                                                                                             2b            b         -        -
2.11.13.8      Apply aerodynamic smoothing compound                                                                                     -            a         -        -
2.11.14        Trim and fit aircraft skins                                                                                              -            -         -        -
2.11.15        Install access doors
2.11.15.1      Latches                                                                                                                  -            -         -        -
2.11.15.2      Hinges                                                                                                                   -            -         -        -
2.11.15.3      Trim and fit access panels                                                                                               -            -         -        -
2.12           AIRCRAFT TUBING ASSEMBLIES
               TR: TO 1-1A-8, and applicable aircraft TOs and
               NAVAIR TO 42E1-1-1
2.12.1         Select components
2.12.1.1       Material                                                                                                                1a            a         -        -
2.12.1.2       Hardware                                                                                                                1a            a         -        -
2.12.2         Fabricate aircraft tubing assembly                                                                                      1a            a         -        -
2.12.3         MS (military standard) flare less fittings                                                                              1a            -         -        -
2.12.4         AN (Army Navy) flared fittings                                                                                          a             -         -        -
2.12.5         Repair
2.12.5.1       Permalite                                                                                                                a            a         -        -
2.12.5.2       Dynatube                                                                                                                 a            a         -        -
2.12.5.3       Permaswage                                                                                                               a            a         -        -
2.12.5.4       Ryngloc                                                                                                                  a            a         -        -
2.15.5.5       Visually inspect and evaluate tubing damage                                                                              -            b         -        -
2.13           COMPOSITE REPAIR FUNDAMENTALS
               TR: 1-1-690; applicable aircraft TOs
2.13.1         Identification of composite materials                   *                                                               A             B         -        -
2.13.2         Characteristics of composites                                                                                           A             B         -        -
2.13.3         Develop layout for composite repairs                                                                                    1b            a         -        -
2.13.4         Drilling and countersinking of composites                                                                               1b            b         -        -
2.13.5         Potted fastener hole repair                                                                                             1b            b         -        -
2.13.6         Trim and fit replacement components                                                                                      -            a         -        -


                                                                31                                                                          Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                            General STS
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014

                                                                   2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                   Tasks                                                        Note)
                                                                    A       B        A       B        C        D       E             A            B         C       C
                                                                                                                                3 Skill Level   5 Skill   7 Skill 7 Skill
          1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                          Level     Level Level
                                                                  5 Level 7 Level   Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier        (1)           (2)       (1)     (2)
                                                                                    Start Complete Initials Initials Initials      Course        CDC      Course CDC


2.13.7    Perform bonded fiberglass panel honeycomb core repair                                                                     1b            b         -        -
2.13.8    Solid laminate                                                                                                             -            b         -        -
2.13.9    Scarf repair                                                                                                              1b            b         -        -
2.13.10   Step repair                                                                                                                -            -         -        -
2.13.11   Overlap repair                                                                                                             -            -         -        -
2.13.12   Integral blade repair (L angle)                                                                                            -            -         -        -
2.13.13   Integral hat repair                                                                                                        -            -         -        -
2.13.14   Cut materials                                                                                                             1b            a         -        -
2.13.15   Drying                                                                                                                    1b            a         -        -
2.13.16   Ply orientation                                                                                                           1b            a         -        -
2.13.17   Vacuum bagging                                            *                                                               1b            b         -        -
2.13.18   Prepare liquid matrix                                                                                                     1b            b         -        -
2.13.19   Storage and handling                                                                                                      1b            b         -        -
2.13.20   Use prepreg materials                                                                                                     1b            b         -        -
2.14      GENERAL MAINTENANCE/PRODUCTION TEAM
          TASKS
          TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
2.14.1    Aircraft safe for maintenance                             *                                                               2b            a         -        -
2.14.2    Inspect/use ground maintenance stands                                                                                      -            -         -        -
2.15      LOW OBSERVABLE (LO) FAMILIARIZATION
          TR: TO 1-1-694 and applicable aircraft TOs
2.15.1    LO definition                                             *                                                                B            B         -        -
2.15.2    LO signature sources                                      *                                                                B            B         -        -
2.15.3    Radar definition                                          *                                                                B            B         -        -
2.15.4    Radar cross sections                                      *                                                                B            B         -        -
2.15.5    Signature reduction techniques                            *                                                                B            B         -        -
2.15.6    Inspection principles                                     *                                                                B            B         -        -
2.15.7    Radar Absorbing Structure (RAS)                           *                                                                B            B         -        -
2.16      LOW OBSERVABLE MATERIALS
          IDENTIFICATION
          TR: TO 1-1-694 and applicable aircraft TOs
2.16.1    Sealants                                                                                                                   B            B         -        -
2.16.2    Radar Absorbing Material (RAM)                                                                                             B            B         -        -
2.16.3    Fairing                                                                                                                    B            B         -        -
2.16.4    R-Card                                                                                                                     B            B         -        -
2.16.5    RAS                                                                                                                        B            B         -        -
2.16.6    Filler                                                                                                                     B            B         -        -
2.16.7    Conductive                                                                                                                 B            B         -        -
2.16.8    Non-conductive                                                                                                             B            B         -        -
2.16.9    Infrared                                                                                                                   B            B         -        -
2.17      WEAPON SYSTEM PROGRAM SECURITY
2.17.1    Communications Security (COMSEC)                                                                                           -            -         -        -
          TR: DOD 5200.1-R; AFI 21-109, 31-401; AFP 100-46;
          AF Security Classification Guide
2.17.2    Security procedures for Special Access Programs                                                                            -            -         -        -


                                                          32                                                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                         General STS
                                                                                                                  CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014

                                                                  2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                  Tasks                                                        Note)
                                                                   A       B        A       B        C        D       E             A            B         C       C
                                                                                                                               3 Skill Level   5 Skill   7 Skill 7 Skill
             1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      Level     Level Level
                                                                 5 Level 7 Level   Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier        (1)           (2)       (1)     (2)
                                                                                   Start Complete Initials Initials Initials      Course        CDC      Course CDC


2.18         IDENTIFY LO DEFECTS
             TR: 1-1-694 and applicable aircraft TOs
2.18.1       Sealants                                                                                                               a            b         -        -
2.18.2       RAM
2.18.2.1     Spray                                                                                                                  a            b         -        -
2.18.2.2     Sheet                                                                                                                  a            b         -        -
2.18.3       Fairing                                                                                                                a            b         -        -
2.18.4       R-Card                                                                                                                 a            b         -        -
2.18.5       Filler                                                                                                                 a            b         -        -
2.18.6       Conductive                                                                                                             a            b         -        -
2.18.7       Non-conductive                                                                                                         a            b         -        -
2.18.8       Infrared                                                                                                               a            b         -        -
2.18.9       Edge moldings                                                                                                          a            b         -        -
2.18.10      Top coat                                                                                                               a            b         -        -
2.19         REMOVE LO COATINGS
             TR: 1-1-694 and applicable aircraft TOs
2.19.1       Race tracking                                                                                                         2b            b         -        -
2.19.2       Planform alignment                                    *                                                               2b            b         -        -
2.19.3       RAM removal
2.19.3.1     Manual                                                                                                                2b            b         -        -
2.19.3.2     Pneumatic                                                                                                              -            -         -        -
2.20         LO COATING APPLICATION
             TR: 1-1-694 and applicable aircraft TOs
2.20.1       Layout
2.20.1.1     Use templates                                                                                                         2b            b         -        -
2.20.1.2     Use straight edge for cutting RAM                                                                                     2b            b         -        -
2.20.1.3     Use protractor for proper repair angles                                                                               2b            b         -        -
2.20.1.4     Conduct planform alignment                                                                                            2b            b         -        -
2.20.2       Prepare surfaces
2.20.2.1     Non-metallic                                                                                                          2b            b         -        -
2.20.2.2     Metallic                                                                                                               -            b         -        -
2.20.3       Apply material
2.20.3.1     Primer                                                                                                                2b            b         -        -
2.20.3.2     Conductive                                                                                                            2b            b         -        -
2.20.3.3     RAM
2.20.3.3.1   Adhesive                                                                                                              2b            b         -        -
2.20.3.3.2   Sheet                                                                                                                 2b            b         -        -
2.20.3.3.3   Spray                                                                                                                  -            -         -        -
2.20.3.3.4   Edge mold                                                                                                              -            b         -        -
2.20.3.3.5   Paste/caulk                                                                                                           2b            -         -        -
2.20.3.4     Fillers
2.20.3.4.1   Gaps                                                                                                                  2b            b         -        -
2.20.3.4.2   Fastener                                                                                                              2b            b         -        -
2.20.3.4.3   Fairing materials                                                                                                     2b            b         -        -


                                                            33                                                                          Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                        General STS
                                                                                                                  CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014

                                                                  2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                  Tasks                                                        Note)
                                                                   A       B        A       B        C        D       E             A            B         C       C
                                                                                                                               3 Skill Level   5 Skill   7 Skill 7 Skill
             1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      Level     Level Level
                                                                 5 Level 7 Level   Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier        (1)           (2)       (1)     (2)
                                                                                   Start Complete Initials Initials Initials      Course        CDC      Course CDC


2.20.3.5     Cure materials
2.20.3.5.1   Contact                                                                                                               2b            b         -        -
2.20.3.5.2   Noncontact                                                                                                            2b            b         -        -
2.20.3.6     Apply top coat                                                                                                        2b            b         -        -
2.21         CONDUCT LO PROCESS VERIFICATION
             TR: TO 1-1-694 & applicable AC TOs
2.21.1       Visual                                                        *                                                       2b            b         -        -
2.21.2       Step                                                          *                                                       2b            b         -        -
2.21.3       Gap                                                           *                                                       2b            b         -        -
2.21.4       Aerodynamic smoothness                                        *                                                       2b            b         -        -
2.21.5       Point inspection                                                                                                       a            b         -        -
2.21.6       Zonal radar imaging                                                                                                    a            b         -        -
2.22         GAP FILLING COMPOUNDS
             TR: TO 1-1-694 & applicable AC TOs
2.22.1       Removal procedures                                                                                                    2b            b         -        -
2.22.2       Surface preparation                                                                                                   2b            b         -        -
2.22.3       Application                                                                                                           2b            b         -        -
2.22.4       Skiving                                                                                                               2b            b         -        -
2.22.5       Smoothness verification                                                                                               2b            b         -        -
2.23         FAIRING COMPOUNDS
             TR: TO 1-1-694 & applicable AC TOs
2.23.1       Use fairing compounds                                                                                                 2b            b         -        -
2.23.2       Removal procedures                                                                                                    2b            b         -        -
2.23.3       Surface preparation                                                                                                   2b            b         -        -
2.23.4       Apply fairing compounds                                                                                               2b            b         -        -
2.23.5       Verify smoothness                                                                                                     2b            b         -        -




                                                            34                                                                          Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                        General STS
                                                                                                                        CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014

ATTACHMENT 3, (B-2)

NOTE 1: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 2: Items in column 2A/2B marked with an Asterisk (*) identify core tasks.
                                                                        2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                        Tasks
                                                                         A       B        A       B        C        D       E             A            B         C         C
                                                                                                                                     3 Skill Level   5 Skill   7 Skill   7 Skill
               1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                          Level      Level    Level
                                                                       5 Level 7 Level   Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier        (1)           (2)       (1)       (2)
                                                                                         Start Complete Initials Initials Initials      Course        CDC      Course     CDC


3.1            GAP FILLING COMPOUNDS
               TR: TO 1B-2A-2-51GS
3.1.1          Use conductive caulk                                      *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.1.2          Use silicone                                              *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.1.3          Use caulk                                                 *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.1.4          Evaluate damage                                           *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.1.5          Removal procedures                                        *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.1.6          Prepare surface                                           *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.1.7          Apply                                                     *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.1.8          Skiving                                                   *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.1.9          Verify smoothness                                         *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.2            CONDUCTIVE TAPES
               TR: TO 1B-2A-51GS
3.2.1          Evaluate damage                                           *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.2.2          Remove defective tape                                     *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.2.3          Prepare surface                                           *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.2.4          Apply adhesive                                            *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.2.5          Align tape                                                *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.2.6          Apply PSA tape                                            *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.2.7          Apply permanent tape                                      *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.2.8          Cure tape                                                 *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.2.9          Apply thin tape                                           *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.3            SPECIALIZED COATINGS
               TR: TO 1-1-8, 1-1-24, 1B-2A-2-14GS
3.3.1          Evaluate damage                                           *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.3.2          Removal procedures/racetracking                           *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.3.3          Primer application                                        *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.3.4          Roll masking                                              *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.3.5          Conductivity coatings
3.3.5.1        Conductivity reading requirements                         *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.3.5.2        Application procedures                                    *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.3.5.3        Smoothness requirements                                   *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.3.6          Anti-static coatings
3.3.6.1        Apply                                                                                                                      -            -         -         -
3.3.6.2        Smoothness requirements                                                                                                    -            -         -         -
3.3.6.3        Evaluate damage                                           *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.3.6.4        Conductivity reading requirements                                                                                          -            -         -         -
3.3.7          Rain erosion coating
3.3.7.1        Apply                                                                                                                      -            -         -         -
3.3.7.2        Smoothness requirements                                                                                                    -            -         -         -
3.3.7.3        Evaluate damage                                           *                                                                -            -         -         -


                                                                  35
                                                                                                                                    Attachment 3
                                                                                                                      Aircraft Specific STS (B-2)
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014

                                                               2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                            Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                               Tasks
                                                                A       B        A       B        C        D       E             A            B         C         C
                                                                                                                            3 Skill Level   5 Skill   7 Skill   7 Skill
          1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      Level      Level    Level
                                                              5 Level 7 Level   Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier        (1)           (2)       (1)       (2)
                                                                                Start Complete Initials Initials Initials      Course        CDC      Course     CDC


3.3.8     High temperature coatings
3.3.8.1   Application procedures                                                                                                 -            -         -         -
3.3.8.2   Smoothness requirements                                                                                                -            -         -         -
3.3.8.3   Evaluate damage                                       *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.4       RADAR ABSORBING STRUCTURE (RAS)
          TR: TO 1-1-690, 1B-2A-2-51GS
3.4.1     Evaluate damage                                                                                                        -            -         -         -
3.4.2     Remove damage                                                                                                          -            -         -         -
3.4.3     Repair lay-up                                                                                                          -            -         -         -
3.4.4     Inspect repair                                        *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.5       HOT TRAILING EDGE (HTE)/EXHAUST LIP
          CERAMIC MATRIX COMPOUND (CMC) TILE
          TR: TO 1B-2A-2-57GS
3.5.1     Evaluate tile damage                                                                                                   -            -         -         -
3.5.2     Remove HTE tile                                                                                                        -            -         -         -
3.5.3     Apply adhesive for HTE tile                                                                                            -            -         -         -
3.5.4     Install HTE tile                                                                                                       -            -         -         -
3.5.5     Cure HTE tile                                                                                                          -            -         -         -
3.5.6     Repair HTE using tile putty                           *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.5.7     Remove CMC tile                                                                                                        -            -         -         -
3.5.8     Apply adhesive for CMC tile                                                                                            -            -         -         -
3.5.9     Install CMC tile                                                                                                       -            -         -         -
3.5.10    Cure CMC tile                                                                                                          -            -         -         -
3.5.11    Repair CMC using tile putty                           *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.5.12    Repair CMC tile fairing material                                                                                       -            -         -         -
3.5.13    Evaluate CMC/HTE bond line                                    *                                                        -            -         -         -
3.6       TAIL PIPE
          TR: TO 16W14-7-2, 1B-2A-2-14GS
3.6.1     Evaluate damage                                       *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.6.2     Remove damage                                                                                                          -            -         -         -
3.6.3     Prepare material                                                                                                       -            -         -         -
3.6.4     Apply material                                                                                                         -            -         -         -
3.6.5     Verify repair                                                 *                                                        -            -         -         -
3.6.6     Evaluate bond arc coating                                                                                              -            -         -         -
3.6.7     Repair bond arc coating                                                                                                -            -         -         -
3.7       SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
          TR: TO 1B-2A-2-50GS, 1B-2A-2-51GS
3.7.1     AOD jar mill                                                                                                           -            -         -         -
3.7.2     MAPPER                                                                                                                 -            -         -         -
3.7.3     Gloss meter                                                                                                            -            -         -         -
3.7.4     Loristta meter                                                                                                         -            -         -         -
3.7.5     Magnetic stirrer                                                                                                       -            -         -         -
3.7.6     Tier 3 measurement shrouds                                                                                             -            -         -         -
3.7.7     Radial lock gun                                                                                                        -            -         -         -
3.7.8     Tape cutting machine                                  *                                                                -            -         -         -

                                                         36
                                                                                                                           Attachment 3
                                                                                                             Aircraft Specific STS (B-2)
                                                                                                                CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014

                                                                2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                             Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                Tasks
                                                                 A       B        A       B        C        D       E             A            B         C         C
                                                                                                                             3 Skill Level   5 Skill   7 Skill   7 Skill
           1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      Level     Level     Level
                                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier        (1)           (2)       (1)       (2)
                                                                                 Start Complete Initials Initials Initials      Course        CDC      Course     CDC


3.7.9      Thermal generator                                             *                                                        -            -         -         -
           TR: TO 33A-1-8-90-1
3.7.10     Vacuum heat table                                                                                                      -            -         -         -
3.8        Copper mesh familiarization                                                                                            -            -         -         -
           TR: TO 1B-2A-2-57GS
3.9        Stub seal removal/replacement                                                                                          -            -         -         -
           TR: TO 1B-2A-2-57GS
3.10       Blade seal replacement                                                                                                 -            -         -         -
           TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
3.11       LIGHTNING STRIKE PATCH
           TR: TO 1B-2A-2-57GS

3.11.1     Familiarization                                       *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.11.2     Damage evaluation                                     *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.11.3     Repair                                                                                                                 -            -         -         -
3.11.4     Removal                                                                                                                -            -         -         -
3.11.5     Application                                                                                                            -            -         -         -
3.12       Prepare Engineer Support Request (ESR)                                                                                 -            -         -         -
3.13       Perform LO coating assessment                                                                                          -            -         -         -
3.14       KAPTON
           TR: TO 1B-2A-2-57GS
3.14.1     Evaluate damage                                       *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.14.2     Removal procedures                                                                                                     -            -         -         -
3.14.3     Surface preparation                                                                                                    -            -         -         -
3.14.4     Application procedures                                                                                                 -            -         -         -
3.14.5     Resistivity check                                             *                                                        -            -         -         -
3.15       ADVANCED HIGH FREQUENCY MATERIAL
           (AHFM)
3.15.1     Evaluate damage                                       *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.15.2     Removal procedures                                    *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.15.3     Surface preparation                                   *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.15.4     Application procedures                                *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.16       IRON FILLED ELASTOMER
           TR: TO 1B-2A-2-57GS
3.16.1     Evaluate damage                                       *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.16.2     Removal procedures                                    *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.16.3     Surface preparation                                   *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.16.4     Application procedures                                *                                                                -            -         -         -
3.17       B-2 SIGNATURE VERIFICATION TIERS
           TR: TO 1B-2A-2-50GS

3.17.1     Signature diagnostic systems
3.17.1.1   Inspection management system (IMS)/manage defects                                                                      -            -         -         -
3.17.1.2   Close out defects                                                                                                      -            -         -         -
3.17.1.3   Upload MAPPER data files                                                                                               -            -         -         -
3.17.1.4   Generate prioritized maintenance report                                                                                -            -         -         -

                                                          37
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                                                                                               Aircraft Specific STS (B-2)
                                                                                                                 CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014

                                                                 2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                              Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                 Tasks
                                                                  A       B        A       B        C        D       E             A            B         C         C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level   5 Skill   7 Skill   7 Skill
            1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      Level     Level     Level
                                                                5 Level 7 Level   Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier        (1)           (2)       (1)       (2)
                                                                                  Start Complete Initials Initials Initials      Course        CDC      Course     CDC


3.17.1.5    Load/evaluate Tier 1 TOMIS inspection data                                                                             -            -         -         -
3.17.1.6    Upload Tier 2 data                                                                                                     -            -         -         -
3.17.1.7    Download lookup data for logger tool                                                                                   -            -         -         -
3.17.1.8    Process Tier 2 data                                                                                                    -            -         -         -
3.17.1.9    Defect analyzer                                                                                                        -            -         -         -
3.17.1.10   Upload Tier 3 data                                                                                                     -            -         -         -
3.17.1.11   Upload Tier 4 data                                                                                                     -            -         -         -
3.18        TAIL PIPE INSPECTION PROCESS –TECHNICAL
            ORDER EXPANSION (TIP TOE II)
            TR: TO 1B-2A-2-50GS
3.18.1      Inputting data                                                                                                         -            -         -         -
3.18.2      Recording data results                                                                                                 -            -         -         -
3.19        TIER ONE MATERIAL INSPECTION SYSTEM
            (TOMIS)
            TR: TO 1B-2A-2-50GS
3.19.1      General information                                                                                                    -            -         -         -
3.19.2      Equipment setup                                                                                                        -            -         -         -
3.19.3      Perform annual Anritsu calibration                                                                                     -            -         -         -
3.19.4      Use reflectometer                                                                                                      -            -         -         -
3.19.5      Use paint probe                                                                                                        -            -         -         -
3.19.6      Use VHF probe                                                                                                          -            -         -         -
3.19.7      Restoration                                                                                                            -            -         -         -
3.20        DIAGNOSTIC RADAR SYSTEM (DRS)
            TR: TO 33D7-44-377-1, 1B-2A-2-50GS, -00-1
            and owner’s manual
3.20.1      Operating genie lift                                                                                                   -            -         -         -
3.20.2      Servicing genie lift                                                                                                   -            -         -         -
3.20.3      Band 1 assembly                                                                                                        -            -         -         -
3.20.4      Band 2 assembly                                                                                                        -            -         -         -
3.20.5      Band 3 assembly                                                                                                        -            -         -         -
3.20.6      Band 1 calibration                                                                                                     -            -         -         -
3.20.7      Band 2 calibration                                                                                                     -            -         -         -
3.20.8      Band 3 calibration                                                                                                     -            -         -         -
3.20.9      DRS inspection setup                                                                                                   -            -         -         -
3.20.10     DRS data collection                                                                                                    -            -         -         -
3.21        AIRCRAFT FORMS
3.21.1      AF Form 781A                                                                                                           -            -         -         -
3.21.2      AF Form 781K                                                                                                           -            -         -         -




                                                           38
                                                                                                                              Attachment 3
                                                                                                                Aircraft Specific STS (B-2)
                                                                                                                        CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014

ATTACHMENT 4, (F-22)

NOTE 1: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 2: Items in column 2A/2B marked with an Asterisk (*) identify core tasks.
                                                                        2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                        Tasks                                                        Note)
                                                                         A       B        A       B        C        D       E             A            B         C         C
                                                                                                                                     3 Skill Level   5 Skill   7 Skill   7 Skill
               1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                          Level     Level     Level
                                                                       5 Level 7 Level   Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier        (1)           (2)       (1)       (2)
                                                                                         Start Complete Initials Initials Initials      Course        CDC      Course     CDC


4.1           LO DESIGN FEATURES
              TR: TO 1-1-169; F-22 TOD
4.1.1         Fixed skins, panels, doors
4.1.1.1       Filled gap                                                 *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.1.1.2       J-Seal                                                     *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.1.1.3       Form-In-Place seal                                         *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.1.2         Radar Absorbing Structure (RAS)
4.1.2.1       Integrated Fore Body (IFB)                                                                                                  -            -         -         -
4.1.2.2       Flight controls                                                                                                             -            -         -         -
4.1.2.3       Edges                                                                                                                       -            -         -         -
4.2           FILLERS
              TR: TO 1-1-694, F-22 TOD
4.2.1         Evaluate damage                                            *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.2.2         Locate panel perimeter location/zip cord                   *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.2.3         Remove                                                     *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.2.4         Mask                                                       *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.2.5         Apply                                                      *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.2.6         Smooth surface                                             *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.2.7         Cure                                                       *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.2.8         Structural adhesives
4.2.8.1       Apply                                                                                                                        -           -         -         -
4.2.8.2       Smooth surface                                                                                                               -           -         -         -
4.2.8.3       Cure                                                                                                                         -           -         -         -
4.3           RADAR ABSORBING MATERIALS (RAM)
              TR: TO 1-1-694, F-22 TOD
4.3.1         RAM sheet
4.3.1.1       Evaluate damage                                            *                                                                 -           -         -         -
4.3.1.2       Remove                                                     *                                                                 -           -         -         -
4.3.1.3       Layout and cut                                                                                                               -           -         -         -
4.3.1.4       Bond                                                       *                                                                 -           -         -         -
4.3.1.5       Cure                                                                                                                         -           -         -         -
4.3.1.6       Operate RAM disposal equipment                                                                                               -           -         -         -
4.3.2         RAM, spray
4.3.2.1       Application procedures                                                                                                      -            -         -         -
4.3.2.2       Curing procedures                                                                                                           -            -         -         -
4.4           PASTES
              TR: TO 1-1-694, F-22 TOD
4.4.1         5PTMRL07, Type B, Form 2
4.4.1.1       Application limitations                                    *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.4.1.2       Application procedures                                     *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.4.1.3       Sanding procedures                                         *                                                                -            -         -         -


                                                                  39
                                                                                                                                  Attachment 4
                                                                                                                   Aircraft Specific STS (F-22)
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014

                                                               2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                            Training/Information Provided (See
                                                               Tasks                                                        Note)
                                                                A       B        A       B        C        D       E             A            B         C         C
                                                                                                                            3 Skill Level   5 Skill   7 Skill   7 Skill
          1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      Level     Level     Level
                                                              5 Level 7 Level   Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier        (1)           (2)       (1)       (2)
                                                                                Start Complete Initials Initials Initials      Course        CDC      Course     CDC


4.4.1.4   Cure procedures                                       *                                                                 -           -         -         -
4.4.2     5PTMRL07, Type C, Form 2
4.4.2.1   Application limitations                                                                                                -            -         -         -
4.4.2.2   Application procedures                                                                                                 -            -         -         -
4.4.2.3   Sanding procedures                                                                                                     -            -         -         -
4.4.2.4   Cure procedures                                                                                                        -            -         -         -
4.4.3     5PTMRL07, Type G, Form 2
4.4.3.1   Application limitations                               *                                                                -            -         -
4.4.3.2   Application procedures                                *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.4.3.3   Sanding procedures                                    *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.4.3.4   Cure procedures                                       *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.4.4     5PTMRL07, Type I, Form 2
          Dielectric Paste
4.4.4.1   Application limitations                                                                                                -            -         -         -
4.4.4.2   Application procedures                                                                                                 -            -         -         -
4.4.4.3   Sanding procedures                                                                                                     -            -         -         -
4.4.4.4   Cure procedures                                                                                                        -            -         -         -
4.5       PRIMERS
          TR: TO 1-1-694, F-22 TOD
4.5.1     High temperature primer (5PTMRL23)
4.5.1.1   Application procedures                                                                                                 -            -         -         -
4.5.1.2   Curing procedures                                                                                                      -            -         -         -
4.5.2     Waterborne epoxy primer (5PTMRT03)
4.5.2.1   Application procedures                                                                                                 -            -         -         -
4.5.2.2   Curing procedures                                                                                                      -            -         -         -
4.5.3     Non-chromated epoxy primer
4.5.3.1   Application procedures                                                                                                 -            -         -         -
4.5.3.2   Cure procedures                                                                                                        -            -         -         -
4.5.4     Flexible polyurethane primer
4.5.4.1   Application procedures                                *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.5.4.2   Cure procedures                                       *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.5.5     Silicone primers (SS-4120, SS-4155, SS-4179)
4.5.5.1   Application procedures                                                                                                 -            -         -         -
4.5.5.2   Curing procedures                                                                                                      -            -         -         -
4.5.6     Silicone Adhesive Primer (DC 1200)
4.5.6.1   Application procedures                                                                                                 -            -         -         -
4.5.6.2   Curing procedures                                                                                                      -            -         -         -
4.5.7     Chromate epoxy primer
4.5.7.1   Application procedures                                *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.5.7.2   Curing procedures                                     *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.6       CONDUCTIVE COATING (5PTMRL04, Type I)
          TR: TO 1-1-694, F-22 TOD
4.6.1     Mask                                                  *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.6.2     Application procedures                                *                                                                -            -         -         -


                                                         40
                                                                                                                         Attachment 4
                                                                                                          Aircraft Specific STS (F-22)
                                                                                                                  CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014

                                                                  2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                  Tasks                                                        Note)
                                                                   A       B        A       B        C        D       E             A            B         C         C
                                                                                                                               3 Skill Level   5 Skill   7 Skill   7 Skill
          1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                         Level     Level     Level
                                                                 5 Level 7 Level   Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier        (1)           (2)       (1)       (2)
                                                                                   Start Complete Initials Initials Initials      Course        CDC      Course     CDC


4.6.3     Curing procedures                                        *                                                                 -           -         -         -
4.7       TOPCOATS
          TR: TO 1-1-694, F-22 TOD
4.7.1     IR polyurethane topcoat (5PTMRT01)
4.7.1.1   Application procedures                                   *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.7.1.2   Curing procedures                                        *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.7.2     Anti-static topcoat (5PTMRL17, Type I, II, III)
4.7.2.1   Application procedures                                                                                                    -            -         -         -
4.7.2.2   Curing process                                                                                                            -            -         -         -
4.7.3     High temperature topcoat (5PTMRL24)
4.7.3.1   Application procedures                                   *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.7.3.2   Curing procedures                                        *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.7.4     Teflon filled topcoat (5PTMRT08)
4.7.4.1   Application procedures                                   *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.7.4.2   Curing procedures                                        *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.7.5     Rain erosion topcoats (5PTMRL02, Type 1 and
          Type 2 materials)
4.7.5.1   Application procedures                                                                                                    -            -         -         -
4.7.5.2   Curing procedures                                                                                                         -            -         -         -
4.7.6     Exterior canopy coating (5PTMRL35)
4.7.6.1   Application procedures                                                                                                    -            -         -         -
4.7.6.2   Curing procedures                                                                                                         -            -         -         -
4.8       CANOPY
          TR: TO 1-1-694, F-22 TOD
4.8.1     Evaluate damage                                          *                                                                 -           -         -         -
4.8.2     Film repair                                              *                                                                 -           -         -         -
4.8.3     FX-345 canopy repair                                     *                                                                 -           -         -         -
4.8.4     V-612 silicone canopy adhesive
4.8.4.1   Application procedures                                   *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.8.4.2   Curing procedures                                        *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.9       SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
          TR: F-22 TOD; User’s guide
4.9.1     Turbo spray coating equipment
4.9.1.1   Operate                                                  *                                                                 -           -         -         -
4.9.1.2   Maintain                                                 *                                                                 -           -         -         -
4.9.2     Boot/washer cutter kit
4.9.2.1   Operate                                                                                                                    -           -         -         -
4.9.2.2   Maintain                                                                                                                   -           -         -         -
4.9.3     Boot hole cutter kit
4.9.3.1   Operate                                                                                                                    -           -         -         -
4.9.3.2   Maintain                                                                                                                   -           -         -         -
4.10      OUTER MOLD LINE INSPECTION
          TR: OML marking guide; F-22 TOD
4.10.1    Perform OML inspection                                   *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.10.2    OML damage marking                                       *                                                                -            -         -         -

                                                            41
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                                                                                             Aircraft Specific STS (F-22)
                                                                                                                  CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014

                                                                  2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                  Tasks                                                        Note)
                                                                   A       B        A       B        C        D       E             A            B         C         C
                                                                                                                               3 Skill Level   5 Skill   7 Skill   7 Skill
             1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      Level     Level     Level
                                                                 5 Level 7 Level   Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier        (1)           (2)       (1)       (2)
                                                                                   Start Complete Initials Initials Initials      Course        CDC      Course     CDC


4.10.3       Enter damages
4.10.3.1     Manual                                                                                                                  -           -         -         -
4.10.3.2     Automated (handheld)                                                                                                    -           -         -         -
4.11         AUDIT INSPECTION
             TR: OML marking guide; F-22 TOD
4.11.1       Perform audit inspection                                                                                               -            -         -         -
4.11.2       Verify damages                                                                                                         -            -         -         -
4.12         INTEGRATED MAINTENANCE INFORMATION
             SYSTEM (IMIS)
             TR: User’s guide
4.12.1       Functions of IMIS
4.12.1.1     Forms                                                 *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.12.1.2     Illustrated parts breakdown (IPB)                                                                                      -            -         -         -
4.12.1.3     Parts manager                                                                                                          -            -         -         -
4.12.1.4     Technical order data (TOD)                            *                                                                -            -         -         -
4.12.2       General
4.12.2.1     Portable Maintenance Aid (PMA)
4.12.2.1.1   Operate                                               *                                                                 -           -         -         -
4.12.2.1.2   Maintain                                                                                                                -           -         -         -
4.12.2.1.3   Security procedures                                                                                                     -           -         -         -
4.12.2.2     Maintenance support workcenter (MSW)
4.12.2.2.1   Operate                                               *                                                                 -           -         -         -
4.12.2.2.2   Maintain                                                                                                                -           -         -         -
4.12.2.2.3   Security procedures                                                                                                     -           -         -         -
4.12.3       Signature Assessment System (SAS)
4.12.3.1     View signature                                                                                                          -           -         -         -
4.12.3.2     Evaluate damages                                                                                                        -           -         -         -
4.12.3.3     Input damages                                                                                                           -           -         -         -
4.12.3.4     View priority screen                                                                                                    -           -         -         -
4.13         SAS MANAGEMENT
             TR: OML marking guide; F-22 TOD
4.13.1       Build reduction packages                                                                                                -           -         -         -
4.13.2       SAS reporting                                                                                                           -           -         -         -
4.13.3       SAS growth                                                                                                              -           -         -         -




                                                            42
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                                                                                             Aircraft Specific STS (F-22)
                                                                                                                        CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014

ATTACHMENT 5, (F-35)

NOTE 1: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 2: Items in column 2A/2B marked with an Asterisk (*) identify core tasks.
                                                                        2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                        Tasks                                                        Note)
                                                                         A       B        A       B        C        D       E             A            B         C         C
                                                                                                                                     3 Skill Level   5 Skill   7 Skill   7 Skill
               1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                          Level     Level     Level
                                                                       5 Level 7 Level   Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier        (1)           (2)       (1)       (2)
                                                                                         Start Complete Initials Initials Initials      Course        CDC      Course     CDC


5.1           LO DESIGN FEATURES
              TR: TO 1-1-694; applicable JTD
5.1.1         Fixed skins, panels, doors                                                                                                  -            -         -         -
5.1.2         Filler gap                                                                                                                  -            -         -         -
5.1.3         J-Seal                                                                                                                      -            -         -         -
5.1.4         Form-In-Place seal                                                                                                          -            -         -         -
5.1.5         Radar Absorbing Structure (RAS)                                                                                             -            -         -         -
5.1.6         Integrated Fore Body (IFB)                                                                                                  -            -         -         -
5.1.7         Flight controls                                                                                                             -            -         -         -
5.1.8         Edges                                                                                                                       -            -         -         -
5.2           GAP FILLERS (conductive and non-conductive)
              TR: TO 1-1-694; applicable JTD
5.2.1         Damage evaluation                                          *                                                                -            -         -         -
5.2.2         Removal procedures                                         *                                                                -            -         -         -
5.2.3         Masking procedures                                         *                                                                -            -         -         -
5.2.4         Mixing procedures                                          *                                                                -            -         -         -
5.2.5         Application procedures                                     *                                                                -            -         -         -
5.2.6         Surface smoothness requirements                            *                                                                -            -         -         -
5.2.7         Curing procedures                                          *                                                                -            -         -         -
5.2.8         Moldable plastic shim (EA-9377)
5.2.8.1       Application procedures                                                                                                      -            -         -         -
5.2.8.2       Surface smoothness requirements                                                                                             -            -         -         -
5.2.8.3       Cure procedures                                                                                                             -            -         -         -
5.3           FILLED ELASTOMERIC SHEET
              TR: TO 1-1-694; applicable JTD
5.3.1         Damage evaluation                                          *                                                                 -           -         -         -
5.3.2         Removal procedures                                         *                                                                 -           -         -         -
5.3.3         Layout and cutting procedures                              *                                                                 -           -         -         -
5.3.4         Application/bonding procedures                             *                                                                 -           -         -         -
5.3.5         Curing procedures                                          *                                                                 -           -         -         -
5.3.6         Low temp
5.3.6.1       Application/bonding procedures                             *                                                                 -           -         -         -
5.3.6.2       Curing procedures                                          *                                                                 -           -         -         -
5.3.7         Moderate temp
5.3.7.1       Application/bonding procedures                             *                                                                 -           -         -         -
5.3.7.2       Curing procedures                                          *                                                                 -           -         -         -
5.3.8         Filled elastomeric PSA tape
5.3.8.1       Removal                                                    *                                                                 -           -         -         -
5.3.8.2       Application                                                *                                                                 -           -         -         -
5.4           PASTES (low temp & mod temp)
              TR: TO 1-1-694; applicable JTD
                                                                  43
                                                                                                                        Attachment 5
                                                                                                                 Aircraft Specific STS (F35)
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014

                                                               2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                            Training/Information Provided (See
                                                               Tasks                                                        Note)
                                                                A       B        A       B        C        D       E             A            B         C         C
                                                                                                                            3 Skill Level   5 Skill   7 Skill   7 Skill
          1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      Level     Level     Level
                                                              5 Level 7 Level   Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier        (1)           (2)       (1)       (2)
                                                                                Start Complete Initials Initials Initials      Course        CDC      Course     CDC


5.4.1     Application procedures                                *                                                                -            -         -         -
5.4.2     Sanding Procedures                                    *                                                                -            -         -         -
5.4.3     Curing procedures                                     *                                                                -            -         -         -
5.5       PRIMERS
          TR: TO 1-1-694; applicable JTD
5.5.1     High temperature primer
5.5.1.1   Application procedures                                                                                                 -            -         -         -
5.5.1.2   Curing procedures                                                                                                      -            -         -         -
5.5.2     Waterborne epoxy primer
5.5.2.1   Application procedures                                *                                                                -            -         -         -
5.5.2.2   Curing procedures                                     *                                                                -            -         -         -
5.5.3     Non-chromated epoxy primer
5.5.3.1   Application procedures                                                                                                 -            -         -         -
5.5.3.2   Curing procedures                                                                                                      -            -         -         -
5.5.4     Flexible polyurethane primer
5.5.4.1   Application procedures                                *                                                                -            -         -         -
5.5.4.2   Curing procedures                                     *                                                                -            -         -         -
5.5.5     Adhesion promoter
5.5.5.1   Application procedures                                                                                                 -            -         -         -
5.5.5.2   Curing procedures                                                                                                      -            -         -         -
5.5.6     Silicone sealant primer
5.5.6.1   Application procedures                                                                                                 -            -         -         -
5.5.6.2   Curing procedures                                                                                                      -            -         -         -
5.6       FIBERMAT
          TR: TO 1-1-694; applicable JTD
5.6.1     Removal                                               *                                                                -            -         -         -
5.6.2     Application procedures                                *                                                                -            -         -         -
5.6.3     Curing procedures                                     *                                                                -            -         -         -
5.6.4     Paste repair procedures                               *                                                                -            -         -         -
5.7       TOPCOATS
          TR: TO 1-1-694; applicable JTD
5.7.1     Anti-static topcoat
5.7.1.1   Application procedures                                                                                                 -            -         -         -
5.7.1.2   Curing process                                                                                                         -            -         -         -
5.7.2     High temperature topcoat
5.7.2.1   Application procedures                                                                                                 -            -         -         -
5.7.2.2   Curing process                                                                                                         -            -         -         -
5.7.3     Teflon filled topcoat
5.7.3.1   Application procedures                                                                                                 -            -         -         -
5.7.3.2   Curing process                                                                                                         -            -         -         -
5.7.4     Rain erosion coatings (base-coat/tie-coats)
5.7.4.1   Application procedures                                                                                                 -            -         -         -
5.7.4.2   Curing process                                                                                                         -            -         -         -
5.7.5     Exterior canopy boot/skirt

                                                         44
                                                                                                               Attachment 5
                                                                                                        Aircraft Specific STS (F35)
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014

                                                               2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                            Training/Information Provided (See
                                                               Tasks                                                        Note)
                                                                A       B        A       B        C        D       E             A            B         C         C
                                                                                                                            3 Skill Level   5 Skill   7 Skill   7 Skill
          1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      Level     Level     Level
                                                              5 Level 7 Level   Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier        (1)           (2)       (1)       (2)
                                                                                Start Complete Initials Initials Initials      Course        CDC      Course     CDC


5.7.5.1   Application procedures                                                                                                 -            -         -         -
5.7.5.2   Curing procedures                                                                                                      -            -         -         -
5.7.6     Corrosion resistant topcoat
5.7.6.1   Roll/brush application procedures                                                                                       -           -         -         -
5.7.6.2   Curing process                                                                                                          -           -         -         -
5.8       TRANSPARENCY
          TR: TO 1-1-694; applicable JTD
5.8.1     Inspection/damage evaluation                                                                                            -           -         -         -
5.8.2     Transparency repair material
5.8.2.1   Application limitations                                                                                                -            -         -         -
5.8.2.2   Application procedures                                                                                                 -            -         -         -
5.8.2.3   Curing procedures                                                                                                      -            -         -         -
5.8.3     Lens repair material
5.8.3.1   Application limitations                                                                                                -            -         -         -
5.8.3.2   Application procedures                                                                                                 -            -         -         -
5.8.3.3   Curing procedures                                                                                                      -            -         -         -
5.9       OPERATE LOW OBSERVABLE HEALTH
          ASSESSMENT SYSTEM (LOHAS)
          TR: TO 1-1-694 ; applicable JTD
5.9.1     Evaluate and input outer mold line damages            *                                                                -            -         -         -
5.9.2     Generate CMMS work orders                             *                                                                -            -         -         -
5.9.3     Navigate LOHAS screens                                *                                                                -            -         -         -
5.10      PORTABLE MAINTENANCE AID (PMA)
          TR: TO 1-1-694; applicable JTD
5.10.1    Operation                                             *                                                                 -           -         -         -
5.10.2    Maintenance                                           *                                                                 -           -         -         -
5.11      FASTENER FILLER
          TR: TO 1-1-694; applicable JTD
5.11.1    Visual inspection                                     *                                                                -            -         -         -
5.11.2    Operation                                             *                                                                -            -         -         -
5.12      SPECIALIZED TOOLING
          TR: TO 1-1-694; applicable JTD
5.12.1    Tool set edge, seal hole cutter kit                                                                                    -            -         -         -
5.12.2    Permalite                                             *                                                                -            -         -         -
5.13      BOOT GASKET/SEALS
          TR: TO 1-1-694; applicable JTD
5.13.1    Use low temp                                                                                                            -           -         -         -
5.13.2    Perform damage evaluation                                                                                               -           -         -         -
5.13.3    Removal procedures                                                                                                      -           -         -         -
5.13.4    Application/bonding procedures                                                                                          -           -         -         -
5.13.5    Curing procedures                                                                                                       -           -         -         -
5.14      AUTONOMIC LOGISTIC INFORMATION SYSTEM
          (ALIS)/COMPUTER MANAGED MAINTENANCE
          SYSTEM NAVAGATION/USE
          TR: 1-1-694; and JTD

                                                         45
                                                                                                               Attachment 5
                                                                                                        Aircraft Specific STS (F35)
                                                                                                              CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014

                                                              2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided (See
                                                              Tasks                                                        Note)
                                                               A       B        A       B        C        D       E             A            B         C         C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level   5 Skill   7 Skill   7 Skill
         1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      Level     Level     Level
                                                             5 Level 7 Level   Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier        (1)           (2)       (1)       (2)
                                                                               Start Complete Initials Initials Initials      Course        CDC      Course     CDC


5.14.1   Create work order                                                                                                      -            -         -         -
5.14.2   Create solution                                                                                                        -            -         -         -
5.14.3   Create maintenance action                                                                                              -            -         -         -
5.14.4   Complete work order                                                                                                    -            -         -         -
5.14.5   Complete maintenance action                                                                                            -            -         -         -
5.14.6   Order parts/materials                                                                                                  -            -         -         -
5.15     Repair verification radar (RVR)                                                                                        -            -         -         -
         TR: 1-1-694; and JTD
5.16     MAINTAINER FABRICATED ENCLOSURE
         (MFE)/LOCAL ENCLOSURE
         TR: 1-1-694; and JTD
5.16.1   Assemble                                                                                                               -            -         -         -
5.16.2   Maintain environmental conditions                                                                                      -            -         -         -




                                                        46
                                                                                                              Attachment 5
                                                                                                       Aircraft Specific STS (F35)
                                                                                               CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014

NOTE 1: Columns 2 and 3 are deleted from this STS because all items are SUBJECT KNOWLEDGE LEVEL only and require
         no certification.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: This attachment is to be used in conjunction with other attachments in applicable CFETPs.
NOTE 4: Personnel must complete CDC requirements on all MDSs/attachments.
NOTE 5: Attachment is to be used as a correlation document for the 2AX7X 7-level Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman CDCs.
1. Tasks                                                                                         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                 Provided
Knowledge And Technical References                                                                  A          B           C
                                                                                                3-Skill Level 5-Skill Level    7-Skill Level
                                                                                                    (1)           (1)         (1)        (2)
                                                                                                   Crse           CDC         Crse      CDC

AA.1.          MAINTENANCE PHILOSOPHY AND POLICY                                                                                          A
AA.1.1.        Aircraft and Equipment Readiness
               TR: AFI 21-101 and Repair Enterprise 21 Fact Sheet                                                                         A
               (https://acc.dau.mil/CommunityBrowser.aspx?id=32781
AA.1.2.        Maintenance Concept
                                                                                                                                          A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-129
AA.1.3.        Reliability and Maintainability (R&M)
                                                                                                                                          A
               TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-118 and TO 00-35D-54.
AA.1.4.        Operating Instructions (OI)
                                                                                                                                          A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 33-360
AA.1.5.        Support Agreements (SA)
                                                                                                                                          A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 25-201
AA.1.6.        Modification and Configuration Management
                                                                                                                                          A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.1.7.        Maintenance Information Systems (MIS)
                                                                                                                                          B
               TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-116, AFCSM 21-556 volume 2, and TO 00-20-2
AA.1.8.        Maintenance Performance Indicator Metrics and Health of the Fleet                                                          B
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-103
AA.1.9.        Personnel Utilization                                                                                                      A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.1.10.       Maintenance Repair Priorities
                                                                                                                                          A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.1.11.       Minimum Essential System Listing (MESL)                                                                                    A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-103
AA.1.12.       Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS), and AEF Reporting Tool (ART)
                                                                                                                                          A
               TR: AFI 10-201, AFI 10-244 and https://aefcenter.afpc.randolph.af.mil/
AA.1.13.       Historical Aircraft and Equipment Records                                                                                  A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and T.O. 00-20-1
AA.1.14.       Maintenance Scheduling Effectiveness
                                                                                                                                          A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.2.          MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION KEY LEADER RESPONSIBILITIES
AA.2.1.        Wing Commander (WG/CC)
                                                                                                                                          A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
AA.2.2.        Wing Vice Commander (WG/CV)                                                                                                A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
AA.2.3.        Maintenance Group Commander (MXG/CC)                                                                                       A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
AA.2.4.        Maintenance Group Deputy Commander (MXG/CD)                                                                                A
               TR: AFI 21-101


                                                             47
                                                                                                             Attachment 6
                                                                                                       STS – 2AX7X CDC
                                                                                              CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014

1. Tasks                                                                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                Provided
Knowledge And Technical References                                                                 A          B           C
                                                                                               3-Skill Level 5-Skill Level    7-Skill Level
                                                                                                   (1)           (1)         (1)        (2)
                                                                                                  Crse           CDC         Crse      CDC

AA.2.5.        MXG Superintendent (SUPT)                                                                                                A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.2.6.        Squadron Commander (SQ/CC) Responsibilities
                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.2.7.        Operations Officer and Maintenance Superintendent (MX SUPT) Responsibilities                                             A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.2.8.        Flight Commander/Flight Chief                                                                                            A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.2.9.        AMU OIC/Superintendent (SUPT)                                                                                            A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.2.10.       Section NCOIC
                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.2.11.       Production Superintendent (Pro Super)                                                                                    A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.2.12.       Expediter
                                                                                                                                        B
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.3.          FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS SQUADRON (MOS)
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
AA.3.1.        Maintenance Operations Flight (MOF)                                                                                      A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.3.2.        Maintenance Training Flight (MTF)                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 36-2232
AA.3.3.        Programs and Resources Flight                                                                                            A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.3.4.        Quality Assurance (QA) Flight
                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.4.          FUNCTIONS OF AIRCRAFT/HELICOPTER MAINTENANCE SQUADRON
               (AMXS/HMXS)
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
AA.4.1.        Aircraft Maintenance Unit (AMU)                                                                                          A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.4.2.        Aircrew and Maintenance Debrief Section
                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.4.3.        Aircraft Section
                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.4.4.        Specialist Section                                                                                                       A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.4.5.        Weapons Section                                                                                                          A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.4.6.        Plans, Scheduling and Documentation Section (PS&D)                                                                       A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.4.7.        Support Section
                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101




                                                              48
                                                                                                            Attachment 6
                                                                                                      STS – 2AX7X CDC
                                                                                                    CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014


1. Tasks                                                                                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                      Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                      Provided
Knowledge And Technical References                                                                       A          B           C
                                                                                                     3-Skill Level 5-Skill Level    7-Skill Level
                                                                                                         (1)           (1)         (1)        (2)
                                                                                                        Crse           CDC         Crse      CDC

AA.5.          FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE SQUADRON (MXS)
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
AA.5.1.        Accessories Flight                                                                                                             A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.5.2.        Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) Flight                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.5.3.        Armament Flight                                                                                                                A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.5.4.        Avionics Flight                                                                                                                A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.5.5.        Fabrication Flight
                                                                                                                                              A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.5.6.        Maintenance Flight
                                                                                                                                              A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.5.7.        Munitions Flight
                                                                                                                                              A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-201
AA.5.8.        Propulsion Flight                                                                                                              A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.5.9.        Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE) Flight                                                                      A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.6.          AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND RESPONSIBILITIES
AA.6.1.        Air Logistics Centers (ALC)
               TR: AFMCMD (Mission Directives) 406, 407 and 410.
               Located at: https://www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/pdl/afmc/md.htm, OO-
                                                                                                                                              A
               ALC Brochure located at: http://www.hill.af.mil/main/index.html, WR-
               ALC: http://www.robins.af.mil/units/402mw.asp and
               OC-ALC: http://www.tinker.af.mil/units/
AA.6.2.        Air Force Flight Test Center
               TR: AFMCMD 404 located at https://www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/pdl/afmc/md.htm
               and Flight Test Center Fact Sheet locate at:                                                                                   A
               http://www.edwards.af.mil/library/factsheets/factsheet_print.asp?fsID=6573&page= 1

AA.6.3.        Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Center (AMARC)
               TR: AFMCMD 415 located at:                                                                                                     A
               https://www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/pdl/afmc/md.ht m and
               http://www.dm.af.mil/units/amarc.asp
AA.7.          MAINTENANCE TRAINING
AA.7.1.        Types of Training
                                                                                                                                              A
               TR: AFI 36-2232 and the ETCA site located at: https://etca.randolph.af.mil/
AA.7.2.        Training Documentation
                                                                                                                                              A
               TR: AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101, and AFI 36-2201 (Vol. 1-6)
AA.7.3.        Special Certification Rosters                                                                                                  A
               ATR: AFI 21-101
AA.7.4.        Maintenance Qualification Program (MQP)                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101 and AFPD 10-9


                                                                 49
                                                                                                                  Attachment 6
                                                                                                            STS – 2AX7X CDC
                                                                                              CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014


1. Tasks                                                                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                Provided
Knowledge And Technical References                                                                 A          B           C
                                                                                               3-Skill Level 5-Skill Level    7-Skill Level
                                                                                                   (1)           (1)         (1)        (2)
                                                                                                  Crse           CDC         Crse      CDC

AA.7.5.        Training Forecast / Request
                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 36-2232 and AFI 21-101
AA.7.6.        Training Development Process
                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101, and AETCI 36-2601
AA.8.          PERSONNEL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
AA.8.1.        Capability Based Manpower Standard and Logistics Composite Model (LCOM)
                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFMAN 38-208 Volume 3, AFI 38-201, AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
AA.8.2.        Unit Manpower Document (UMD) and Unit Personnel Manpower Roster (UPMR)                                                   A
               TR: AFI 38-201, AFTTP 3-21.1 and AFI 36-2110
AA.9.          MAINTENANCE SUPPLY
AA.9.1.        Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS) Supply Support
                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
AA.9.2.        Readiness Spares Packages
                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
AA.9.3.        Consumables Management
                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101, AFTTP 3-21.1 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.9.4.        Equipment Items
                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101, AFTTP 3-21.1 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.9.5.        Special Purpose Recoverable Authorized Maintenance (SPRAM) Assets
                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and AFI 21-103
AA.9.6.        Supply Assets Requiring Functional Check, Calibration, or Operational Flight
               Programming                                                                                                              A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.9.7.        Precious Metals Recovery Program
                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFMAN 23-110
AA.9.8.        Supply Points
                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.9.9.        Local Manufacture
                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.9.10.       Repair Cycle Assets / Supply Management Products
                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 23-110 and AFI 21-101
AA.9.11.       Tail Number Bins (TNB)
                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.9.12.       Maintenance Repair / Supply Delivery Priorities                                                                          A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.9.13.       Classified Assets
                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and TO 00-20-1
AA.9.14.       Hazardous Materials
                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFMAN 24-204_IP, AFI 91-301, AFI 24-202, AFMAN 23-110
AA.9.15.       Supply Deficiency and Discrepancy Reporting                                                                              B
               TR: AFI 23-110 and AFI 21-101
AA.10.         TECHNICAL ORDER POLICY
               TR: TO 00-5-1, AFI 21-101, AFI 21-303
AA.10.1.       Use of Technical Orders (TO), TO Supplements and Publications
                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1

                                                             50
                                                                                                            Attachment 6
                                                                                                      STS – 2AX7X CDC
                                                                                                  CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014


1. Tasks                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                    Provided
Knowledge And Technical References                                                                     A          B           C
                                                                                                   3-Skill Level 5-Skill Level    7-Skill Level
                                                                                                       (1)           (1)         (1)        (2)
                                                                                                      Crse           CDC         Crse      CDC

AA.10.2.       Technical Order Update Process                                                                                               A
               TR: AFI 63-101
AA.10.3.       Technical Order Waivers
                                                                                                                                            A
               TR: AFI 63-101 and AFI 21-101
AA.11.         MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS ANDPROGRAMS
AA.11.1.       Cannibalization Program
                                                                                                                                            A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
AA.11.2.       Restricted Maintenance Areas                                                                                                 A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.11.3.       Red Ball Maintenance
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
AA.11.4.       Aircraft/Equipment Impoundment Program
                                                                                                                                            A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.11.5.       Maintenance Standardization and Evaluation Program (MSEP) Purpose and
               Inspection Types                                                                                                             B
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
AA.11.6.       Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Program
                                                                                                                                            A
               TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2232 and AFTTP 3-21.1
AA.11.7.       Dropped Object Prevention (DOP) Program                                                                                      A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.11.8.       Tool Management
                                                                                                                                            A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
AA.11.9.       Tool Accountability
                                                                                                                                            A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
AA.11.9.1.     Marking and Tool Identification                                                                                              A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.11.9.2.     Locally Manufactured, Developed, or Modified Tools and Equipment
                                                                                                                                            A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.11.9.3.     Lost Item/Tool Procedures
                                                                                                                                            A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.11.10.      Maintenance Recovery Team
                                                                                                                                            A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.11.11.      Aging Aircraft / Equipment Issues
                                                                                                                                            A
               TR: AFI 21-101, DoD 5010.12-M and DMSMS Guide Book (SD-22)
AA.11.12.      Quality Assurance Evaluators
                                                                                                                                            A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
AA.11.13.      Computer Applications
               TR: AF Portal, AF E-Publishing site, AF IT E-Learning site, Advanced Distributed
               Learning Services (ADLS) site, AF Center of Excellence for Knowledge
                                                                                                                                            A
               Management (AFKM) site, Defense Travel System (DTS) training site, Air & Space
               Expeditionary Force Center site and the AF Center for Electronic Distribution of
               Systems (AFCEDS) site
AA.11.14.      Mobility
               TR: AFTTP 3-21.1, AFI 10-403, AFI 21-101, and the AFPAM 10-100 (Airman’s                                                     A
               Manual)

                                                               51
                                                                                                                Attachment 6
                                                                                                          STS – 2AX7X CDC
                                                                               CFETP 2A7X5, 1 Aug 2014


1. Tasks                                                                         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                 Provided
Knowledge And Technical References                                                  A          B           C
                                                                                3-Skill Level 5-Skill Level    7-Skill Level
                                                                                    (1)           (1)         (1)        (2)
                                                                                   Crse           CDC         Crse      CDC

AA.11.15.      Crashed Damaged or Disabled Aircraft Recovery (CDDAR) Program
                                                                                                                         A
               TR: AFI 21-101




                                                           52
                                                                                             Attachment 6
                                                                                       STS – 2AX7X CDC
