DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                      CFETP 1U0X1
Headquarters, United States Air Force                                                 Parts I-II
Washington, DC 20330-1480                                                     15 November 2009
                                                                                     Change 1



                   AFSC 1U0X1
Remotely Piloted Aircraft Sensor Operator (RPA SO)




                        CAREER FIELD
                 EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                           (CFETP)

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available on the e-publishing website at www.e-
publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.


RELEASIBILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                        CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                         RPA SENSOR OPERATOR
                                                  AFSC 1U0X1
                                               Table of Contents
PART I
  Preface                                                                                                             3
  Abbreviations/Terms Explained                                                                                       4
Section A - General Information                                                                                       8
  Purpose of the CFETP
  Use of the CFETP
  Coordination and Approval of the CFETP
Section B - Career Progression and Information                                                                        9
  Specialty Description
  Skill/Career Progression
        Apprentice 3-Level
        Journeyman 5-Level
        Craftsman 7-Level
        Superintendent 9-Level
  Training Decisions
  Community College of the Air Force
  Career Field Flow Charts
  Assignment Locations
Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements                                                                        18
  Purpose
  Specialty Description
       Apprentice 3-Level
       Journeyman 5-Level
       Craftsman 7-Level
       Superintendent 9-Level
Section D - Resource Constraints                                                                                     20
PART II
Section A - Specialty Training Standard                                                                              21
Section B - Course Objective List                                                                                    32
Section C - Support Materials                                                                                        33
Section D - Training Course Index                                                                                    33
Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements                                                                               33




__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
OPR: HQ USAF/A3O-ATA
Certified By: HAF A3O-AT (Col Luther S. Turner III)
Supersedes: 1 September 2009
Pages: 34
                                                         2
PART I

Preface
1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for this specialty. The CFETP will provide
personnel a clear career path to success and instill rigor in all aspects of career field training.
2. The CFETP consists of two parts; both of which are used by management to plan, manage, and
control training within the career field.
2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how everyone will use the plan; Section B identifies career progression information, duties
and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path; Section C associates each level with
specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, training, and other); Section D indicates resource
constraints. Some examples are funds, manpower, equipment, and facilities. Section E identifies
transitional training guide requirements for SSgt through MSgt. Note: Air Force Enlisted
Classification Directory (AFECD), and AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and
Enlisted), contain the specialty descriptions.
2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and
includes duties, tasks, and technical references to support training, Air Education and Training
Command (AETC) conducted training, and correspondence course requirements. Section B contains
the course objective list and training standards supervisors will use to determine if airmen satisfied
training requirements. Section C identifies available training support materials. Section D
identifies a training course index that is used to determine resources available to support training.
Included here are both mandatory and optional courses. Section E identifies MAJCOM unique
training requirements.
3. This CFETP is designed to ensure individuals in AFSC 1U0X1 receive comprehensive and
effective training at the appropriate phases of their career. At unit level, supervisors and trainers
use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.




                                                  3
ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED
Advanced Training (AT). Formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in one or
more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance their
expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career airmen at the advanced level of the AFS.
Aircrew Fundamentals Course (AFC). A course designed to screen candidates for the rigors of
enlisted crewmember duties prior to spending expensive follow-on training resources.
Aircrew Training System (ATS). A comprehensive listing of tasks and objectives to be trained
during formal training.
Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). Individual appointed by Air Staff Deputy Chief of
Staff to manage education, training, and resources for a specific career field(s).
Air Reserve Component (ARC). Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve units.
Basic Aircraft Qualification (BAQ). A crewmember who has satisfactorily completed initial
qualification training and is qualified to perform aircrew duties in the unit aircraft.
Basic Mission Capable (BMC). A crewmember who has satisfactorily completed mission
qualification training, does not maintain MR/CMR status, but maintains familiarization in the
command or unit operational mission.
Basic Qualification (BQ). A status of a crewmember who has satisfactorily completed the basic
training prescribed to maintain the skills necessary to operate the unit aircraft. The member must
perform at the minimum frequency necessary to meet the most recent sortie and flight standards set
for that weapons system.
Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP).                   A CFETP is a comprehensive,
multipurpose document encapsulating the entire spectrum of training for a specialty. It outlines a
logical growth path, including training resources, and is designed to eliminate duplication and make
training identifiable and budget defensible.
Center of Excellence (CoE). The cornerstone of all career enlisted aviator training, conducted at
Lackland AFB, TX. Provides undergraduate, initial skills training through award of the 3-skill level.
Combat Mission Ready (CMR). A crewmember who has satisfactorily completed mission
qualification training and maintains qualification and proficiency in the command or unit combat
mission.
Continuation Training (CT). Training for crewmembers already qualified in their respective crew
position to maintain their assigned level of proficiency. CT is designed to progressively improve
basic qualification, combat mission ready, basic mission capable, and crewmember’s ability to
perform the unit’s mission.
Core Task. A task AFCFMs identify as a minimum qualification requirement within an Air Force
specialty or duty position. Core Tasks for the AFS can be either task or knowledge based and are the
STS line items fundamental to meeting these core competencies. Each MAJCOM is responsible for
developing the minimum standard to which each core task will be trained. Core skills (or
knowledge) must be trained, maintained, and certified, regardless of duty position/location and are
based upon skill level.
Core Competencies. The mission of the U.S. Air Force is to defend the United States and protect
its interests through air and space power. To achieve that mission, the Air Force has a vision of
Global Vigilance, Reach and Power. That vision orbits around three core competencies: Developing
Airmen, Technology-to-Warfighting and Integrating Operations. These core competencies make our
six distinctive capabilities possible:




                                                  4
Aerospace Superiority: With it, joint forces can dominate enemy operations in all dimensions – land,
sea, air and space.
Global Attack: Because of technological advances, the Air Force can attack anywhere, anytime – and
do so quickly and with greater precision than ever before.
Rapid Global Mobility: Being able to respond quickly and decisively anywhere we’re needed is key to
maintaining rapid global mobility.
Precision Engagement: The essence lies in the ability to apply selective force against specific targets
because of the nature and variety of future contingencies demand both precise and reliable use of
military power with minimal risk and collateral damage.
Information Superiority: The ability of joint force commanders to keep pace with information and
incorporate it into a campaign plan is crucial.
Agile Combat Support: Deployment and sustainment are keys to successful operations and cannot be
separated. Agile combat support applies to all forces, from those permanently based to contingency
build-ups to expeditionary forces.
The Air Force bases these core competencies and distinctive capabilities on a shared commitment to
three core values – integrity first, service before self and excellence in all we do.
Course Objective Lists (COL). A publication, derived from the initial skills course training
standard, identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective standards provided to
achieve a 3-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to conduct graduate evaluations
in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Volume 3, Air Force Training Program On-the-Job Training
Administration.
Crew Resource Management (CRM). The effective use of all available resources, people, weapon
systems, facilities and equipment, and environment - by individuals or crews to safely and efficiently
accomplish an assigned mission or task. The term “CRM” is used to refer to the training program,
objectives, and key skills directed to this end.
Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in each skill-level of a specialty.
Exportable Training. Additional training via computer, paper, interactive video, or other
necessary means to supplement training.
Field Evaluation Questionnaire (FEQ). An extensive survey based on the CFETP to determine
how well the formal training met the apprentice levels outlined in the CFETP. This survey is sent
approximately 6 months after graduation to the Base Education and Training Manager, if
unclassified, or direct to the unit training manager, if classified.
Field Technical Training. Special or regular on-site training conducted by a field training
detachment (FTD), Formal Training Unit (FTU) or by a mobile training team (MTT).
Formal Training Unit (FTU). Name given to an AETC, Air Combat Command (ACC) or Air
Mobility Command (AMC) school conducting formal training.
Functional Manager. Individuals appointed by MAJCOMs to manage education, training, and
resources for an Air Force Specialty (MAJCOM Functional Manager or MFM).
Global Mobility Readiness Squadron (GMRS). An in-garrison organization which houses the
Force Protection, Intel, Air Traffic Control (ATC), Supply, Vehicle Maintenance, Contracting and
Finance UTC that when combined with GMS resources comprise the Contingency Response Group
(CRG). GMRS forces are primarily responsible for executing the Open the Airbase Force Module by
shaping the airbase environment to support air operations of any type.




                                                  5
Global Mobility Squadron (GMS). An in-garrison organization which houses the C2, Aerial Port,
MX, and Weather UTCs that when combined with the GMRS resources, comprise the CRG. GMS
forces are primarily responsible for executing the Open the Airbase Force Module by planning,
coordinating, and conducting initial airfield/air mobility support operations. The GMS may also
provide the core C2, Aerial Port, and MX capabilities for Contingency Response Element (CRE)
operations in support of Global Mobility.
Graduate Assessment Survey (GAS). Survey conducted in accordance with AFI 36-2201. Used by
recent graduates to evaluate the quality of formal training received and its applicability to their job.
The data is used to determine the effectiveness of, and need for changes in training.
Initial Qualification Training (IQT). Training necessary to initially qualify a crewmember in a
basic crew position and flying duties without regard to the unit’s operational mission. This is the
minimum requirement for BAQ.
Initial Skills Training. A formal school course that results in the award of a 3-skill level AFSC.
Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly, but flexible process for
planning, developing, validating, implementing, and reviewing instructional programs. It ensures
personnel are taught, in a cost efficient way, the knowledge and skills for successful job performance.
Lead Command. The lead command for this specialty is ACC. They establish standards, tasks,
and formal training requirements for both operations and maintenance, and are responsible for
updating training requirements and coordinating changes to the CFETP.
MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM). Primary focal point and liaison between the MAJCOM
and HQ USAF on all matters relating to the career fields and aviation resource management within
the command. This includes, but is not limited to, responsibility for the aircrew training programs,
coordination on aircrew resource allocations, and managing education, training, and resources for a
specific career field(s) for that MAJCOM.
Major Weapons Systems (MWS). For the purpose of this CFETP, MWS consists of all applicable
Remotely Piloted Aircrafts (RPA) platform with a crew complement including at least one 1U0X1.
Mission Capable (MC). Status of a crewmember who has satisfactorily completed mission
qualification training but who does not maintain mission ready status.
Mission Design Series (MDS). A term used to identify a specific aircraft designation (e.g., MQ-1,
RQ-9).
Mission Ready (MR). A crewmember who has satisfactorily completed mission qualification
training and maintains qualification and proficiency in the command or unit operational mission.
Mission Qualification Training (MQT). Training necessary to qualify a crewmember in a specific
crew position to perform the commands or units operational mission. MQT completion is a
prerequisite for mission ready status.
On-the-Job Training (OJT). A delivery method used to certify personnel in both upgrade (skill
level award) and job qualification (duty position certification) training. It is hands-on, over-the-
shoulder training conducted at the duty location.
Practicum. A means of receiving college credits through Community College of the Air Force
(CCAF) Teaching Technology Associates Degree Program for formal schoolhouse instructors. It
covers a wide variety of subjects beyond initial instructor qualification.
Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify a
crewmember in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the
upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skill/knowledge training
required to do a job.




                                                   6
Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and
equipment that preclude desired training from being accomplished.
Retraining. An Air Force objective to balance the career force of each AFSC as needed. The
retraining program allows individual Airmen a choice of career fields from which to pursue an Air
Force career and provides a method to return Airmen disqualified from their current AFSC to a
productive status.
Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force
Specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge, which an airman in that specialty may be expected to
perform or to know on the job. It further serves as a contract between AETC and the functional user.
It shows which of the overall training requirements for an AFSC are taught in formal schools and
exportable courses.
Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, established and defined by
authority, custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring quantities
or qualities, establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results. A fixed quantity or quality.
Subject Matter Expert (SME). An individual qualified in a particular specialty and who is
consulted with for his or her subject matter expertise or knowledge of the specialty.
Syllabus. Published outline of training required to achieve the proficiency specified in the course
training standards for a specific course. It prescribes the course content, instructions to conduct the
training, and the approximate time necessary to successfully complete all requirements. A formal
syllabus may be published to include IQT, MQT, CT, and other crew training as determined by the
training command, MAJCOM, or unit. (Formal and standardized syllabus are used primarily in
AETC formal or developed courses.)
Total Force. All collective Air Force components (active duty, reserve, guard, and civilian elements)
of the United States Air Force.
Unit Type Code (UTC). A UTC is a potential unit of capability focused on accomplishment of a
specific Air Force mission. It can consist of manpower (MFE) only, equipment (LOGDET) only, or
both.
Upgrade Training (UGT). Training that leads to the award of a higher skill level in an Air Force
Specialty.
Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum consisting of the AFCFM, MAJCOM
functional managers (MFM), Subject Matter Experts (SME), and AETC training personnel who
determines career field training requirements.
Weapons System Training Package (WSTP). An instructional course which includes IQT, MQT,
and CT designed for use at the unit to qualify or aid qualification in a duty position, program, or on a
piece of equipment. The WSTP may be printed, computer based, flying, simulator, or other
audiovisual material.




                                                   7
Section A - General Information
1. Purpose. This CFETP provides information necessary for the Air Force Career Field Manager
(AFCFM), MAJCOM functional managers (MFMs), commanders, training managers, supervisors,
and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective and efficient career field training
program. The plan outlines the training that individuals must receive in order to develop and
progress throughout their career. For the purpose of this plan, training is divided into four areas:
initial skills, upgrade training (UGT), qualification training (QT), and continuation training (CT).
Initial skills training is the Air Force Specialty specific training an individual receives upon entry
into the Air Force or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. Upgrade
training identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, and correspondence
course completion required for award of the 5-, 7-, and 9-skill levels. Qualification training is actual
hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an airman in a specific duty position. This
training program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to
provide the performance skills/knowledge training required for the job. Continuation training is
additional training either in-residence or exportable advanced training courses, or on-the-job
training, provided to personnel to maintain their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum
required. The CFETP has several purposes, some are:
1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field training
program. Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an
individual’s career.
1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in this specialty and
recommends training and education throughout each phase of an individual's career.
1.3. Lists courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and the training medium.
1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired specialty
training program.
2. Uses. The CFETP will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure comprehensive
and cohesive training programs are available and/or instituted for each individual in the specialty.
2.1. Training personnel will develop and revise formal resident, non-resident, and exportable
training based on requirements established by the user and documented in Part II of the CFETP.
The lead command MFM will work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining
resources needed to provide the identified training.
2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial and
upgrade skills requirements. Identified requirements can be satisfied by OJT, resident training,
contract training, or exportable courses. MAJCOM-developed training to support this AFSC must be
identified for inclusion in this plan and must not duplicate available training resources.
2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan. The
list of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.
2.4. Personnel in AFSC 1U0X1 are exempt from maintaining OJT Training Folders (AF Form 623).
All training is certified via AF Form 8 by trained evaluators. Certification of the AF Form 8
eliminates the requirement to document STS items in this CFETP.
3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is approval authority. Also, the AFCFM will
initiate an annual review of this document to ensure currency and accuracy. MAJCOM functional
managers and AETC training managers will identify and coordinate on the career field training
requirements. Using the list of courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training. Send any
applicable inputs/changes to this CFETP through MAJCOM the appropriate functional managers to
the following: HQ USAF/A3O-AT, 1480 Air Force Pentagon, Washington D.C. 20330-1480.




                                                   8
Section B - Career Progression and Information
4. Specialty Description
4.1. Specialty Summary. Operates RPA operations mission equipment, systems, electro-optical
sensor systems, and electronic protection (EP) equipment. Gathers, records, displays, and
distributes mission information. Interprets computer-generated displays and alarms. Performs and
assists in mission planning. Maintains publications and currency items. Maintains communications
nets with ground, air, and maritime units. Performs airborne operations functions under training
and operational conditions. Manages, supervises, trains, provides expertise, and evaluates activities.
Performs staff functions. Promotes and instills situational awareness in all aspects of airborne
operations.
4.2. Duties and Responsibilities.
4.2.1. Performs Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR), Basic Surface Attack (BSA)
using the precision guided munitions, and Close Air Support (CAS) using RPA operations mission
equipment. Performs mission planning, preflight, in-flight, and post flight duties according to
aircraft technical orders and applicable Air Force Instructions (AFIs). Identifies and maintains
surveillance of air, ground, and maritime objects. Performs pre-mission Ground Control Station
(GCS) Rack Configuration checklist, Gaining/Losing Handover checklists, and post-mission
inspections. Accomplishes pre-mission and post-mission records and reports. Performs operational
checks of sensor systems. Maintains status of air and ground activity. Coordinates with and
supports other airborne and ground platforms in distributing and relaying operational target and
identification data. Monitors radio communications. Coordinates mission profile requirements with
internal and external agencies.
4.2.2. Conducts unconventional/conventional warfare and special operations missions to include
CAS, interdiction, armed reconnaissance, combat search and rescue, and limited forward air control.
Monitors radio communications. Determines disposition and locations of hostile and/or friendly
forces by studying available intelligence data. Coordinates aircraft positioning to obtain optimal
performance of sensor systems to find, fix, track, target, engage, & assess (F2T2EA) enemy and/or
friendly forces. Fires RPA weapon systems during combat missions to ensure desired level of target
destruction. Performs real-time battle damage assessment and operates all mission video/audio
recording equipment.
4.2.3. Instructs, evaluates, and supervises RPA operations system activities. Conducts training for
RPA operations systems personnel. Develops and reviews instructional methods and procedures used
in IQT, UGT, and CT. Reviews training status and recommends remedial training. Evaluates
aircrew academic, simulation, and in-flight performances. Reviews trend analysis of flight
evaluations to identify training deficiencies. Supervises subordinates during the performance of their
duties. Reviews training status and arranges additional, remedial, and continuation training.
Conducts periodic inspections of aircrew operations and unit activities.
4.2.4. Performs staff functions. Performs staff duties at squadron level and above where RPA sensor
operator expertise is required.
4.2.5. Plans and organizes RPA sensor operator airborne command and control systems
apprentice/journeyman/craftsman activities. Develops and improves methods of personnel utilization
and aircrew operations economy. Advises commanders and staff officers of important changes and
developments in the mission operations area. Identifies problems affecting the capability and
efficiency of unit operations. Facilitates planning, organizing, and executing operational and training
missions. Revises personnel distribution within assigned mission functions. Determines mission
requirements and recommends operational procedures to meet worldwide contingency and
operational tasking. Reviews trend analysis of flight evaluations to identify training deficiencies.
Identifies and corrects faulty operational techniques.




                                                  9
5. Skill/Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to the
superintendent skill level play an extremely important role in the Air Force’s ability to accomplish
its mission. Therefore, it is essential that everyone involved in training do their part to plan,
develop, manage, conduct, and evaluate an effective and efficient training program. The guidance
provided in this part of the CFETP will ensure individuals receive viable training at the appropriate
points in their career. The following narrative and the AFSC 1U0X1 career field flow charts identify
the training career path. They define the training required in an individual’s career.
5.1. Apprentice 3-Level. Completion of the Aircrew Fundamentals Course (L3AQR1A411) at
Lackland AFB, TX is mandatory for non-prior service (NPS) and non-aviation service cross training
students. Completion of Basic Sensor Operator Course (BSOC) located at Randolph AFB, TX is
mandatory for award of the 3-skill level AFSC. Initial skills training requirements are identified and
revised (if necessary) annually during the 1U0X1 Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). Task
and knowledge requirements are identified in the STS, Part II, Sections A and B. Individuals must
complete an initial skills course to be awarded AFSC 1U0X1. Meeting mandatory requirements
listed in Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (Formally known as AFMAN 36-2108) specialty
description, completion of the Aircrew Fundamentals Course at Lackland AFB, TX and BSOC at
Randolph AFB, TX. Initial skills training in this specialty consists of the tasks and knowledge
training provided in the resident apprentice course located at either the MQ-1/9 Predator/Reaper
Sensor Operator FTU Initial Qualification Course at Creech AFB, NV, Holloman AFB, NM, and
March AFB, CA. Task and knowledge training requirements are identified in the specialty training
standard, Part II, sections A and B. After weapon systems qualification training is complete, the
trainee will work with the trainer to enhance their knowledge and skill. They will utilize the Career
Development Course (CDC) and Task Qualification Training and other exportable courses to
progress in the career field. Once evaluated, a trainee may perform the task unsupervised.
5.2. Journeyman 5-Level. Upgrade training to the 5-skill level in this specialty consists of: (1)
completing the Career Development Course 1U0X1 (when available); (2) completing duty position
tasks identified by the supervisor, and all core tasks in the STS through MQT/CT; (3) completing a
minimum of 12 months in 5-level OJT, (minimum of 9 months for re-trainees); (4) meet mandatory
requirements listed under the Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (Formally known as
AFMAN 36-2108); and (5) be recommended by their supervisor. SrA with 48 months in the Air
Force and SSgt selects will attend the Airman Leadership School (ALS) to prepare for supervisory
duties (AFRC: 42 months required for ALS in correspondence course). A Journeyman can expect to
fill various positions within and outside the unit. If they are instructor qualified, they may be used
in training flight, certified as an evaluator. For career broadening, individuals are encouraged to
apply for a Formal Training Unit (FTU) instructor position. Individuals will use CDC and other
materials to prepare for testing under WAPS. They should continue their education toward a CCAF
degree (CCAF/Associates degree or higher is required for all CCAF affiliated positions).
5.3. Craftsman 7-Level. Upgrade training to the 7-skill level consists of: (1) completing all 5/7-
skill level training requirements identified in the STS through MQT/CT; (2) be a SSgt select or
above; and (3) completing a minimum of 12 months in 7-level OJT (minimum of 6 months for re-
trainees). A craftsman can expect to fill various supervisory and management positions such as
flight chief and section chief. Individuals should take courses or obtain added knowledge on
management of resources and personnel. They are encouraged to continue academic education
through the CCAF and completing higher degree programs that complement the career field and
enhance their ability to do their jobs. In addition, TSgts and TSgt selects can attend the
Noncommissioned Officer Academy in residence course to broaden their leadership and supervisory
skills; in-resident completion is mandatory to assume the rank of MSgt. MSgt selects should
accomplish the USAF Senior NCO Academy Correspondence Course to prepare for increased
responsibility. Active duty MSgts who fail to obtain their CCAF associates degree, and fail to
complete the USAF Senior NCO Academy Correspondence Course severely hamper their prospects
for further promotion, thus are strongly encouraged to pursue these endeavors. ARC has the option
to accomplish these through in-residence or correspondence.



                                                 10
5.4. Superintendent 9-Level. Upgrade training to the 9-skill level in this specialty consists of
holding the grade of SMSgt, meeting mandatory requirements listed in Air Force Enlisted
Classification Direction (Formally known as AFMAN 36-2108), AFI 36-2101 specialty description,
and having supervisor’s recommendation. (ARC are required to complete SNCOA to be promoted to
SMSgt).     Superintendent can be expected to fill positions such as flight chief, operations
superintendent, and various staff positions through the MAJCOM level. Additional training areas
should include budget, manpower, resources and personnel management.                           Also,
personal/professional growth and development should be pursued through a variety of means, such
as books, voluntary career development courses, lectures, off-duty education, leadership seminars,
etc. Completion of professional courses aligned with the career field is strongly recommended.
5.5. Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM). CEM code is awarded when selected for promotion to Chief
Master Sergeant. In addition to performing duties normally associated with the operational aspects
of the AFSC, the CEM is directly responsible for: (1) management and supervision of all enlisted
personnel training and utilization within their specialty code and/or directorate of responsibility; (2)
directing performance standardization, qualification, skills training, professional development, and
enrichment, mentoring, and utilization of enlisted personnel; (3) performing evaluations of
individual and group performance in terms of effectiveness/efficiency in accordance with Air Force,
MAJCOM, and unit instructions/mission requirements; (4) interprets and discusses findings with
senior staff and recommends action to correct deficiencies; (5) directing day-to-day operations and
activities of personnel within their directorate; (6) resolving technical problems encountered during
mission operations; and (7) advising organizational senior leadership and staff agencies on issues
affecting mission accomplishment. Additionally, CEMs perform staff functions where aircrew
operational expertise is required. Additional education and completion of professional development
courses is also recommended and encouraged. CEMs can be expected to fill positions such as
squadron superintendent, operations group superintendent, section chief, detachment chief, PME
school commandant, functional manager, and various senior staff positions.
6. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple-to-complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Sensor Operator career field. This
CFETP was developed to include life-cycle (day one through retirement) training requirements for
this specialty. The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet the training
requirements. The strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce duplication of training and
eliminate a disjointed approach to training. The following training decisions were made at the
1U0X1 RPA Sensor Operator Career Field Stand-Up Working Group, held at Randolph AFB, Texas
in June 2009.
6.1. Initial Skills Training. Significant changes were made in initial skills training. The STS was
changed to include Aircrew Fundamentals Course and define common core training required for the
1U0X1 AFSC.
6.2. Five Level Upgrade Training. The Aircrew Fundamentals, 1U051 CDC was added as a pre-
requisite volume prior to starting the AFSC 1U051 CDC. Completion of all CDC sets provides
required training for upgrade in the RPA Sensor Operator related positions.
6.3. Seven Level Upgrade Training. The CSAF has approved a variance, eliminating the
requirement for in-residence 7-level training for all 1U0X1 (Aircrew Operations Career Field)
personnel.
7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an
Associate in Applied Sciences (AAS) Degree. Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon completion of basic
military training. Off-duty education is a personal choice but is highly encouraged. In order to
receive Senior Rater Endorsement on the SNCO EPR, individuals will obtain a CCAF degree and
complete requisite Professional Military Education (PME). See the CCAF website for program
details regarding the AAS degree at: http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf . Additionally, see the Air Force
Virtual Education Center website regarding AAS degree progress at: https://my.af.mil.afvecprod/.
In addition to its associate degree program, CCAF offers the following:


                                                  11
7.1. Occupational Instructor Certification. CCAF offers the Occupational Instructor
Certification to instructors teaching full time in a CCAF affiliated school. To qualify, instructors
must complete an instructor course, a Teaching Practicum, have two years teaching experience, hold
an associate or higher degree, and be recommended by their commander/commandant.
7.2. Instructor of Technology & Military Science Degree. This program is offered to enlisted
members who are assigned to CCAF affiliated schools teaching CCAF degree-applicable courses.
Applicants must complete three semester hours of CCAF-approved instructor methodology
coursework and hold their career-field-related CCAF degree or equivalent civilian college degree
before registration.
7.3. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill
certification is awarded for the primary occupational specialty. The College uses a competency based
assessment process for trade skill certification at one of four proficiency levels: Apprentice,
Journeyman, Craftsman/Supervisor, or Master Craftsman/Manager. All are transcribed on the
CCAF transcript.
7.4. Degree Requirements. All airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program. The
current program associates degree available from the CCAF for AFSC 1U0X1 is Air and Space
Operations Technology Degree. Prior to completing an associate degree, the 5-skill level must be
awarded and the following requirements must be met:


 Subject Area                                                                    Semester Hrs
 Technical Education                                                                 24
 Leadership, Management, and Military Studies                                         6
 Physical Education                                                                   4
 General Education                                                                   15
 Program Elective                                                                    15
 Total                                                                               64


7.4.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of Technical
Core subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied from Technical
Core/Technical Elective subjects/courses. Requests to substitute subjects/courses must be approved
in advance by the Technical Branch at CCAF. Refer to the CCAF Catalog for a current listing of
Technical Core and Elective Subjects/Courses.
7.4.1.1. Technical Core (12-24 Semester Hours):


 Subject/Course                                                               Max Semester Hrs
 Aerospace Control and Warning Systems                                              24
 CCAF Internship                                                                    18
 Computer Networking                                                                 6
 Radio Communications                                                               16
 Space Systems Operations                                                           24


7.4.1.2. Technical Electives (0-12 Semester Hours):


 Subject/Course                                                               Max Semester Hrs
 Astronautics                                                                        3
 Astronomy                                                                           3
 Aviation/Flight Safety                                                              3
 Basic Electronics Theory/Application                                                6
 Computer Science                                                                    6

                                                12
 Management Information Systems                                                            3
 Programming Languages                                                                     6
 Solid-State Theory/Application                                                            3
 Space Propulsion                                                                          3
 Technical Writing                                                                         3
7.4.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Professional
Military Education and/or civilian management courses accepted in transfer and/or by testing credit.
See CCAF General Catalog for application of civilian management courses.
7.4.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of
Basic Military Training.
7.4.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
application of courses to the General Education Requirement (GER) and agree with the definitions of
applicable General Education subject/courses as provided in the CCAF General Catalog.


 Subject/Course                                                                     Semester Hrs
 Oral Communication (speech)                                                             3
 Written Communication (English composition)                                             3
 Mathematics (intermediate algebra or college-level mathematics)                         3
 Social Science (anthropology, archaeology, economics, geography,
                                                                                           3
 government, history, political science, psychology, sociology)
 Humanities [courses in fine arts (criticism, appreciation, historical
                                                                                           3
 significance), foreign language, literature, philosophy, religion]
7.4.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education,
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies or General Education subjects/courses.
7.5. Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is encouraged for all. Individuals desiring
to become an FTU Instructor should be actively pursuing an associate’s degree. A degreed faculty is
necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.
8. Career Field Flow Charts.
Figure 1 - Enlisted Education and Training Path
Figure 2 – Career Path #1
Figure 3 – Career Path #2
Figure 4 – 1U0X1 Assignment Locations
NOTES:
- The courses outlined in figure 2 represent the formal training required for personnel entering and
becoming fully qualified in the RPA Sensor Operator Specialty. The locations, course lengths, and
titles are subject to change. Changes will be updated in the Education Training Course
Announcement (ETCA) by the course owner.
- Personnel graduating from the BSOC are awarded AFSC 1U031 and are authorized to wear the
RPA Sensor Operator Wings. Wear and permanent awarding requirements of the RPA Sensor
Operator Wings will be IAW AFI 11-402 and MAJCOM supplements. Failure to complete IQT is
authority for supervisors to recommend revocation of wear of the RPA SO wings.




                                                   13
                                   Enlisted Education and Training Path
                                                            GRADE REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                               High Year
                                                              Earliest   Air Force   1U0X1
Education and Training Requirements                 Rank                                       of Tenure
                                                              Sew-on     Average     Average
                                                                                                 (HYT)
Basic Military Training School (BMTS)                AB
Apprentice Technical School                                     6
                                                    Amn
(3-Skill Level)                                               months
Upgrade To Journeyman                                           16
(5-Skill Level)                                     A1C
                                                              months
- Minimum 12 months on-the-job training                                     3           3         12
- Minimum 9 months on-the-job training for                                years       years      years
                                                                28
  retrainees                                        SrA
- Complete appropriate CDC                                    months
Airman Leadership School (ALS)
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service
  or be a SSgt selectee (ARC: Must be a SrA
  with 42 months time in service to accomplish
  ALS by correspondence)
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt
  sew-on (Active Duty Only)
Upgrade To Craftsman
(7-Skill Level)                                                  3         4.6        4.2         20
- Minimum rank of SSgt                              SSgt
                                                               years      years      years       years
- 12 months OJT
- 6 months OJT for retrainees
Noncommissioned Officer Academy
(NCOA)
- Must be a TSgt or TSgt selectee                                5         10.8       10.3       24
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt    TSgt
                                                               years      years      years      years
  sew-on (Active Duty Only)
- Resident or correspondence graduation is a
  prerequisite for MSgt sew-on (ARC Only)
USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)
- Must be a SMSgt, SMSgt
  selectee, or a selected MSgt to attend
                                                                 8         17          17         26
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for         MSgt
                                                               years      years       years      years
  SMSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only)
- Resident or correspondence graduation is a
  prerequisite for SMSgt sew-on (ARC Only)
Upgrade to Superintendent
                                                                11         20.5       18.4        28
(9-Skill level)                                    SMSgt
                                                               years      years      years       years
- Minimum rank of SMSgt
Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM)
- Minimum rank of CMSgt                                         14         22.8       22.3        30
                                                   CMSgt
- Completed SNCO Academy (Active Duty Only)                    years      years      years       years
- Chief Leadership Course (CLC)
                                         Data current as of August 2009
                                                   Figure 1




                                                      14
              1U0X1 Career Path 1 of 2


                 Basic Military Training
                    Lackland AFB, TX

 Non-CEA
Re-trainees


              Aircrew Fundamentals Course
                  w/o Altitude Chamber
                         (14 days)
                    Lackland AFB, TX



   CEA
Re-trainees


              Basic Sensor Operator Course
                           (BSOC)
                   Initial Skills Training
                          (21 days)
                    Randolph AFB, TX



               Remotely Piloted Aircrafts
              Fundamentals Course (UFC)
                       (20 days)
                  Randolph AFB, TX




              MQ-1/MQ-9 Sensor Operator
              Initial Qualification (SOIQ)
                       (45/49 days)

                    Creech AFB, NV,
                   Holloman AFB, NM
                    March AFB, CA




                       Figure 2




                          15
                                1U0X1 Career Path 2 of 2



                            Mission Qual/Cert Training
                                         at
                              Initial Duty Assignment




                                  Mission Ready
                                Line Sensor Operator




                                Instructor Upgrade
                            (See 11-2MDS Vol 1 for upgrade time
                                      requirements)




                                 Evaluator Upgrade
                               (See 11-2MDS Vol 2 for upgrade
                                        requirements)




                 Career Broadening and Special Duty Jobs for 1U0X1:
Section Chief                 Flight Chief              Squadron Evaluator
Squadron Superintendent       Squadron Instructor       FTU Evaluator
Squadron Program Manager Squadron Training Flight       Ops Group Stan/Eval
Ops Group Functional Manager                            FTU Instructor
NAF Stan/Eval                 MAJCOM Functional Manager
Wing Training                 MAJCOM Stan/Eval          AFCFM
Air Force Expeditionary Center                          CoE Instructor

First Sergeant             Military Training Instructor           Recruiter
Group Superintendent       PME Instructor
Command Chief




                                           Figure 3



                                               16
                               *1U0X1 Assignment Locations


 Location                    CMS     SMS     MSG      TSG         SSG   SRA   A1C   Student
 Cannon AFB, NM               X       X       X        X           X     X     X
 Creech AFB, NV               X       X       X        X           X     X     X      X
 Holloman AFB, NM             X       X       X        X           X     X     X      X
 Hurlburt Field, FL           X       X       X        X           X     X
 Lackland AFB, TX                                                                     X
 Langley AFB, VA               X       X       X
 March AFB, CA                         X       X        X         X     X             X
 Nellis AFB, NV                        X       X        X         X     X     X

                                Data Current as of: August 2009


* NOTE - The authorizations listed above are subject to change without notice. Sensor Operators
interested in assignments to locations listed should consult their MAJCOM functional manager or
the Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) resource manager for more detailed information about
requirements for a specific location.




                                            Figure 4




                                                17
Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements
9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of task and
knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each skill
level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award, and
retention of each skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements are identified in
the STS and the Course Objective List at Part II, Section A and B of this CFETP.
10. Specialty Description:
10.1. Apprentice 3-Level Training:
10.1.1. Specialty Qualification.
10.1.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of sensor fundamentals and the operational
characteristics of surveillance and mission systems; target detection and tracking functions;
interpreting computer-generated console situation, electronically generated data, using identification
procedures, passing, receiving and interpreting data link information; using air-to-air and air-to-
ground communications systems; emergency procedures and equipment; maintenance of standard
and technical publications; performing emergency action procedures and conducting theater air
activities.
10.1.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school with courses in physics
and mathematics are desirable.
10.1.1.2.1. Minimum ASVAB score of 64 (Mechanical) or 54 (Electrical) is mandatory.
10.1.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 1U031, individuals must meet mandatory requirements
listed in specialty description in Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (Formally known as
AFMAN 36-2108). Completion of the Aircrew Fundamentals Course is mandatory for NPS and non-
aviation service cross training students. Completion of the Basic Sensor Operator Course is
mandatory for award of the 3-skill level AFSC.
10.1.1.4. Other. The following are mandatory as indicated:
10.1.1.4.1. For entry, award, and retention of this AFSC:
10.1.1.4.1.1. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examination and Standard.
10.1.1.4.1.2. Physical qualification for ground based controller duty according to AFI 48-123, Medical
Examination and Standards, Volume 3, Chapter 1, Paragraph 1.1 and Attachment 2. NOTE: A
Flying Class III physical in not required.
10.1.1.4.1.3. Qualification for aviation service according to AFI 11-402, Aviation and Parachutist
Service, Aeronautical Ratings and Badges.
10.1.1.4.1.4. Eligibility for a Top Secret security clearance according to AFI 31-501, Personnel
Security Management Program.
10.1.1.4.1.5. Must maintain eligibility to deploy and mobilize worldwide.
10.1.2. Training Sources. Completion of the BSOC satisfies the knowledge and training
requirements specified in the specialty qualification section (above) for award of the 3-skill level.
Completion of the Aircrew Fundamentals Course is mandatory.
10.1.3. Implementation. Entry into training is accomplished by initial accessions from BMTS or
approved retraining from any AFSC. After graduation from BSOC, IQT starts when an individual is
assigned to their first duty position. Thereafter, upgrade training is initiated anytime an individual
is assigned duties they are not qualified to perform.




                                                  18
10.2. Journeyman 5-Level Training:
10.2.1. Specialty Qualification.        All qualifications for AFSC 1U031 apply to the 1U051
requirements.
 10.2.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to knowledge required for the 3-Level and other qualifications as
listed above, an individual must possess the knowledge and skills necessary to operate and maintain
RPA Sensor Operator systems. Knowledge is mandatory of air tasking orders; receiving, recording,
and relaying operational threat data. Completion of qualification criteria in current assigned aircraft
is mandatory.
10.2.1.2. Education. To assume the rank of SSgt, individual must be a graduate of the ALS.
10.2.1.3. Training. Completion of 1U0X1 CDCs, 12 months in UGT(initiated when the individual
starts IQT, provided there is no more than 30 days break-in-training. If a break-in-training exceeds
30 days, upgrade training will be terminated and will restart at the discretion of the unit/base
training manager) (9 months for retrainees), and recommendation by their supervisor is mandatory
for award of the journeyman AFSC.
10.2.1.3.1. Accomplishment of core task requirements established in the STS through MQT, and CT.
10.2.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1U031. Also, experience performing
functions in RPA surveillance systems and/or mission equipment functions is desired. For upgrade to
AFSC 1U051, experience is mandatory in functions such as: target detection, tracking, and
reporting; receiving, displaying, recording and relaying threat data and BSA using the precision
guided munitions during combat missions to ensure desired level of target destruction, and CAS.
10.2.1.5. Other. See paragraph 10.1.1.4
10.2.2. Training Sources. Completion of CDC 1U051, RPA Sensor Operator Journeyman, OJT,
MQT, and CT satisfies the knowledge and training requirements specified (above). Upgrade and
qualification training are provided by qualified trainers using current Air Force Instructions for the
duty position, program to be managed, or equipment to be used. Current training courses are listed
in Part II, Section D of this CFETP. Requests for qualified trainers should be directed to your unit
training manager.
10.2.3. Implementation. Entry into 5 skill level upgrade training is initiated when the individual
starts in-unit MQT and possesses the 3-skill level. Qualification training is initiated anytime an
individual is assigned duties they are not qualified to perform. Enrollment into 5-level CDCs is
accomplished once the Airman has completed IQT at their first duty location.
10.3. Craftsman 7-Level Training:
10.3.1. Specialty Qualification.
10.3.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to knowledge required for the 5-skill level and other qualifications
as listed above, an individual must possess the aircrew management principles, knowledge, and
supervisory skills necessary to supervise personnel, and operate and maintain RPA SO Operations
Systems.
10.3.1.2. Education. To assume the grades of SSgt through MSgt, individuals must be graduates of
the ALS and the NCO Academy (NCOA), respectively.
10.3.1.3. Training. Complete a minimum of 12 months in 7-level OJT. The CSAF has approved a
variance eliminating the requirement for in-residence, 7-skill level, training for all 1U0X1
(Air Operations career field personnel).


10.3.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1U051 qualification is mandatory as
an RPA Sensor Operator Systems Journeyman. Also, experience is mandatory in perform ISR, BSA,
using the precision guided munitions and CAS.
10.3.1.5. Other. See paragraph 10.1.1.4.
                                                  19
10.3.2. Training Sources. The STS identifies all tasks required for qualification. Upgrade and
qualification and certification training are provided by qualified trainers using current Air Force
Instructions for the duty position, program to be managed, or equipment to be used. Current
training courses are listed in Part II, Section D of this CFETP.
10.3.3. Implementation. Entry into 7-level upgrade is effective upon selection for promotion to
SSgt. The only exception is STEP. The 7-level is awarded after completion of the OJT time
requirement.
10.4. Superintendent 9-Level Training:
10.4.1. Specialty Qualification.
10.4.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to knowledge required for the 7-skill level qualification, an
individual must possess advanced skills and knowledge of concepts and principles in the effective
leadership and management of assigned personnel and resources.
10.4.1.2. Education. Completion of the USAF Senior NCO Academy (or sister service equivalent)
in-residence (or by correspondence for ARC). Completion of a (CCAF) Associate of Applied Science
degree in this field is highly encouraged and is the new AF standard.
10.4.1.3. Training. Must hold the rank of SMSgt and have supervisor’s recommendation for award
of the 9-skill level (active duty only).
10.4.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1U071. Also, experience in directing
functions pertaining to Sensor Operator activities. Experience in the management of aircrew
operations and aircraft systems is mandatory. Additionally, experience is mandatory in the
performance of supervisory and management functions.
10.4.1.5. Other. See paragraph 10.1.1.4.
10.4.2. Training Sources. USAF Senior NCO Academy (or sister service equivalent).
10.4.3. Implementation. Individual attains the rank of SMSgt and possesses the 7-skill level.
Qualification training is initiated anytime an individual is assigned duties they are not qualified to
perform.
Section D - Resource Constraints
11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints that preclude optimal/desired
training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower.
Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what effect
each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section are actions required,
office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource constraints will be reviewed
and updated at least annually.
12. Apprentice Level Training. None Identified.
13. Journeyman Level Training. None Identified.
14. Craftsman Level. None Identified.




                                                 20
PART II

Section A - Specialty Training Standard (STS)

1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC for classes
beginning September 2009
2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, Volume 5, this STS:
2.1. Lists in column 1 of attachment 2, the tasks, knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary
for airmen to perform in the 3- and 5-skill level AFSC in the Remotely Piloted Aircraft Sensor
Operator Career Field. These are based on an analysis of the duties listed in Air Force Enlisted
Classification Directory.
2.2. Column 2 (3-skill level and 5-skill level) shows formal training and correspondence course
requirements as described in ETCA at web site https://etca.randolph.af.mil/ and the career knowledge
provided by the correspondence course. There is no advanced course. See AFIADL/AFSC/CDC
listing maintained by the unit OJT manager for current CDC listings.
2.3. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to indicate
the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career development courses.
2.4. Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airmen Promotion System
(WAPS).     Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the Air Force Occupational
Measurement Squadron (AFOMS) by senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their
career fields. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development
team members to be most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based on study
references listed in the WAPS study catalog. Individual responsibilities are in AFI 36-2605, Air
Force Military Personnel Testing System.
3. Recommendations. Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates to 37
TRG/DOS, 1220 Truemper Street, Suite 1, Lackland AFB, TX 78236-5568. Please reference specific
STS paragraphs when submitting recommendations.




BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL                                              PHILIP M. BREEDLOVE, Lt Gen, USAF
                                                      Operations, Plans & Requirements (A3/5)


2 Attachments:
1. Qualitative Requirements
2. STS: Remotely Piloted Aircraft Sensor Operator Specialty (1U0X1)




                                                 21
RPA SOC                                                                                                                                 1 September 2009
                                            THIS BLOCK FOR IDENTIFICATION PURPOSES ONLY
                                                                  NAME OF TRAINEE
PRINTED NAME (Last, First Middle Initial)                                                        INITIALS (Written)    Last 4 of SSAN


                                    PRINTED NAME OF CERTIFYING OFFICIAL AND WRITTEN INITIALS
N/I                                                                              N/I


N/I                                                                              N/I


N/I                                                                              N/I


N/I                                                                              N/I


N/I                                                                              N/I


N/I                                                                              N/I




                                                          QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                           PROFICIENCY CODE KEY
                            SCALE      DEFINITION: The Individual
                            VALUE
                               1       Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (EXTREMELY
                                       LIMITED)
     TASK                      2       Can do most parts of the task. Needs help only on hardest parts. (PARTIALLY PROFICIENT)
 PERFORMANCE
    LEVELS                     3       Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (COMPETENT)

                               4       Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task. (HIGHLY
                                       PROFICIENT)
                               a       Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (NOMENCLATURE)

        **TASK                 b       Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (PROCEDURES)
      KNOWLEDGE
        LEVELS                 c       Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed. (OPERATING PRINCIPLES)
                               d       Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (ADVANCED THEORY)

                               A       Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (FACTS)

      ***SUBJECT               B       Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (PRINCIPLES)
      KNOWLEDGE
        LEVELS                 C       Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (ANALYSIS)

                               D       Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (EVALUATION)


                                                                    EXPLANATIONS
      **   A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific
           task. (Examples: b and 1b)
  ***      A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or
           for a subject common to several tasks.
      -    This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.
      x    This mark is used alone in course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.
 @@        This mark is used to show the five general education requirements by CLEP/DANTES (pass or fail) towards CCAF degree.
Attachment 1




                                                                            22
                  1.                                                    2.
                                           Proficiency codes are used to indicate training /information
                                                                    provided
     TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                  A                                  B
       AND TECHNICAL                                3-Skill                            5-Skill
        REFERENCES                                   Level                              Level

                                           Aircrew           AFSC           Aircrew            AFSC
                                         Fundamentals      Technical      Fundamentals       Technical
                                                           Principles        CDC             Principles
                                                                                               CDC
1. Career Ladder Progression
TR: AFI 36-2101, DODR 5210.42
AFMAN 10-3902, AFI 11-401, AF
Mission Directives
1.1. Progression within 1U0XX                  -                A                -                B
AFSC’s
1.2. Duties within 1U0XX AFSC’s                -                A                -                B
1.3. Total Force                               A                -                B                -
1.3.1. MAJCOM Missions                         A                -                B                -
1.3.2. Specific RPA MAJCOM                     -                A                -                B
Missions
1.4. Joint / Combined Service                  A                -                B                -
2. Security
TR: DODR 5200.1, AFI 10-701,
31-201v2, 31-401, 10-701
2.1. COMSEC relating to aircrew               A                 -                B                -
2.2. OPSEC relating to aircrew                A                 -                B                -
2.3. Perform Anti-Hijacking / Anti-           1a                -                -                -
Terrorism procedures
2.3.1. Identify facts related to anti-        1a                -                -                -
hijacking
2.3.2. Identify facts related to anti-        1a                -                -
                                                                                                  -
terrorism
2.4. Information Security relating to          A                -                B                -
aircrew
2.5. Physical Security relating to             A                -                B                -
aircrew
2.5.1. Perform flight line security           1a                -                -                -
procedures
3. Crew Resource Management
(CRM)
TR: AFI 11-290
3.1. Fundamentals                              A                -                B                -
                                                23
                 1.                                                   2.
                                         Proficiency codes are used to indicate training /information
                                                                  provided
     TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                A                                  B
       AND TECHNICAL                              3-Skill                            5-Skill
        REFERENCES                                 Level                              Level

                                         Aircrew           AFSC           Aircrew            AFSC
                                       Fundamentals      Technical      Fundamentals       Technical
                                                         Principles        CDC             Principles
                                                                                             CDC
3.2. Communication
3.2.1. Terms and definitions                 B                -                -                -
3.2.2. Radio discipline                      A                -                -                -
3.3. Checklist Usage
3.3.1. Boldface Items                        -                A                -                -
3.3.2. Critical Action Procedures            -                A                -                -
3.3.3. Emergency Procedures                  -                A                -                -
4. Aviation Safety / AF
Occupational Safety and Health
(AFOSH) Program
TR: AFI 32-7086, 91-201, 91-202,
91-301, 91-302, 91-303, AFMAN
24-204, AFOSH Std 91-25, 91-66,
91-100, AFPAM 91-121
4.1. Aviator hazards
4.1.1. Engine air intake and exhaust        A                 -                B                -
4.1.1.1. Apply appropriate safety           1a                -                -                -
measures
4.1.2. High intensity sound                 A                 -                B                -
4.1.2.1. Apply appropriate safety           1a                -                -                -
measures
4.1.3. Rotor / propeller planes of           A                -                B                -
rotation
4.1.3.1. Apply appropriate safety           1a                -                -                -
measures
4.1.4. Antenna radiation                    A                 -                B                -
4.1.4.1. Apply appropriate safety           1a                -                -                -
measures
4.1.5. Aircraft electrical system           A                 -                -                -
4.1.5.1. Apply appropriate safety           1a                -                -                -
measures
4.1.6. Ground support equipment             A                 -                B                -
4.1.6.1. Apply appropriate safety           1a                -                -                -
measures
                                              24
                1.                                                   2.
                                        Proficiency codes are used to indicate training /information
                                                                 provided
     TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                               A                                  B
       AND TECHNICAL                             3-Skill                            5-Skill
        REFERENCES                                Level                              Level

                                        Aircrew           AFSC           Aircrew            AFSC
                                      Fundamentals      Technical      Fundamentals       Technical
                                                        Principles        CDC             Principles
                                                                                            CDC
4.1.6.2. RPA Aviation Safety                -                A                -               B
4.2. Weather                                A                -                -               -
4.2.1. Weather conditions                   -                -                -               B
4.2.2. Reports                              -                -                -               B
4.2.3. Effects on the weapons               -                A                -               B
System
4.2.4. Mission impact                       -                A                -                B
4.2.5. RPA Shift Fatigue                    -                A                -                B
4.3. Bird Avoidance Strike Hazard           A                -                B                -
(BASH) Program
4.4. Hazardous Materials                    A                -                B                -
(HAZMAT)
4.5. Foreign Object Damage (FOD)            A                -                B                -
Hazards / Prevention
4.6. High intensity light (Strobes)         A                -                B                -
4.7. Occupational Hazards
4.8. Laser Hazards                          -                A                -                B
4.9. Weapons/Munitions Hazards              -                A                -                B
4.10. RPA Aviation Safety                   -                A                -                B
5. Publications
TR: AFI 11-215, 33-360, 37-
160v1, T.O. 00-20, 00-5-1/2, DODR
4500-32v1, 11-202v2
5.1. Air Force Technical Orders            B                 -                B                -
5.1.1. Use T.O.s                           2b                -                -                -
5.1.2. Post changes                        2b                -                -                -
5.2. Publications                          B                 -                B                -
5.2.1. Use publications                    2b                -                -                -
5.2.2. Post changes                        2b                -                -                -
5.3. Flight Publication Improvement        B                 -                B                -
Reports
5.3.1. Complete Flight Publication         2b                -                -                -
Improvement Report (AF Form 847)
5.4. AFTO IMT 781 series                   B                 -                B                -
5.4.1. Use AFTO IMT 781A                   1a                -                -                -

                                             25
                1.                                                   2.
                                        Proficiency codes are used to indicate training /information
                                                                 provided
     TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                               A                                  B
       AND TECHNICAL                             3-Skill                            5-Skill
        REFERENCES                                Level                              Level

                                        Aircrew           AFSC           Aircrew            AFSC
                                      Fundamentals      Technical      Fundamentals       Technical
                                                        Principles        CDC             Principles
                                                                                            CDC
5.5. Flight Crew Information File          B                 -                B               -
5.5.1. Use Flight Crew Information         2b                -                -               -
File
6. Aircrew / Flight Management
TR: AFPD 11-4, AFI 11-401, 11-
402, 11-412, 11-202, 38-201, 48-
123v3
6.1. Responsibilities of HQ USAF            -                -                A                -
and MAJCOM aircrew managers
6.2. Flight authorization                   A                -                A                -
6.3. Aviation Resource
Management (ARM)
6.3.1. Host Aviation Resource               A                -                A                -
Management (HARM)
6.3.2. Squadron Aviation Resource           A                -                A                -
Management (SARM)
6.4. Flight Records Folder (FRF)            A                -                A                -
6.5. Aviation service, aeronautical         A                -                B                -
ratings, badges
6.6 Incentive Pays                          B                -                B                -
6.7. Flight medicine
6.7.1. Flight surgeon functions             B                -                B                -
6.7.2. Grounding / Duties Not               B                -                B                -
Including Flying (DNIF) status
6.8. Aircrew member
responsibilities
6.8.1. Crew rest                            A                -                B                -
6.8.2. Restrictions                         A                -                B                -
7. Aircrew Training / Supervision
TR: AFI 11-2MDS V1, 11-
202v1/2, 36-2101, 36-2201 series,
Education & Training Course
Announcements (ETCA)
7.1. Line Item Not Used / Reserved          -                -                -                -
7.2. Line Item Not Used / Reserved          -                -                -                -
7.3. Initial qualification training         A                -                B                -
                                             26
                 1.                                                  2.
                                        Proficiency codes are used to indicate training /information
                                                                 provided
     TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                               A                                  B
       AND TECHNICAL                             3-Skill                            5-Skill
        REFERENCES                                Level                              Level

                                        Aircrew           AFSC           Aircrew            AFSC
                                      Fundamentals      Technical      Fundamentals       Technical
                                                        Principles        CDC             Principles
                                                                                            CDC
7.4. Mission qualification training         A                -                B               -
7.5. Continuation training /                A                -                B               -
maintaining currency
7.6. Requalification training               A                -                -                -
7.7. Flight Training Records                A                -                B                -
7.8. Standardization/Evaluation             A                -                B                -
functions
7.9 Flight Evaluation Folder (FEF)          A                -                B                -
7.10. Life support equipment                A                -                -                -
8. Aerodynamics
TR: -1 T.O., AFH 11-203v1, T.O.
1-1B-50
8.1. Fixed wing                             A                -                -                -
8.2. Rotary wing                            A                -                -                -
8.3. Aircraft general (basic                A                -                -                -
construction)
8.4. Flight controls                        A                -                -                -
8.5. Instruments                            A                -                -                -
8.6. Aircraft weight and balance
8.6.1. Principles                          A                 -                -                -
8.6.2. Apply concepts                      1a                -                -                -
8.6.3. Solve math problems                 1a                -                -                -
9. Aircrew Activities
TR: -1 T.O., -9 T.O, AFI 10-707,
11-202
9.1. Mission briefings                     A                 -                -                -
9.1.1. Mission planning documents          A                 -                -                -
9.2. Professional equipment                A                 -                A                -
9.3. Perform egress procedures             1a                -                -                -
9.4. Identify aircraft emergency           1a                -                -                -
equipment
9.5. Oxygen requirements                    A                -                A                -
9.6. Joint Spectrum Interference            A                -                B                -
Resolution (JSIR) / Air Force
Spectrum Interference Resolution

                                             27
               1.                                                 2.
                                     Proficiency codes are used to indicate training /information
                                                              provided
    TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                             A                                  B
      AND TECHNICAL                           3-Skill                            5-Skill
       REFERENCES                              Level                              Level

                                     Aircrew           AFSC           Aircrew            AFSC
                                   Fundamentals      Technical      Fundamentals       Technical
                                                     Principles        CDC             Principles
                                                                                         CDC
(AFSIR)
10. Aircraft Systems / Equipment
TR: -1 T.O., MAJCOM guidance
and T.O. 00-25-172, AFI 11-202
10.1. Electrical                         A                -                -                -
10.2. Hydraulic                          A                -                -                -
10.3. Environmental                      A                -                -                -
10.4. Communications                     A                -                -                -
10.5. Oxygen                             A                -                -                -
10.6. Fuel                               A                -                -                -
10.7. Concurrent servicing               A                -                -                -
10.8. Fleet Service equipment            A                -                -                -
10.9. Engines                            A                -                -                -
10.10. Navigation lighting               A                -                -                -
11. RPA Platforms
TR:
11.1. MQ-1 – Predator
11.1.1. Capabilities                     -                A                -                B
11.1.2. Limitations                      -                A                -                B
11.2. MQ-9 – Reaper
11.2.1. Capabilities                     -                A                -                B
11.2.2. Limitations                      -                A                -                B
12. Sensors
TR:
12.1. Electromagnetic Spectrum           -                A                -                B
12.2. Radar
12.2.1. Theory                           -                A                -                B
12.2.2. Components                       -                A                -                B
12.3. Infrared
12.3.1. Theory                           -                A                -                B
12.3.2. Components                       -                A                -                B
12.4. Television / Optical
12.4.1. Theory                           -                A                -                B
12.4.2. Components                       -                A                -                B
12.5. Fused Optics (MUX)
                                          28
                1.                                                  2.
                                       Proficiency codes are used to indicate training /information
                                                                provided
     TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                              A                                  B
       AND TECHNICAL                            3-Skill                            5-Skill
        REFERENCES                               Level                              Level

                                       Aircrew           AFSC           Aircrew            AFSC
                                     Fundamentals      Technical      Fundamentals       Technical
                                                       Principles        CDC             Principles
                                                                                           CDC
12.5.1. Theory                             -                A                -               B
12.5.2. Components                         -                A                -               B
12.5. RPA LASER
12.5.1. Theory                             -                A                -                B
12.5.2. Components                         -                A                -                B
12.6. Marking Devices                      -                A                -                B
12.7. RPA Sensor Limitations               -                A                -                B
13. Geospatial Reference Systems
TR:
13.1. Military Grid Reference              -               2b                -                B
System (MGRS) / Universal
Transverse Mercator (UTM)
13.2. Latitude / Longitude                 -               2b                -                B
(Lat/Long)
13.3. Bearing and Range                    -               2b                -                B
13.4. Falcon View / TDF                    -               2b                -                B
13.5. Keypad System                        -               2b                -                B
14. Communication
TR: AFIs 33-xxx Series; ACPs
121,125,165; AFI 11-214; AFKAG;
AFTTP 3-1 Vol 1, Atch 1-1
14.1. Voice communication
14.1.1. Radio Telephone procedures         -                B                -                B
(RPA) [VOIP & STE]
14.1.2. Methods of calls                   -               2b                -                B
14.1.3. Types of calls                     -               2b                -                B
14.1.4. UHF                                -               A                 -                B
14.1.5. VHF                                -               A                 -                B
14.1.6. HF                                 -               A                 -                B
14.1.7. SATCOM                             -               A                 -                B
14.1.8. Secure Comm.                       -               A                 -                B
14.2. RPA Control Data links
14.2.1. Satellite Operations               -                A                -                B
14.2.2. LOS Operations                     -                A                -                B
14.3. Situational Awareness
                                            29
                 1.                                                   2.
                                         Proficiency codes are used to indicate training /information
                                                                  provided
     TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                A                                  B
       AND TECHNICAL                              3-Skill                            5-Skill
        REFERENCES                                 Level                              Level

                                         Aircrew           AFSC           Aircrew            AFSC
                                       Fundamentals      Technical      Fundamentals       Technical
                                                         Principles        CDC             Principles
                                                                                             CDC
Datalinks
14.3.1. TADIL-J/LINK 16                      -                A                -                B
[TDF/FV]
14.3.2. ROVER                                -                A                -                B
14.3.3. MIRC Chat                            -                A                -                -
14.3.4. Datalink Encryption                  -                A                -                B
15. RPA Crew Activities
TR:
15.1. RPA briefings                          -                A                -                B
15.1.1. RPA planning documents               -                A                -                B
15.2. RPA Equipment
15.2.1. G.C.S.                               -                A                -                B
15.2.2. Fixed/Mobile Ops                     -                A                -                B
15.3. RPA Debriefings                        -                A                -                B
15.4. MCE/LRE Operations                     -                A                -                B
15.5. Handover Procedures &                  -                A                -                B
Gaining/Losing Procedures
16. Full Motion Video (FMV)
 & Heads Up Displays (HUD)
TR:
16.1. Aircraft Orientation                   -               2b                -                B
16.1. Target Acquisition                     -               2b                -                B
16.2. Target Orientation                     -               2b                -                B
16.3. FMV Imagery Analysis                   -               2b                -                -
16.4. Manipulate FMV                         -               2b                -                -
16.5. HUD Interpretation                     -               2b                -                -
17. Joint Operations / Theater
Operations
TR:
17.1. Joint Force Doctrine                   -                A                -                B
17.2. USAF Doctrine                          -                A                -                B
17.3. Unified Command Structure              -                A                -                B
17.4. US, Allied and Commercial              -                A                -                B
ISR, Strike and Multi-Role platforms
and sources

                                              30
                1.                                                   2.
                                        Proficiency codes are used to indicate training /information
                                                                 provided
     TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                               A                                  B
       AND TECHNICAL                             3-Skill                            5-Skill
        REFERENCES                                Level                              Level

                                        Aircrew           AFSC           Aircrew            AFSC
                                      Fundamentals      Technical      Fundamentals       Technical
                                                        Principles        CDC             Principles
                                                                                            CDC
17.5. Multi-Role Agencies (DOD &            -                A                -               B
Civilian)
17.5.1. ISR Planning (TPED)                 -                A                -                B
17.5.2. Predictive Battlefield              -                A                -                B
Awareness
17.6. RPA Tasking                           -                A                -                B
17.6.1. Time Sensitive Targets              -                A                -                B
17.6.2. F2T2EA Kill Chain                   -                A                -                B
17.7. Guided Munitions                      -                A                -                B
17.7.1. AGM-114                             -                A                -                B
17.7.2. (E)GBU / Future Weapons             -                A                -                B
17.8. Threat Systems
17.8.1. Electronic                          -                A                -                B
17.8.2. Mechanical                          -                A                -                B
17.8.3. Adversary Air                       -                A                -                B
17.8.4. Adversary Ground                    -                A                -                B
17.8.5. Threat Reduction / Standoff         -                A                -                B
Considerations
Attachment 2




                                             31
Section B – Course Objective List
4. Measurement. Each objective is indicated as follows: W indicates task or subject knowledge
which is measured using a written test, PC indicates required task performance which is measured
with a performance progress check, and PC/W indicates separate measurement of both knowledge
and performance elements using a written test and performance progress check. P indicates
performance test only.
5. Standard. The standard is 85% on written examinations.                  Standards for performance
measurement are indicated in the objective and delineated on the individual progress checklist.
Instructor assistance is provided as needed during the progress check and students may be required
to repeat all or part of the behavior until satisfactory performance is attained.
6. Proficiency Level. Most task performance is taught to the “2b” proficiency level which means
the students can do most parts of the task, but does need assistance on the hardest parts of the task
(partially proficient). The student can also determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task.
7. Course Objective. These objectives are listed in the sequence taught by Block of Instruction.
7.1. Initial Skills Course:
7.1.1. Block 1. Introduction to Unmanned Aviation
7.1.1.1. Orientation
7.1.1.2. 1U031 Career Field
7.1.1.3. Aviation Safety
7.1.2. Block 2. Sensors and Communications
7.1.2.1. Sensors
7.1.2.2. Communications
7.1.3. Block 3. Reference Systems
7.1.3.1. Introduction to Reference Systems
7.1.4. Block 4. Unmanned Aerial Systems
7.1.4.1. Aircraft
7.1.4.2. Control
7.1.4.3. Employment
7.1.5. Block 5. Full Motion Video (FMV)
7.1.5.1. Orientation
7.1.5.2. Heads-Ups Displays
7.1.6. Block 6. RPA Operational Interface
7.1.6.1. Commands
7.1.6.2. Interface




                                                 32
Section C – Support Materials
8. The following list of support materials is not all-inclusive; however, it covers the most frequently
referenced areas.
NOTE: This area is reserved for future use.
Section D – Training Course Index
9. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training course available for the specialty and
shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field training programs. Course
requirements and details can be found at https://rso.my.af.mil/etcacourses/.
10. Air Force In-Residence Courses.

COURSE NUMBER                            COURSE TITLE                               LOCATION

L3AQR1U0X1 01AA         Aircrew Fundamentals w/o Chamber Qualification         Lackland AFB, TX

RPA BSOC (B8O)          Remotely Piloted Aircrafts (RPA) Basic Sensor          Randolph AFB, TX
                        Operator Course (BSOC)

U-P4A-A                 Remotely Piloted Aircrafts (RPA) Fundamentals          Randolph AFB, TX
                        Course (UFC)

11. Air University AU/A4L Catalog.

          COURSE NUMBER                                         COURSE TITLE

CDC 1UX5X                                  Aircrew Fundamentals

CDC 1U051 (Reserved for Future Use)        Remotely Piloted     Aircrafts   (RPA)   Sensor   Operator
                                           Journeyman

NOTE: CDC Volume(s) and content have not yet been established. Reserved for future use.

Section E – MAJCOM Unique Requirements
12. Air Combat Command Courses.

COURSE NUMBER                        COURSE TITLE                               LOCATION
                                                                      Creech AFB, NV
MQ1IQR                   MQ-1B Initial Qualification and
                                                                      Holloman AFB, NM
                         Requalification Training Course
                                                                      March AFB, CA
                                                                      Creech AFB, NV
MQ1IUT                   MQ-1B Instructor Upgrade Training
                                                                      Holloman AFB, NM
                         Course
                                                                      Creech AFB, NV
MQ1LR                    MQ-1B Launch and Recovery Training
                                                                      Holloman AFB, NM
                         Course
                                                                      Creech AFB, NV
MQ9PSOLRC                MQ-9 Launch/Recovery Training Course
                                                                      Holloman AFB, NM
                                                                      Holloman AFB, NM
MQ9PSOB                  MQ-9 Basic Training Course




                                                  33
13. Air Education and Training Command Courses.

COURSE NUMBER                     COURSE TITLE                      LOCATION

L3AIRTXXXX 0B1A        Basic Instructor Course (BIC)        Lackland AFB, TX

E6AZU3S200 015         CDC Writer                           CBT Course

E6AILTXXXX 011A        Principles of Instructional System   CBT Course
                       Development (ISD)

14. Air National Guard Courses.

    COURSE NUMBER                      COURSE TITLE                 LOCATION



NOTE: Reserved for future use.




                                               34
