DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                   CFETP 2A0X1M
Headquarters US Air Force                                                         Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                       1 January 2014




                              AFSC 2A0X1M

        AVIONICS TEST STATION AND
         COMPONENTS SPECIALIST
                B-1/F-15/E-8




        CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
          AND TRAINING PLAN
         ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
                     www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

            RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
This Page Intentionally Blank
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                       CFETP 2A0X1M
Headquarters US Air Force                                                             Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                          1 January 2014

                      CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                   AVIONICS TEST STATION AND COMPONENTS SPECIALIST
                                       B1/F-15/E-8
                                      AFSC 2A0X1M

                                           Table of Contents
PART I                                                                                   Page

Preface……………………………………………………………………………………………………………….….1

Abbreviations/Terms Explained………………………………………………………………………………………2

Section A--General Information………………………………………………………………………………………6
     Purpose of the CFETP
     Use of the CFETP
     Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B--Career Progression and Information…………………………………………………………………….6
     Specialty Description
     Skill/Career Progression
          Apprentice Level (3)
          Journeyman Level (5)
          Craftsman Level (7)
          Superintendent Level (9)
     Training Decisions
     Higher Education and Advanced Certification Opportunities
     Career Field Path
     Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist

Section C--Skill Level Training Requirements……………………………………………………………………..12
     Purpose
     Specialty Qualification Requirements
     Training Sources
          Apprentice Level (3)
          Journeyman Level (5)
          Craftsman Level (7)
          Superintendent Level (9)

Section D--Resource Constraints…………………………………………………………………………………….13

Section E—Transitional Training Guide……………………………………………………………………………13

PART II

 Section A, Specialty Training Standard Course (STS)………………………………………………………….14

 Section B, Course Objective……………………………………………………………………………………….15

 Section C, Support Material. ..….…………………………………………………………………………………16

 Section D, Training Course Index ………………………………………………………………………………...16

 Section E, MAJCOM Unique Requirements)…………………………………………………………………….16

Supersedes: CFETP 2A0X1S, 1 October 2008          OPR: 365 TRS/TRR
                                                  Approved By: HQ USAF/A4LF; Number of printed pages: 112
                                                                                           CFETP 2A0X1M


                  AVIONICS TEST STATION AND COMPONENTS SPECIALIST
                     CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                      B1/F-15/E-8
                                     AFSC 2A0X1M


PART I

PREFACE

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and training
document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support resources, and
minimum core task requirements for 2A0X1M, Avionic Test Stations and Components Specialty. The
CFETP will provide personnel a clear career path to success and instill rigor in all aspects of career field
training. This CFETP supersedes 2A0X1S CFETP dated 1 October 2008. The official CFETP can be
found at the Air Force E-Publishing website: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/ . NOTE: Civilians
occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty position qualification training.

2. CFETP Parts. The CFETP consists of two parts. Supervisors will use both parts to plan, manage,
and control training.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A explains
how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression information, duties and
responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C associates each level with specialty
qualifications (knowledge, education, training, and other). Section D indicates resource constraints to
accomplishing this plan, such as funds, manpower, equipment, and facilities. Section E identifies
transition training plans for the career field.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A provides an explanation of AETC course objectives and
trained proficiency levels. Section B identifies available support materials, such as Qualification Training
Package (QTP), which may be developed to support proficiency training. Section C identifies a training
course index that supervisors can use to determine if resources are available to support training. Included
here are both mandatory and optional courses. Section D identifies MAJCOM unique training
requirements supervisors can use to determine additional training required for the associated qualification
needs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training
commensurate with the overall goals of this plan. Section E identifies the Specialty Training Standard
(STS) and includes duties, tasks, technical references to support training, Air Education and Training
Command (AETC) conducted training, wartime course/core task, and Career Development Course (CDC)
requirements.




                                                      1
ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training. Formal course, which provides individuals who are qualified in their Air Force
Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance their expertise in the career field. Training
is for selected career airmen at the advanced level of an AFS.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a particular
job type or duty position. Supervisors use the AFJQS to document task qualifications. The AFJQS tasks
are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Bridge Course. A formal or informal course, which allows the individual to expand his/her knowledge
in another area of expertise.

Career Development Course (CDC)--Self-study correspondence course to provide Airmen with
fundamental knowledge of their AFS.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive, multipurpose
document covering the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field. It outlines a logical
growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career field training identifiable,
eliminate duplication, and ensure this training is budget defensible.

Certification. A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required standards.

Certification Official – A person authorized by appropriate commander to determine an individual’s
ability to perform a task to required standards.

Continuation Training. This is additional training that exceeds minimum upgrade requirements and has
an emphasis on present or future duty assignments.

Core Task. Tasks that the Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) identifies as minimum
qualification requirements within an Air Force Specialty.

Course Training Standard (CTS). A formal course document that identifies in board terms the training
members will receive in a specific course.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal AETC training and On-The-Job (OJT) training
designed to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video or other
necessary means to supplement training.

Go/No Go Level. In OJT, the stage at which an individual has gained enough skill, knowledge and
experience to either be qualified to perform an identified task without assistance or cannot perform the
task without assistance.




                                                     2
Field Technical Training (Type 4). Special or regular on-site training conducted by a Training
Detachment (TD) or by a Mobile Training Team (MTT).

Initial Skills Training. A formal school course that results in the award of a 3-skill level AFSC.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly process for developing, validating,
and reviewing instructional programs that ensures personnel are taught the knowledge and skills essential
for successful job performance.

Maintenance Information System (MIS). Systems and applications that support and enable
maintenance business processes. Used to document maintenance actions. Provides maintenance
supervisors with products to evaluate organizational effectiveness and aid in decision-making processes at
all levels.

Maintenance Supply Liaison (MSL). Monitors overall maintenance and supply interface, resolves
supply support problems, and coordinates supply-related training needs.

Master Task Listing (MTL). Document maintained within the work-center that identifies all tasks
performed in a work-center. This includes core, critical position qualification and wartime tasks. This
document can be automated.

Master Training Plan. A comprehensive work-center training plan that may include MTLs, QTPs,
AFJQS, CFETP, task breakdowns, commercial publications and any other document that supports
training.

Mobile Training Team (MTT). Instructors, trainers, training aids and operational equipment that formal
schools send to bases or operating locations used to perform formal training.

Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational survey
of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training at the duty location used to certify
personnel for both skill level upgrade and duty position qualification.

Plan of Instruction (POI). An AETC course document used for course planning, organization, operation
and validation. It provides course objectives, level of training provided, planned times, sequence of
instruction, required resources and specifies how course objectives are measured.

Position Qualification Training. Training designed to qualify an airman in a specific position and is
accomplished after upgrade training.

Proficiency Training. Additional training either in residence or exportable advanced training courses, or
on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum
required for upgrade.




                                                     3
Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an airman
in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade training
process. It is designed to provide the performance skill/knowledge training required to do the job.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional course designed for use at the unit to qualify
or aid qualification in a duty position or program or on a piece of equipment. It may be printed, computer
based, or in other audiovisual media.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies such as money, facilities, time, manpower, or equipment
that preclude desired training from being accomplished.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force document that is published as an attachment to the
appropriate CFETP that describes an Air Force Specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge an airman may
be expected to perform or to know on the job. It serves as a contract between AETC and the functional
user to show which of the overall training requirements for an AFSC are taught in formal schools, Career
Development Courses (CDC), and exportable courses.

Supplemental Training. Formal, standardized training within an AFS that is in addition to required
initial skills training and skill level upgrade training. It may support new/newly assigned equipment,
methods, and/or technology.

Task Certifier. See Certification Official

Training Business Area (TBA) – Net-Centric, GCSS-AF IF Web-Based application providing Air
Force Warfighters with global, real-time visibility into the technical qualifications, certifications and
training status of logistics, communications and information professionals Air Force wide. TBA supports
base, wing and work center level training management activities by automating training management
business processes. The primary users of TBA will be any personnel directly involved in base level
training management and certification activities. TBA is being developed and maintained by 754th
Electronic Systems Group, Installation and Logistics, Maintenance Flight (754 ELSG/ILM) at Maxwell-
Gunter AFB.

Training Detachment (TD). An AETC detachment that provides maintenance oriented technical
training, at an operational location, on specific systems including their aerospace ground equipment or in
new equipment techniques and procedures. A TD qualifies personnel to maintain proficiency, increase
skill and knowledge, acquaint personnel with specific systems and keep personnel aware of changing
concepts and requirements.

Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-the-job,
field training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.).

Upgrade Training (UGT). A mixture of mandatory courses, task qualification, QTPs, and CDCs
required for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, or 9-skill levels.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum that is convened and chaired on a recurring
basis by the AF Career Field Manager (AFCFM), designed to review the appropriate CFETP and its


                                                     4
attachments. The purpose is to ensure currency, accuracy and completeness of content, to include specific
formal career ladder training requirements. Workshops are co-chaired by AETC Training Pipeline
Manager and include MAJCOM Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) Functional Managers, AETC training
personnel and Subject Matter Experts (SMEs).




                                                    5
PART 1

SECTION A - GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Purpose. This CFETP provides the information necessary for the AFCFM, MFMs, commanders,
training managers, supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective and
efficient career field training program. The plan outlines the training that individuals in this AFS should
receive in order to develop and progress throughout their career. This plan identifies initial skills, upgrade,
qualification, advanced and proficiency training. The CFETP also:

1.1. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training and the training
delivery method.

1.2. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired career field
training process.

2. Use of the CFETP: This plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure
comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop/revise formal resident, non-resident, Training Detachment
(TD), and exportable training based upon requirements established by the users and documented in Part II
of the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining the
resources needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial, upgrade, and
proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, contract training, or exportable courses can satisfy these
identified requirements. MAJCOM developed training to support this AFSC must be identified for
inclusion in this plan and must not duplicate other available training resources.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan. The list of
courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.
3. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP. The AFCFM is the approval authority for the CFETP.
The AETC training manager for AFSC 2A0X1M will initiate an annual review of this document by
AETC and MFM to ensure currency and accuracy. The using MAJCOM representatives and AETC
training personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field training requirements. Using the list of
courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.

SECTION B - CAREER FIELD PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION

4. Specialty Descriptions.

4.1. Specialty Summary. Performs and manages avionic test station functions and activities. Operates,
inspects, maintains, programs, and calibrates computer and manually operated avionic test equipment,
support equipment (SE), and aircraft avionic systems components. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup:
119800.


                                                       6
4.2. Duties and Responsibilities:

4.2.1. Avionics Test Station and Components Specialist Apprentice and Journeyman: Analyzes
performance and isolates malfunctions of avionic test equipment, SE, and aircraft components. Performs
operational tests on test equipment, SE, and aircraft components to determine condition, analyze
performance, and isolate malfunctions in the radar, sensors, communications, weapons control, electronic
warfare (EW), and flight control and engine control systems. Traces logic, schematic, test flow, and
wiring diagrams. Uses self-test and software functions, computer and manually operated avionic test
equipment, SE, and test measurement and diagnostic equipment to determine the scope of repair and
adjustment required. Inspects, maintains, programs, and calibrates avionic equipment, SE, and aircraft
components. Removes and replaces assembly components using hand tools, soldering devices, and
electronic instruments. Repairs amplifier and logic circuits; microwave equipment; servomechanisms;
radio frequency circuits; video displays; and power supply circuits. Loads computer programs. Aligns,
calibrates, and modifies avionic test equipment, SE, and aircraft components.

4.2.2. Avionics Test Station and Components Specialist Craftsman: Manages integrated avionic
activities and complies with directives, policies, and procedures. Complies with maintenance standards.
Initiates deficiency reports, maintenance analysis documents, technical data changes, and equipment
records. Interprets, establishes, and complies with training, security, and safety standards. Ensures
compliance with directives governing handling, use, and disposal of hazardous waste and material.
Records information on data collection forms and automated systems. Directs and controls maintenance,
calibration, and inspection of integrated avionic test stations and aircraft components. Plans and
organizes integrated avionic activities. Plans and organizes integrated avionic equipment assembly,
calibration, repair, modification, and maintenance activities. Plans physical layout of facilities, and
ensures SE and spare parts availability.

4.2.3. Maintenance Superintendent: Manages and directs maintenance functions and activities.
Included are areas of avionic sensors, communications and navigation, guidance and control, airborne
warning and control radar, inertial and radar navigation, airborne command post communication systems,
avionic test stations, electronic warfare (EW) systems, and avionic support equipment. Related DoD
Occupational Subgroup: 110200.

5. Career Skill Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to the
superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force's ability to accomplish its mission. It is
essential that everyone involved in training do their part to plan, develop, manage and conduct an
effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will ensure each individual
receives viable training at appropriate points in their career. Use table 8.1 Enlisted Career Path in
conjunction with information below to manage career skill progression.

5.1. Apprentice (3-level): Upon completion of initial skills training, a trainee will work with a trainer to
enhance their knowledge and skills. They will utilize the Career Development Course, Task Qualification
Training and available exportable courses for continued advancement. Once task certified, a trainee may
perform the task unsupervised. Apprentices can be considered for appointment as unit trainers after
completion of a formal trainer course.




                                                      7
5.2. Journeyman (5-level): Once upgraded to the 5-level, the journeyman will enter into continuation
training to broaden their experience base by increasing their knowledge and skill in troubleshooting and
solving more complex problems. Five-levels may be assigned job positions such as quality assurance and
various staff positions. After having 48 months in the Air Force, 5-levels will attend Airman Leadership
School (ALS) to enhance their Professional Military Education (PME). Five-levels will be considered for
appointment as unit trainers. Individuals will use their CDCs to prepare for Weighted Airman Promotion
testing. They should also consider continuing their education toward a Community College of the Air
Force (CCAF) degree.

5.3. Craftsman (7-level): A craftsman can expect to fill various supervisory and management positions
such as shift leader, element NCOIC, flight/section chief, and task certifier. They can also be assigned to
work in staff positions. Craftsmen should take courses to obtain added knowledge on management of
resources and personnel. Continued academic education through CCAF and higher degree programs is
encouraged. In addition, when promoted to TSgt, individuals will complete the Noncommissioned
Officer Academy.

5.4. Superintendent (9-level): A 9-level can be expected to fill positions such as flight chief, production
supervisor, and various staff NCOIC jobs. Additional training in the areas of budget, manpower,
resources, and personnel management should be pursued through continuing education. Additional higher
education and completion of courses outside their career AFSC are also recommended.

6. Training Decisions: The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to encompass
the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Avionic Test Station and Aircraft Components Career
Field. The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet these training requirements.
The strategy must be apparent and affordable training to reduce duplication of training and eliminate a
disjointed approach to training. The following training decisions were made by MAJCOM Functional
Managers and Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) at the career field Utilization and Training Workshop held
at Sheppard AFB, 5-13 April 2012.

6.1. Initial Skills: The working group was tasked with reviewing the entire Specialty Training Standard
of the 2A0X1M career field. Each STS line item was evaluated based on ability and method of training,
redundancy of documentation and applicability. OAR data was used to scrub requirements to determine
whether items were suited for formal training. The 2A0X1S career field was restructured into two shreds:
the 2A0X1M for the B-1, E-8, and F-15 aircraft, and the 2A0X1K for all other aircraft with back shop
maintenance responsibilities. The new 2A031M initial skills course is estimated to be 45 days in length
and will be sufficient to satisfy all initial skills training requirements.

6.2. Five-Level Upgrade Training: The 5-level CDCs will consist of three volumes. Upgrade
requirements also include completion of core tasks and identified work center requirements for their
assigned weapons system. Completion of Advanced Wiring Maintenance Course J4AMP30000 A48A
PDS Code ZIZ per the MAJCOM Mandatory Course List (MMCL) (ANG/AFRC exempt) is also required
for 5-level upgrade. Not applicable to personnel assigned to locations where the course is not yet available
at the local Field Training Detachment (FTD).




                                                     8
6.3. Seven-Level Upgrade Training: Completion of the 2AX7X CDC is required. Airmen in upgrade
training for 2A0X1M 7-level will be task qualified on all core tasks and identified work center
requirements for their assigned weapons system. Completion of Advanced ATLAS CBT (N/A for ARC).

6.4. Continuation Training: All Continuation Training will be accomplished with OJT.

7. Higher Education and Advanced Certification Opportunities. Higher education and advanced
certification is a personal choice that is encouraged for the professional development of the entire Enlisted
Force. Listed below are some current opportunities:

7.1. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Academic Programs. Enrollment in CCAF occurs
upon completion of basic military training (BMT). CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate
in Applied Sciences Degree. In addition to its associate degree program, CCAF offers the following:

7.1.1. CCAF Instructor Certification. CCAF offers the CCAF Instructor Certification (CIC) Program
for qualified instructors who teach CCAF collegiate-level credit awarding courses at a CCAF affiliated
school. The CIC is a professional credential that recognizes the instructor's extensive faculty
development training, education and qualification required to teach a CCAF course, and formally
acknowledges the instructor's practical teaching experience. Qualified officer, enlisted, civilian and other
service instructors are eligible for this certification.

7.1.2. Professional Manager Certification (PMC) Program. CCAF offers the PMC for qualified
senior Air Force enlisted personnel who have demonstrated an advanced level of professional
accomplishment. The purpose of the certification is to recognize the individual’s outstanding education
and training required to lead and manage Air Force personnel and critical national defense assets. The
certification also formally acknowledges the individuals management qualifications and
experience. Qualified Air Force enlisted personnel are eligible for this certification. To learn more and
enroll in the program, visit CCAF’s website at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp.

7.1.3. FAA Airframe and Power Plant (A&P) Certification. CCAF offers the Air Force A&P
Certification Program for active duty, guard and reserve aircraft maintenance technicians in specific
AFSCs. The program is designed to bridge gaps between Air Force education, training and experience
and FAA eligibility requirements per Title 14, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Part 65.77. The
program benefits the Air Force by broadening the skill sets and professional development of our
technicians, producing a more skilled and diverse aircraft maintenance professional. The program
directly supports the mission of CCAF in that FAA certification of our aircraft maintenance technicians
enhances combat readiness, contributes to recruiting and retention and supports career transition of highly
skilled technicians. To learn more and enroll in the program, visit CCAF’s website at
http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp.

7.1.4. Other Certification Programs. CCAF is actively pursuing other licensure and certification
opportunities related to specific career fields. To learn more about other certification opportunities visit
CCAF’s website at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp .




                                                      9
7.2. Degree Requirements: All airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program. Prior to
completing an associate’s degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the following requirements must be
met:
                                                                                                     Semester Hours
Technical Education ................................................................................................. 24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies ........................................................ 6
Physical Education..................................................................................................................4
General Education .................................................................................................... 15
Program Elective ...................................................................................................... 15
     Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and Military
     Studies; or General Education
Total ......................................................................................................................... 64

7.2.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of Technical Core
subject courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours are applied from Technical
Core/Technical Elective courses.

7.2.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Professional military
education and/or civilian management courses.

7.2.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of Basic
Military Training.

7.2.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Courses must meet the definition of General
Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF General Catalog.

7.2.5. Program Electives (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects/courses, including natural
science courses meeting general education application criteria. Six semester hours of CCAF degree-
applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied. See the CCAF
General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science for this specialty.

7.3. AETC Instructor Requirements: Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is
encouraged for all. Individuals desiring to become an AETC Instructor must possess as a minimum an
associate degree or should be actively pursuing an associate degree. Special Duty Assignment (SDA)
requires an AETC instructor candidate to have a CCAF degree or be within one year of completion (45
semester hours). A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern
Association of Colleges and Schools.




                                                                                  10
8. Enlisted Career Path. Table 8.1 identifies career milestones for the 2A0X1 Air Force Specialty.

                                        Table 5.1 Enlisted Career Path
                                                                       Grade Requirements
  Education and Training Requirements                 Rank       Average    Earliest  High Year Of Tenure
                                                                 Sew-On     Sew-On          (HYT)
  Basic Military Training School
  Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)         Amn        6 months
                                                      A1C       16 months
  Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level)
  - Minimum 12 months on-the-job training.
                                                      Amn        6 months
  - Minimum 9 months on-the-job training for
                                                      A1C       16 months     28 months             8 Years
    retrainees.
                                                      SrA         3 years
  - Complete all 5-level core tasks on one MDS.
  - Complete appropriate CDC if/when available.
  Airman Leadership School (ALS)
  - Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service
    or be a SSgt Selectee.
  - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt
    sew-on (Active Duty Only).
                       Trainer                                                   Certifier
  - Qualified and certified to perform the task to   - Be at least a 5-skill level SSgt; and qualified and certified
    be trained.                                        to perform the task being certified
  - Must attend formal OJT Trainer Course            - Attend formal OJT Trainer Course
                                                     - Be a person other than the trainer except for AFSCs, duty
                                                       positions, units and/or work centers with specialized
                                                       training standardization and certification requirements.
  Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)
  - Minimum rank of SSgt.
  - Minimum 12 months on-the-job training.
  - Minimum 6 months on-the-job training for
     retrainees.                                      SSgt      5.1 years       3 years             15 Years
  - Complete all 5- and 7-level core tasks on one
     mission design aircraft.
  - Complete appropriate CDC if/when available.
  - Attend Craftsman course, if applicable.
  Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)              TSgt      11.1 years      5 years             20 Years
  - Must be a TSgt or TSgt Selectee.
  - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt
     sew-on (Active Duty Only).                       MSgt      16.8 years      8 years             24 Years
    USAF Senior NCO Academy
    (SNCOA) - Must be a MSgt or SMSgt
    Selectee .                                       SMSgt       21 years      11 years             26 Years
  - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
     SMSGT sew-on..
  Upgrade To Superintendent (9-Skill Level)
  - Minimum rank of SMSgt.                           CMSgt       24 years      14 years             30 Years




                                                        11
SECTION C - SKILL LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of tasks and
knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each skill level
in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award, and retention of each
skill level. The specific tasks and knowledge training requirements are identified in Part II, Section E,
Specialty Training Standard (STS).

10. Specialty Qualification Requirements.

10.1. Knowledge: Knowledge is mandatory of: electrical theory and avionic fundamentals, including
solid-state, binary, digital, octal, and hexadecimal numbering systems; metrology principles; computer
logic, and programming principles and language; printed circuitry; microwave, radar, and electronic
warfare principles; microminiature solid state devices; operating principles of avionic components
supported by test stations; electrically actuated mechanical device theory; operating principles of basic
measuring and testing devices; interpreting schematic, logic, data flow, and wiring diagrams; interpreting
programming tables and technical publications; using, caring for, and applying special, standard, and
common hand tools; interpreting testing, measuring, and referencing devices; concepts and application of
applicable maintenance directives; Air Force supply procedures; and use and disposal of hazardous waste
and material.

10.2. Education: Completion of high school is desirable with courses in physics, algebra, trigonometry,
and computer principles.

10.3. Training. The following training is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:

10.3.1. 2A031M. Completion of the avionic fundamentals (if applicable) and the apprentice avionic
systems course for the applicable suffix.

10.3.2. 2A051M. Completion of applicable Field Training Detachment (FTD) course(s) listed on the
CAF Mandatory Course List (MCL) IAW AFI 36-2232, Maintenance Training.

10.3.3. 2A071M. Completion of the 2AX7X CDC.

10.4. Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:

10.4.1. 2A051M. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A031M. Also, experience in functions such
as isolating malfunctions, installing line replaceable units, and using AGE necessary to maintain avionic
systems.

10.4.2. 2A071M. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A051M. Also, experience performing or
supervising functions such as installing, maintaining, or inspecting avionic systems.

10.5. For entry into this specialty: Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations
and Standards.



                                                    12
10.6. For award and retention of AFSCs 2A051M/71M, must maintain an Air Force Network License
according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network Professionals.

10.7. Specialty requires routine access to Secret material or similar environment. For award and retention
of AFSCs 2A0X1/X, completion of a current National Agency Check, Local Agency Checks and Credit
(NACLC) according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management.

11. Training Sources:

11.1. Apprentice Level Training: The initial skills courses will provide the required knowledge and
qualification training. Training encompasses basic electronic principles, system theory and operation,
system components and component removal and installation. Additionally, introduction to maintenance
concepts, general flight line maintenance practices, use of technical publications, maintenance
documentation, and support equipment are provided.

11.2. Journeyman Level Training: The 5-level CDC provides the career knowledge training required.
Qualification training and OJT will provide training and qualification on the core tasks identified in the
STS. The CDC is written to build from the trainee's current knowledge base, and provides more in-depth
knowledge to support OJT requirements.

11.3. Craftsman Level Training: Seven-level upgrade training will be conducted by certified trainers
using AF core tasks and unit/MAJCOM specific courses. The 7-level CDCs are written to provide
advanced, management and supervisory knowledge, and troubleshooting skills.

11.4. Superintendent Level Training (9-Level). Unit OJT will be used for training. In addition to 7-level
qualifications, an individual must possess advanced skills and knowledge of concepts and principles in the
management of aircraft maintenance. The 9-level needs to be an effective leader; must be able to forecast,
budget and manage funds and other resources; and must be knowledgeable of federal and local
environmental standards and ensure adherence to the proper handling and disposal of hazardous materials.

SECTION D - RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS

12. Purpose: This section of the CFETP identifies known resource constraints, which preclude optimum
and desired training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and
manpower. Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what
effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section are actions required,
office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource constraints will be, as a minimum,
reviewed and updated annually.

13. Apprentice Level Training. No resource constraints identified.
14. Journeyman Level Training. No resource constraints identified.
15. Craftsman Level Training. No resource constraints identified.

SECTION E – TRANSITIONAL TRAINING GUIDE- There are no transitional requirements this
area is reserved.



                                                    13
PART II

Section A – SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

1. Implementation: The STS will be used for technical training provided by Air Education and Training
Command for classes beginning 3 April 2014. The STS is organized in attachments to this document for
“General” training requirements (applicable to all MDS), and individual attachments for each MDS, Pods
and Avionics Fundamentals.

2. Purpose: As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS (Refer to applicable attachments):

2.1. Lists in column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common tasks, knowledge,
and technical references (TR) necessary for airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level. All
task/knowledge taught in the initial skills courses will be taught in the wartime initial skills courses.

2.2. Identifies in column 2 (Core Tasks), by asterisk (*), specialty-wide training requirements.
Certification on all shop/flight line core tasks must be completed for skill level upgrade. When a base
has multiple MDSs or blocks assigned, trainees are only required to complete core task training on
MDSs or blocks assigned to their unit of assignment.

2.3. Column 3 provides certification for OJT. It is used to record completion of tasks and knowledge
training requirements. Use automated training management systems to document technician
qualifications, if available. Task certification must show a certification/completed date.

2.4. Column 4 (Proficiency Codes) show formal training and correspondence course requirements and
shows the proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as result of training on the
task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course. When two codes are
used in columns 4A and 4B (e.g., 2b/b), the first code is the established requirement for resident training
on the task/knowledge, and the second code indicates the level of training provided in the course due to
equipment shortages or other resource constraints. See CADRE/AFSC/CDC listing maintained by the
unit-training manager for current CDC listing.

3. Qualitative Requirements: Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to indicate the level
of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career development courses.

4. Job Qualification Standard: The STS becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job
training when placed in AF Form 623, On-The-Job Training Record, and used according to AFI 36-2201.
For OJT, the tasks in column 1 are trained and qualified to the go/no go level. "Go" means the individual
can perform the task without assistance and meets local requirements for accuracy, timeliness, and correct
procedures. When used as a JQS, the following requirements apply:

4.1 Documentation. Document and certify completion of training IAW AFI 36-2201. Automated
records, utilizing MIS reflecting this STS is highly encouraged

4.1.1. Transcribing from Old CFETP to New CFETP. All AFJQSs and previous CFETPs are
replaced by this CFETP; therefore, transcribing of all training records to this CFETP STS is mandatory.


                                                     14
Use this CFETP STS (or automated STS) to identify and certify all past and current qualifications.
Document and certify all previous and current training IAW AFI 36-2201.

5. Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKT). The STS serves as a guide for development of promotion tests
used in the Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS). SKTs are developed at the USAF
Occupational Measurement Squadron, by Senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their career
fields. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development team
members as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon study references
listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are in AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion Program.
WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve.

6. Recommendations: Comments and recommendations are invited concerning the quality of training
AETC graduates received. A 782 TRG Customer Service Information Line (CSIL) is available for
supervisors to identify a graduate’s training concerns on tasks/knowledge items listed in this STS. Please
reference specific STS line items and address your comments to: 782CSIL@us.af.mil or call the CSIL at
DSN 736-2574 anytime.

Section B – Course Objectives

7. Introduction. Each proficiency coded STS task or knowledge item taught at the technical school is
measured through the use of an objective. An objective is a written instruction for the student so he or she
knows what is expected of them to successfully complete training on each task. Each objective is
comprised of a condition, behavior, and standard that states what is expected of the student for each task.
The condition is the setting in which the training takes place (i.e. TOs, type of equipment, etc). The
behavior is the observable portion of the objective (i.e. perform an operational check). The standard is the
level of performance that is measured to ensure the STS proficiency code level is attained (i.e. “with no
more than two instructor assists”)

8. Objective Measurement. Each objective uses letter codes(s) to identify how it is measured. All
objectives using the PC code indicate a progress check is used to measure subject or task knowledge. W
indicates a comprehensive written test and is used to measure the subject or task knowledge at the end of
a block of instruction. PC/W indicates a subject or task knowledge progress check and a separate
measurement of both knowledge and performance elements using a written test.

9. Objective Standard. The standard for written examinations is 70%. Standards for performance
objectives are indicated in the objective and are also indicated on the individual progress check checklist.
The checklist is used by the instructor to document each student’s progress, on each task. Instructor
assistance is provided as needed during the progress check, and students may be required to repeat all or
part of the behavior until satisfactory performance is attained. Students must satisfactorily complete all
PCs prior to taking the written test.

10. Proficiency Level. Review column 4A of the STS to determine the proficiency level of a particular
task or knowledge item. Review the proficiency code key in Part II, Section A of this CFETP for an
explanation of the proficiency codes. Most task performance is taught to the ‘2b’ proficiency level which
means the students can do most parts of the task, but does need assistance on the hardest parts of the task
(partially proficient). The student can also determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task.


                                                     15
Section C - Support Material. There are currently no support material requirements. This area is
reserved

Section D - Training Course Index.

11. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the 2A0X1M Systems
Specialty and shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field training programs.
For further information on the following courses, contact the OPR at:

       365 TRS/TRR
       511 9th Ave STE 1
       Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2338
       DSN 736-7901

12. Air Force In-Resident Courses.

 COURSE NO.                 COURSE TITLE                       LOCATION           USER
 E3AQR2A031M048A            Avionics Fundamentals, Test        Keesler AFB        AF
                            Stations and Aircraft
                            Components
 J3ABR2A031M048A            Avionics Test Station and          Sheppard AFB       AF
                            Components, B-1/E-8/F-15

13. Extension Course Program, AU/A4L, Courses (CDCs) website:
 http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/.

COURSE NO.         COURSE TITLE                                                    USER
CDC 2A051M         Avionic Test Station and Aircraft Component Journeyman          AF
CDC 2AX7X          Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman                                 AF


Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements.

The Combat Air Forces Mandatory Course Listing (CAF/MCL) identifies mandatory maintenance training
requirements for initial technical school graduates, retrainees, and personnel with no experience on
assigned mission design series (MDS) aircraft. It also ensures maintenance personnel receive training
commensurate to their current duty position. All CAF/MCL courses will be identified as a priority on the
AF Form 898. The CAF/MCL applies to ACC, AETC, USAFE and PACAF personnel/units. The
CAF/MCL does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
members and units. However, it does apply to Total Force integrated units (Active Duty personnel
assigned to Guard bases). The CAF/MCL is posted to the ACC/A4Q at web site (under “Libraries”):
https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/OO-TE-AC-42.




                                                   16
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL                                  JUDITH A. FEDDER, Lt General, USAF
                                          DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support




Attachments 7
1. Proficiency Code Key (Mandatory)
2. General Training Requirements (Mandatory)
3. B-1 Training Requirements
4. F-15 Training Requirements
5. E-8 Training Requirements
6. Avionics Fundamentals (Mandatory)
7. 2AX7X CDC Requirements (Mandatory)




                                               17
                                                  Proficiency Code Key
                                                                                                             CFETP 2A0X1M

This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee:
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                              Initials (Written)                   SSAN (last 4 only)

                                          Printed Name Of Training/Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                       N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

                                                 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                               Proficiency Code Key
                                  Scale        Definition: The individual
                                  Value
                                    1          IS EXTREMELY LIMITED (Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do
                                               most of the task.)
           Task                     2          IS PARTIALLY PROFICIENT (Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts.)
       Performance                  3          IS COMPETENT (Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work.)
          Levels                    4          IS HIGHLY PROFICIENT (Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show
                                               others how to do the task.)
                                    a          KNOWS NOMENCLATURE (Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. )
         *Task                      b          KNOWS PROCEDURES (Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. )
       Knowledge                    c          KNOWS OPERATING PRINCIPLES (Can identify why and when the task must be done and why
                                               each step is needed.)
          Levels                    d          KNOWS ADVANCED THEORY (Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task.)
                                    A          KNOWS FACTS (Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject.)
        **Subject                   B          KNOWS PRINCIPLES (Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the
                                               subject.)
       Knowledge                    C          KNOWS ANALYSIS (Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject.)
        Levels                      D          KNOWS EVALUATION (Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject.)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of
knowledge for a specific task. (Example: b and 1b)
**A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a subject
common to several tasks.
- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.
/ This mark is used in course columns to show that training is required but not given/reduced due to limitations in resources. (3c/b, 2/b/b, 3c/-, etc.)

X This mark is used alone in course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in
resources.
NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency or knowledge code are trained during wartime.


                                                                                                             Attachment 1


                                                                    18
                                    GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                      2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical       A        B       A              B           C          D           E           A            B                C
References                                                                                                               3           5                7
                                                                                                                       Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                      Level        Level            Level
                                      5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                         Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


2 ATTACHMENT 2, GENERAL
TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
2.1 CAREER LADDER
PROGRESSION TR: AFECD
2.1.1 Progression in career
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
ladder
2.1.2 Duties of AFSC                                                                                                    -           -        -              -
2.2 SECURITY TR: DODR 5200-1;
AFSSI 4100; AFIs 31-401, 21-109,
31-101 Vol 1, 10-1101
2.2.1 COMSEC/EMSEC
2.2.1.1 Security violations
                                                                                                                        A           B        -              -
prevention
2.2.1.2 Identify security
                                                                                                                        A           B        -              -
precautions
2.2.2 Physical Security TR: AFI
31-101V1, DODR 5200-8
2.2.2.1 Classified equipment                                                                                            A           B        -              -
2.2.2.2 Classified information                                                                                          A           B        -              -
2.2.2.3 Command, Control,
Communications and Computer                                                                                             -           -        -              -
(C4) Systems security
2.2.2.4 System security
classification guides. Applicable                                                                                       -           A        -              -
weapons security guides
2.2.2.5 Operational Security
(OPSEC) vulnerabilities of AFSC                                                                                         A           -        -              -
AFI 10-701
2.2.2.6 Destruction of classified
                                                                                                                        -           A        -              -
information
2.3 SUPERVISION TR: AFI 21-
1001, AFPD 21-1, AFI 23-100
series and 22-101, TO 31-175
2.3.1 Perform initial evaluation
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
AFMAN 36-2108, AFI 36-2201 V3
2.3.2 Orient new personnel
AFMAN 36-2108; AFIs 36-2201,                                                                                            -           -        -              -
36-2103
2.4 TRAINING TR: AFI 36-2201
2.4.1 Evaluate personnel to
determine need for training AFI                                                                                         -           -        -              -
36-2201 V3

                                                                 19
                                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                    GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                      2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical       A        B       A              B           C          D           E           A            B                C
References                                                                                                               3           5                7
                                                                                                                       Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                      Level        Level            Level
                                      5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                         Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


2.4.2 Maintain training records
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
AFI 36-2201 V3
2.4.3 Automated training
                                                                                                                        A           -        -              -
records
2.5 AIR FORCE OCCUPATIONAL
SAFETY AND HEALTH (AFOSH)
PROGRAM
2.5.1 Hazards and AFOSH STDS
of AFSC 2A0X1 AFIND 17, AFI                                                                                             A           B        -              -
91-301
2.5.2 Work areas cleanliness
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
and safety AFOSH STD 91-66
2.5.3 Safety Practices when
Working with or in the Vicinity of
2.5.3.1 Electrical power / high
voltage AFOSH STD 91-66; TOs                                                                                            A           B        -              -
31-1-141-1, 33-1-32, 00-25-232
2.5.3.2 Compressed gases
AFOSH STD 91-501; TOs 00-25-                                                                                            A           B        -              -
234, 42B5-1-2, 42B7-3-1-1
2.5.3.3 Hand and power tools
TOs 00-25-234, 32-1-101, 32-1-                                                                                          A           B        -              -
151, 32-1-2
2.5.3.4 Radioactive materials
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
AFOSH STD 48-9, TO 31-1-141-9
2.5.3.5 High intensity sound
                                                                                                                        -           B        -              -
AFOSH STD 48-19
2.5.3.6 Lifting devices AFOSH
                                                                                                                        A           B        -              -
STD 91-46
2.5.3.7 Lasers safety AFOSH
STD 48-139; ANSI Z136-1.1, TOs                                                                                          -           -        -              -
31-1-141-1, 31-1-141-3
2.5.3.8 RF radiation                                                                                                    A           A        -              -
2.5.3.9 RF overexposure                                                                                                 -           A        -              -
2.5.3.10 Cathode-ray Tube
                                                                                                                        -           A        -              -
(CRT)
2.6 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS &
WASTE TR: AFI 32-7042, AFJMAN
23-209, AFOSH STDs 48-8, 91-68,
161-21, 161-21-1G, 161-21-1W,
AFPAM32-7043, TO 42C-1-12
2.6.1 Review MSDS                                                                                                       A           -        -              -
2.6.2 Identification                                                                                                    A           -        -              -
                                                                 20
                                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                    GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                      2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical       A        B       A              B           C          D           E           A            B                C
References                                                                                                               3           5                7
                                                                                                                       Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                      Level        Level            Level
                                      5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                         Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


2.6.3 Handling                                                                                                          A           -        -              -
2.6.4 Storage and labeling                                                                                              A           -        -              -
2.6.5 Disposal                                                                                                          A           -        -              -
2.6.6 Waste minimization                                                                                                A           -        -              -
2.7 TECHNICAL PUBLICATIONS
TR: AFPD 21-3; TOs 0-1-01, 00-5-
1, 00-5-2, 00-5-3, 00-5-16, 00-5-
17, 00-25-06-2-2, 51-1-06-1, 80-
0-1
2.7.1 Standard publications AFI
                                                                                                                        -           A        -              -
33-360 V1
2.7.2 USAF TO system
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
management
2.7.3 USAF TO system function
and application TOs 00-5-1, 00-                                                                                         A           A        -              -
5-15, 00-5-18
2.7.4 Computer Program
Identification Number (CPIN)
System/Automated Computer
Identification Number (ACPIN)                                                                                           A           A        -              -
System TOs 00-5-1, 00-5-16, 00-
5-17, 00-5-18, AFI 10-703 and
applicable data
2.7.5 Time compliance TO                                                                                                -           A        -              -
2.7.6 Methods and procedures
                                                                                                                        -           A        -              -
TOs TO 00-5-1
2.7.7 TO deficiency reporting
                                                                                                                        -           A        -              -
procedures TO 00-5-1
2.7.8 Electronic technical
                                                                                                                        -                    -              -
publications
2.7.9 Use TOs to Perform: TR:
Applicable TOs
2.7.9.1 Maintenance                     *                                                                              2b           A        -              -
2.7.9.2 Part number research            *                                                                              2b           -        -              -
2.7.9.3 Schematics wiring/block
                                        *                                                                              2b           -        -              -
diagrams and logic trees
2.8 AIR FORCE SUPPLY
DISCIPLINE TR: AFI 21-101
2.8.1 Supply discipline AFMAN
                                                                                                                        A           A        -              -
23-110 Vol 2, Pt 13
2.8.2 Use supply cross
references USAF S-2A-1, Us                                                                                             2b           -        -              -
Federal Logistics Data (FEDLOG),

                                                                 21
                                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                    GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                      2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical       A        B       A              B           C          D           E           A            B                C
References                                                                                                               3           5                7
                                                                                                                       Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                      Level        Level            Level
                                      5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                         Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


D043
2.9 SUPPLY PROCEDURES
2.9.1 Asset requisition/turn-In
AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Pt 13,                                                                                             -           A        -              -
Chapt-3, Attach -3A-3
2.9.2 AF Form 2005                                                                                                     2b           -        -              -
2.9.3 Complete condition tags           *                                                                              2b           -        -              -
2.9.4 Product Improvement
2.9.4.1 Deficiency reports TO
                                                                                                                        -           A        -              -
00-35D-54, AFSCM 21-578, Vol 2
2.9.4.2 Input/review DR data in
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
DREAMS
2.9.4.3 Warranty AFM 64-110                                                                                             -           A        -              -
2.10 MAINTENANCE
MANAGEMENT AND INSPECTION
TR: AFIs 21-101,38-101
2.10.1 Duties and
responsibilities of shop                                                                                                -           -        -              -
personnel
2.10.2 Levels of maintenance
                                                                                                                        A           A        -              -
AFI 21-101
2.10.3 Basic functions and
responsibilities within the
                                                                                                                        A           A        -              -
maintenance organization AFIs
21-101, 38-101
2.10.4 Logistics and Resource
Management
2.10.4.1 Introduction to
maintenance resource                                                                                                    A           -        -              -
management
2.10.4.2 Logistics management
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
AFIs 21-101
2.10.4.3 Resource management
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
AFI 65-601, Vol 1
2.10.5 Status reports AFI 21-
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
103
2.10.6 Maintenance incident
report and prevention AFIs 91-                                                                                          -           A        -              -
202, 91-204, 91-206
2.10.7 Mobility AFH 10-416;
AFIs 10-215, 10-403; AFMAN 10-                                                                                          -           -        -              -
100


                                                                 22
                                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                    GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                      2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical       A        B       A              B           C          D           E           A            B                C
References                                                                                                               3           5                7
                                                                                                                       Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                      Level        Level            Level
                                      5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                         Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


2.10.8 Maintenance, Inspection
Systems and Forms TR: TO 00-
20-1, 00-20-14
2.10.8.1 Inspections systems                                                                                            A           A        -              -
2.10.8.2 Use of Maintenance
Forms TR: TO 00-20-1
2.10.8.2.1 AFTO Form 350                *                                                                              2b           -        -              -
2.10.8.2.2 AFTO Form 349                                                                                                -           -        -              -
2.10.8.2.3 AFTO Form 244                *                                                                              2b           A        -              -
2.10.8.2.4 AFTO Form 95                                                                                                 -           A        -              -
2.10.8.2.5 Calibration forms                                                                                           2b           A        -              -
2.10.8.2.6 Document
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
automated forms
2.11 JOB DATA
DOCUMENTATION (JDD) (IMDS)
2.11.1 Historical records                                                                                               -           -        -              -
2.11.2 Status reports                                                                                                   -           -        -              -
2.11.3 Configuration
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
management AFI 21-101
2.12 MAINTENANCE DATA
DOCUMENTATION (MDD)
2.12.1 Fundamentals and
                                                                                                                        A           B        -              -
application of MDD TO 00-20-2
2.12.2 Reliability, Availability,
Maintainability Pod (RAMPOD)
TR: TOs 33D7-3-326-8-1, 12P3-
2A-198-1: CPIN
2.12.2.1 Global eye principles                                                                                          A           -        -              -
2.12.2.2 Perform maintenance
                                        *                                                                               b           -        -              -
transactions
2.12.2.3 Perform maintenance
                                        *                                                                               b           -        -              -
inquiries
2.12.3 G081
2.12.3.1 Principles                                                                                                     -           -        -              -
2.12.3.2 Maintenance
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
transactions
2.12.3.3 Maintenance inquiries                                                                                          -           -        -              -
2.12.3.4 Supply transactions                                                                                            -           -        -              -
2.12.4 Integrated Maintenance
Data System (IMDS)
2.12.4.1 IMDS principles                                                                                               A            B        -              -
2.12.4.2 Maintenance                                                                                                   2b           B        -              -
                                                                 23
                                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                    GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                      2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical       A        B       A              B           C          D           E           A            B                C
References                                                                                                               3           5                7
                                                                                                                       Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                      Level        Level            Level
                                      5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                         Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


transactions
2.12.4.3 Maintenance inquiries                                                                                         2b           -        -              -
2.12.4.4 Supply transactions                                                                                           2b           B        -              -
2.12.4.5 Management/
supervision/ training                                                                                                   -           -        -              -
transactions
2.13 METROLOGY PRINCIPLES
2.13.1 Use calibration
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
correction charts
2.13.2 Calibrate torque devices                                                                                         -           -        -              -
2.13.3 Traceability                                                                                                     -           -        -              -
2.13.4 Portable Automatic Test
Equipment Calibrator (PATEC)
2.13.4.1 PATEC characteristics                                                                                         A            B        -              -
2.13.4.2 Operation                                                                                                     2b           -        -              -
2.14 GENERAL MAINTENANCE
PRACTICES
2.14.1 Corrosion control                                                                                                A           -        -              -
2.14.1.1 Clean equipment                                                                                                -           -        -              -
2.14.1.2 Lubricate equipment                                                                                            -           -        -              -
2.14.1.3 Inspect equipment                       *                                                                      -           -        -              -
2.14.1.4 Pack/unpack LRUs                                                                                               -           -        -              -
2.14.2 Perform safety wiring TO
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
00-25-234
2.14.3 Clean optical surfaces
                                                                                                                       2b           -        -              -
IAW system level TO
2.14.4 Remove and replace
                                                                                                                       2b           -        -              -
SRUs
2.14.5 Cable Repair TR: TO 00-
25-234
2.14.5.1 Perform cable lacing                                                                                           -           -        -              -
2.14.5.2 Perform video splicing                                                                                         -           -        -              -
2.14.5.3 Perform connector
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
potting
2.14.6 Coaxial Cable
2.14.6.1 Repair                                                                                                         -           -        -              -
2.14.6.2 Fabricate                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
2.14.7 Multipin
Connectors/Cables
2.14.7.1 Repair                         *                                                                               -           -        -              -
2.14.7.2 Fabricate                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
2.14.8 Tools TR: TO AFI 21-101

                                                                 24
                                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                    GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                      2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical       A        B       A              B           C          D           E           A            B                C
References                                                                                                               3           5                7
                                                                                                                       Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                      Level        Level            Level
                                      5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                         Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


2.14.8.1 Inventory Composite
                                        *                                                                              2b           -        -              -
Tool Kits (CTKs) AFI 21-101
2.14.8.2 Inspect Composite Tool
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
Kits (CTK)
2.14.8.3 Tool accountability
                                                                                                                        -           A        -              -
AFI 21-101
2.14.8.4 Use common hand
tools AFOSHSTD 91-501, TO 32-           *                                                                              2b           -        -              -
1-101
2.14.8.5 Use torque wrenches
TO 32B14-3-1-101, Applicable            *                                                                              2b           B        -              -
Systems TOs
2.14.9 Electrostatic Sensitive
Device (ESD) TR: DoD HDBK 263,
DoD STD 1686, MIL STD-129, TO
00-25-234
2.14.9.1 Electrostatic Sensitive
                                                                                                                        -           B        -              -
Discharge (ESD) Principles
2.14.9.2 Perform Electrostatic
Sensitive Discharge (ESD)                                                                                              2b           -        -              -
Procedures
2.15 DIRECT SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT
2.15.1 Test Equipment Care and
Handling TR: TO 00-85B-3, 1-1A-
15, 31-1-141-14, 42C-1-1
2.15.1.1 Prepare for shipment                                                                                           -           -        -              -
2.15.1.2 Prepare for storage                                                                                            -           -        -              -
2.15.1.3 Prepare for climate
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
conditions
2.16 DATA TRANSFER
EQUIPMENT
2.16.1 Data transfer principles                                                                                         -           A        -              -
2.16.2 Operate data transfer
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
equipment
2.16.3 SERENE
                                                                                                                        -           A        -              -
BYTE/PACERWARE principles
2.17 ELECTRONIC WARFARE
COMBAT FUNDAMENTALS
2.17.1 Principles                                                                                                       A           -        -              -
2.17.2 Component types                                                                                                  A           -        -              -
2.18 RF FUNDAMENTALS
2.18.1 Principles                                                                                                       A           B        -              -
                                                                 25
                                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                    GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                      2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical       A        B       A              B           C          D           E           A            B                C
References                                                                                                               3           5                7
                                                                                                                       Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                      Level        Level            Level
                                      5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                         Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


2.18.2 Component types                                                                                                  A           B        -              -
2.18.3 Isolate/identify RF
                                                                                                                        A           B        -              -
malfunctions
2.19 TEST STATION PRINCIPLES
TR: Applicable Test Station TO
2.19.1 Power distribution                                                                                               A           A        -              -
2.19.2 Emergency shutdown                                                                                               -           -        -              -
2.19.3 Stimulus devices                                                                                                 A           A        -              -
2.19.4 Measurement devices                                                                                              A           A        -              -
2.19.5 Computer control                                                                                                 A           A        -              -
2.19.6 Bus communications
                                                                                                                        A           A        -              -
standard
2.19.7 Signal routing                                                                                                   A           A        -              -
2.20 SOFTWARE SYSTEM
2.20.1 Theory of System
Software Functions TR: Use
Aircraft Specific TOs
2.20.1.1 Control & Support
(C&S) software
2.20.1.1.1 Test Operating
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
System (TOS)
2.20.1.1.2 Test Executive (TEX)                                                                                         -           -        -              -
2.20.1.1.3 On-Line Compiler
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
(OLC)
2.20.1.1.4 File Manager (FMX)                                                                                           -           -        -              -
2.20.1.1.5 Change Analysis
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
(CAP)
2.20.1.2 Utility Programs
2.20.1.2.1 Find align                                                                                                   -           -        -              -
2.20.1.2.2 CALS mods                                                                                                    -           -        -              -
2.20.2 Software Procedures
2.20.2.1 Execute Software
Commands
2.20.2.1.1 Control & Support
Software
2.20.2.1.1.1 TOS                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
2.20.2.1.1.2 TEX                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
2.20.2.1.1.3 OLC                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
2.20.2.1.1.4 CAP                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
2.20.2.1.1.5 FMX                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
2.20.2.1.2 Test Software
2.20.2.1.2.1 ATE                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
                                                                 26
                                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                    GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                      2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical       A        B       A              B           C          D           E           A            B                C
References                                                                                                               3           5                7
                                                                                                                       Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                      Level        Level            Level
                                      5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                         Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


2.20.2.1.2.2 ITA                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
2.20.2.1.2.3 LRU                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
2.20.2.1.3 Utility Programs
2.20.2.1.3.1 Find align                                                                                                 -           -        -              -
2.20.2.1.3.2 CALS mods                                                                                                  -           -        -              -
2.20.2.2 Use software
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
commands to isolate faults
2.21 TEST LANGUAGES TR: TOs
33D7-38-111-1-3, 33D7-38-111-
18-1, 33D7-38-111-82; NA-84-
110H
2.21.1 Non-Test Statement
Analysis
2.21.1.1 Data declaration                                                                                              2b           A        -              -
2.21.1.2 Calculate/compare                                                                                             2b           A        -              -
2.21.1.3 Decision/branching                                                                                            2b           A        -              -
2.21.1.4 Input/output/delay                                                                                            2b           A        -              -
2.21.2 Test statement analysis
2.21.2.1 Analog stimulus                                                                                               2b           A        -              -
2.21.2.2 Analog measurement                                                                                            2b           A        -              -
2.21.2.3 Digital test                                                                                                  2b           A        -              -
2.21.3 Protocol theory                                                                                                 2b           A        -              -
2.21.4 System procedures                                                                                               2b           A        -              -
2.21.5 Program structure                                                                                               2b           A        -              -
2.22 USE TEST EQUIPMENT TR:
Applicable Equipment
TO(s)/Manuals
2.22.1 Universal counter                                                                                                -           -        -              -
2.22.2 Power meter                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
2.22.3 Frequency counter                                                                                                -           -        -              -
2.22.4 Scalar network analyzer                                                                                          -           -        -              -
2.22.5 Pulse generator                                                                                                  -           -        -              -
2.22.6 Sweep oscillator                                                                                                 -           -        -              -
2.22.7 Radio frequency
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
radiation monitor
2.22.8 Oscilloscope                                                                                                     -           -        -              -
2.22.9 Spectrum analyzer                                                                                                -           -        -              -
2.22.10 Signal generator                                                                                                -           -        -              -
2.23 AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS
THEORY
2.23.1 Radar systems                                                                                                    A           B        -              -
2.23.2 Navigation Systems

                                                                 27
                                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                    GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                      2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical       A        B       A              B           C          D           E           A            B                C
References                                                                                                               3           5                7
                                                                                                                       Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                      Level        Level            Level
                                      5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                         Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


2.23.2.1 Inertial Navigation
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
(INS)
2.23.2.2 Tactical Air Navigation
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
(TACAN)
2.23.2.3 Global Positioning
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
System (GPS)
2.23.2.4 Identification Friend or
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
Foe (IFF)
2.23.2.5 Visual Omni
Range/Instrument Landing
System/Microwave Landing                                                                                                -           -        -              -
System (VOR/ILS/MLS)
2.23.2.6 Radio/RADAR altimeter                                                                                          -           -        -              -
2.23.2.7 Compass systems                                                                                                -           -        -              -
2.23.3 Flight control systems                                                                                           -           A        -              -
2.23.4 Weapons delivery
                                                                                                                        -           A        -              -
systems
2.23.5 Embedded GPS/INS                                                                                                 -           A        -              -
2.23.6 Communication Systems
2.23.6.1 UHF                                                                                                            -           -        -              -
2.23.6.2 VHF                                                                                                            -           -        -              -
2.23.6.3 HF                                                                                                             -           -        -              -
2.23.6.4 Interphone/PA system                                                                                           A           B        -              -
2.23.7 Air data systems                                                                                                 A           B        -              -
2.23.8 Electronic counter
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
measures
2.23.9 Flight instruments                                                                                               -           A        -              -
2.23.10 Bussing and multiplex
                                                                                                                        -           A        -              -
systems
2.23.11 Avionic integration and
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
control systems
2.23.12 Displays                                                                                                        A           B        -              -
2.23.13 Propulsion
Management Systems
2.23.13.1 Theory                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
2.24 COMMON MANUAL
SYSTEMS
2.24.1 Communication Systems
2.24.1.1 UHF
2.24.1.1.1 UHF System
(AN/ARC164(C))
2.24.1.1.1.1 Radio Test Set

                                                                 28
                                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                    GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                      2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical       A        B       A              B           C          D           E           A            B                C
References                                                                                                               3           5                7
                                                                                                                       Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                      Level        Level            Level
                                      5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                         Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


2.24.1.1.1.1.1 Theory of
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
operation
2.24.1.1.1.1.2 Operate                                                                                                  -           -        -              -
2.24.1.1.1.1.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
malfunctions
2.24.1.1.1.2 UHF R/T TR: TOs
12R2-2ARC164-Series
2.24.1.1.1.2.1 Theory of
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
operation
2.24.1.1.1.2.2 Perform
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
maintenance testing
2.24.1.1.1.2.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
malfunctions
2.24.1.1.1.3 Radio Set Control
TR: TOs 12R2-2ARC164-32, 12R2-
2ARC164-92
2.24.1.1.1.3.1 Theory of
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
operation
2.24.1.1.1.3.2 Perform
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
maintenance testing
2.24.1.1.1.3.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
malfunctions
2.24.1.1.1.4 Channel Frequency
Indicator TR: TO 12R2-2ARC164-
32
2.24.1.1.1.4.1 Theory of
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
operation
2.24.1.1.1.4.2 Performance
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
maintenance testing
2.24.1.1.1.4.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
malfunctions
2.24.1.2 VHF
2.24.1.2.1 Perform
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
maintenance
2.24.1.2.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
malfunctions
2.24.1.3 HF
2.24.1.3.1 Perform
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
maintenance
2.24.1.3.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
malfunctions
2.24.2 Tactical Air Navigation
(TACAN) Mount TR: TO 12R5-4-

                                                                 29
                                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                    GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                      2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical       A        B       A              B           C          D           E           A            B                C
References                                                                                                               3           5                7
                                                                                                                       Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                      Level        Level            Level
                                      5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                         Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


106-8-3
2.24.2.1 Operational check                                                                                              -           -        -              -
2.24.2.2 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                            -           -        -              -
2.24.3 Tactical Air Navigation
(TACAN) R/T TR: TO 12R5-4-106-
8-3
2.24.3.1 Operational check                                                                                              -           -        -              -
2.24.3.2 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                            -           -        -              -




                                                                 30
                                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                     B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                     2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                       A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                        3           5                7
                                                                                                                      Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                     Level        Level            Level
                                     5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                         Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3 ATTACHMENT 3, B-1
TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
For upgrade to 5-level,
personnel must complete the
following: 1) all core tasks in
attachment 2; 2) all core tasks in
either the REW or DAV section;
3) all core tasks on USTB. For
upgrade to 7-level, personnel
must complete the following: 1)
all core tasks in attachment 2; 2)
all core tasks in B-1 Common
Test Station; 3) all core tasks in
either the REW or DAV section;
4) all core tasks on USTB.
3.1 B-1 GENERAL
MAINTENANCE PROCEDURES
3.1.1 Basic interface test
adapter isolate/repair                                                                                                 -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.1.2 Perform Periodic
Inspections
3.1.2.1 30 day                                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.1.2.2 180 day                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.1.2.3 360 day                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.1.3 Perform nuclear hardness
maintenance and inspections                                                                                            -           -        -              -
applicable LRU TO
3.2 B-1 COMMON TEST
STATION COMPONENTS,
DIGITAL (DIG , DAV, REW) TR:
TOs 33D7-3-256-1, 33D7-3-256-
8-1, 33D7-33-194-1,
3.2.1 Theory of Operation
3.2.1.1 Power and Control
(P&C) module
3.2.1.1.1 Control System
3.2.1.1.1.1 Disk storage units                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.2.1.1.1.2 Computer system                                                                                            A           A        -              -
3.2.1.1.2 Power distribution
                                                                                                                       A           A        -              -
system
3.2.1.1.3 Cooling system                                                                                               A           A        -              -
3.2.1.2 Sub-Instrument Module
(SIM)
3.2.1.2.1 Power distribution                                                                                           A           A        -              -
                                                                 31
                                                                                                                              Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


system
3.2.1.2.2 Digital subsystem                                                                                           A           A        -              -
3.2.1.2.3 Stimulus subsystem                                                                                          A           A        -              -
3.2.1.2.4 Measurement
                                                                                                                      A           A        -              -
subsystem
3.2.1.2.5 Switching subsystem                                                                                         A           A        -              -
3.2.1.3 Self Test Adapter (STA)                                                                                       A           A        -              -
3.2.1.4 Wire run list and wiring
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
diagrams
3.2.2 Operate Test Station and
Associated Equipment to:
3.2.2.1 Load/execute
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
application programs
3.2.2.2 Perform turn-on
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
procedure
3.2.2.3 Perform standby
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
procedure
3.2.2.4 Perform shutdown
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
procedure
3.2.2.5 Perform CONF                                                                                                  -           A        -              -
3.2.2.6 Perform ALIN                                                                                                  -           A        -              -
3.2.2.7 Perform DIAG                                                                                                  -           A        -              -
3.2.2.8 Perform Calibration
Using:
3.2.2.8.1 CALS                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.2.2.9 PERFORM PERIODIC
INSPECTIONS
3.2.2.9.1 30 DAY                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
3.2.2.9.2 180 DAY                                                                                                     -           -        -              -
3.2.2.10 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.2.2.10.1 Power & Control
Module
3.2.2.10.1.1 Power distribution                 *                                                                     -           -        -              -
3.2.2.10.1.2 LRU
                                                *                                                                     -           -        -              -
power/switching
3.2.2.10.1.3 Test station power                 *                                                                     -           -        -              -
3.2.2.10.1.4 Cooling system                                                                                           -           -        -              -
3.2.2.10.2 Sub-Instrument
Module
3.2.2.10.2.1 Digital subsystem                 *                                                                      -           -        -              -
3.2.2.10.2.2 Measurement                       *
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
subsystem
3.2.2.10.2.3 Stimulus                          *                                                                      -           -        -              -

                                                                32
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


subsystem
3.2.2.10.2.4 Switching                         *
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
subsystem
3.2.2.10.2.5 Power distribution                *                                                                      -           -        -              -
3.3 DIGITAL ANALOG VIDEO
SECTION (DAV)
3.3.1 Advanced Digital Test
Station (ADTS) TR: TO 33D7-24-
36-1
3.3.1.1 Theory of Operations
3.3.1.1.1 AC power and cooling                                                                                        A           B        -              -
3.3.1.1.2 System controller and
                                                                                                                      A           B        -              -
interface
3.3.1.1.3 UUT power interlock
                                                                                                                      A           B        -              -
and temp monitoring
3.3.1.1.4 Test instruments                                                                                            A           B        -              -
3.3.1.1.5 Software                                                                                                    A           B        -              -
3.3.1.1.6 Perform power-
                                      *                                                                              2b           -        -              -
up/power-down procedures
3.3.1.1.7 Perform emergency
                                      *                                                                              2b           -        -              -
shutdown
3.3.1.1.8 Perform confidence
                                      *                                                                              2b           -        -              -
test
3.3.1.1.9 Perform interactive
                                      *                                                                              2b           -        -              -
test
3.3.1.2 Functional Test
3.3.1.2.1 Perform Functional
                                      *                                                                              2b           -        -              -
Verification Test (FVT)
3.3.1.3 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.3.1.3.1 AC power and cooling                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.3.1.3.2 System controller and
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
interfaces
3.3.1.3.3 UUT power Interlock
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
and temp monitoring
3.3.1.3.4 Test instruments                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.3.1.3.5 Software                                                                                                    -           -        -              -
3.3.2 Perform Periodic
Inspections TR: 33D7-24-36-1
3.3.2.1 30 Day                        *                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.3.2.2 365 Day                                *                                                                      -           -        -              -
3.3.2.3 Perform preventative
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
maintenance procedures
3.3.2.4 Perform calibrations
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
procedures
                                                                33
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3.4 B-1 DIGITAL ANALOG VIDEO
(DAV) TEST STATION TR: TOs
33A1-5-486-1, 33D7-
3.4.1 Theory of Operation
3.4.1.1 Video/pneumatic
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
module
3.4.1.2 Wire run list and wiring
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
diagrams
3.4.1.3 Peculiar ATLAS                                                                                                -           -        -              -
3.4.2 Operate Test Station and
Associated Equipment to:
3.4.2.1 Perform turn-on
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
procedure
3.4.2.2 Perform standby
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
procedure
3.4.2.3 Perform shutdown
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
procedure
3.4.2.4 Perform CONF                  *                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.4.2.5 Perform DIAG                  *                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.4.2.6 Perform ALIN                  *                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.4.3 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.4.3.1 Video/pneumatic
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
module
3.4.4 Perform Periodic
Inspections
3.4.4.1 30 Day                        *                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.4.4.2 180 Day                                *                                                                      -           -        -              -
3.5 B-1 DAV/ADTS LRU/TEST
PROGRAM SET (TPS)
MAINTENANCE
3.5.1 10 Channel Proximity
Switch Electronic Unit TR: TOs
8S-1-112, 8S-1-118-1, 33D7-61-
98-1
3.5.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
3.5.1.2 Operational check                                                                                             -           -        -              -
3.5.1.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.1.4 Calibrate TPS                                                                                                 -           -        -              -
3.5.2 20 Channel Proximity
Switch Electronic Unit TR: TOs
8S-1-122, 8S-1-128-1, 33D7-50-
1164-1
3.5.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
                                                                34
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3.5.2.2 Operational check                                                                                             -           -        -              -
3.5.2.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.2.4 Calibrate TPS                                                                                                 -           -        -              -
3.5.3 Avionic Computer Control
(ACC) TR: TOs 11B10-25-5-2,
11B10-25-5-8-1, 33D7-50-1113-
1
3.5.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
3.5.3.2 Operational check             *                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.5.3.3 Isolate/repair
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.4 Automatic Flight Control
System (AFCS)/Surface
Movement Control System
(SMCS) Logic Controller TR: TOs
5A9-8-7-2, 5A9-8-7-8-1, 33D7-
50-788-1
3.5.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
3.5.4.2 Operational check                                                                                             -           -        -              -
3.5.4.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.5 AFCS/Trim Controller TR:
TOs 5A9-8-11-2, 5A9-8-11-8-1,
33D7-50-820-1
3.5.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
3.5.5.2 Operational check                                                                                             -           -        -              -
3.5.5.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.6 Airspeed Mach Number
Indicator TR: TOs 5F8-2-73-3,
5F8-2-73-8-1, 33D7-50-812-1
3.5.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
3.5.6.2 Operational check                                                                                             -           -        -              -
3.5.6.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.7 Antenna Memory Module
3.5.7.1 Theory of Operation
3.5.7.1.1 TPS                                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.5.7.1.2 LRU                                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.5.7.1.3 Operational check                                                                                           -           -        -              -
3.5.7.2 Reprogram
3.5.7.2.1 TPS                                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.5.7.2.2 LRU                                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.5.8 Aural Tone Generator TR:
                                                                35
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


TOs 8D15-10-8-2, 8D15-10-8-8-
1, 33D7-50-810-1
3.5.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
3.5.8.2 Operational check                                                                                             -           -        -              -
3.5.8.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.9 Altitude-Vertical Velocity
Indicator (AVVI) TR: TOs 5N8-11-
3-2, 5N8-11-3-8-1, 33D7-50-811-
1
3.5.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
3.5.9.2 Operational check                                                                                             -           -        -              -
3.5.9.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.10 Bomb Navigation
Auxiliary Control TR: TOs 11B12-
6-10-2, 11B12-6-10-8-1, 33D3-4-
157-1
3.5.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.10.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.10.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.11 Bomb Navigation
Control TR: TOs 11B12-6-9-2,
11B12-6-9-8-1, 33D3-4-157-1
3.5.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.11.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.11.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.12 Beam Steering Controller
TR: TOs 12P1-4-35-2, 12P1-4-35-
8-1, 33D7-50-1206-1
3.5.12.1 Theory of Operation
3.5.12.1.1 TPS                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.5.12.1.2 LRU                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.5.12.1.3 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.12.2 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.5.12.2.1 TPS                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.5.12.2.2 LRU                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.5.13 Central Air Data
Computer (CADC) TR: TOs 5F5-4-
35-2, 5F5-4-35-8-1, 33D7-50-
809-1
3.5.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
                                                                36
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3.5.13.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.13.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.14 Central Power Supply
TR: TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-162,
12P3-2ALQ161-158-1, 33D7-50-
1315-1
3.5.14.1 Theory of Operation
3.5.14.1.1 TPS                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.5.14.1.2 LRU                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.5.14.1.3 Operational check                                                                                         2b           -        -              -
3.5.14.2 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.5.14.2.1 TPS                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.5.14.2.2 LRU                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.5.15 C and D Power Supply
TR: TOs 11B12-30-3-2, 11B12-
30-3-8-1, 33D3-4-157-1
3.5.15.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.15.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.15.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.16 CITS Control and Display
Panel (CCD) TR: TOs 5A13-5-21-
2, 5A13-5-21-8-1, 33D7-50-783-
1
3.5.16.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.16.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.16.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.17 CITS Data Acquisition
Unit (DAU) TR: TOs 5F22-32-2,
5F22-32-8-1, 33D7-50-1264-1
3.5.17.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.17.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.17.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.18 CITS Data Conversion
Unit (DCU) TR: TOs 5F22-30-2,
5F22-30-8-1, 33D7-50-871-1
3.5.18.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.18.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.18.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.19 Coolant Temperature
                                                                37
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


Controller TR: TOs 15A5-2-27-2,
15A5-2-27-8-1, 33D7-50-835-1
3.5.19.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.19.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.19.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.20 Countermeasure (CM)
Dispense Control TR: TOs 12P3-
4-87-2, 12P3-4-87-8-1, 33D7-13-
101-1
3.5.20.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.20.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.20.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.21 Constant Speed Drive
(CSD) TR: TOs 35CA17-19-2,
35CA-17-19-8-1
3.5.21.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.21.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.21.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.22 Conventional Station
Logic Unit (SLU) TR: TOs 11B47-
12-5-2, 11B47-12-5-8-1, 33D7-
61-103-1
3.5.22.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.22.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.22.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.23 Core RPM and Nozzle
Indicator TR: TOs 5L6-2-97-2,
5L6-2-97-8-1, 33D7-50-813-1
3.5.23.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.23.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.23.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.24 Crew Aft Air
Temperature Controller TR: TOs
15A1-3-43-2, 15A1-3-43-8-1,
33D7-50-837-1
3.5.24.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.24.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.24.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.25 Digital Computer (DC)
                                                                38
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


TR: TOs 11B10-7-9-2, 11B10-7-9-
8-1, 33D7-3-273-1
3.5.25.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.25.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.25.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.26 Digital Fuel Tank
Quantity Select Indicator
3.5.26.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.26.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.26.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.27 Defensive System
Operator (DSO) Power Panel TR:
TOs 11B10-25-7-2, 11B10-25-7-
8-1, 33D3-4-157-1
3.5.27.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.27.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.27.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.28 Electronic Beamformer
Unit (EBU) bands 6, 7, 8 TR: TOs
12P3-2ALQ161-312, 12P3-
2ALQ161-318-1, 33D7-50-1306-
1
3.5.28.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.28.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.28.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.29 Electronic Controller
Secondary Power System (SPS)
TR: TOs 8D3-3-3-2, 8D3-3-3-8-1,
33D7-50-1077-1
3.5.29.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.29.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.29.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.30 Electronic Display Unit
(EDU) TR: TOs 11B10-7-10-2,
11B10-7-10-8-1, 33D7-77-65-1
3.5.30.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.30.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.30.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.31 Electronic Marker
                                                                39
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


Generator (EMG) TR: TOs
11B10-25-6, 11B10-25-6-8-1,
33D7-50-1244-1
3.5.31.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.31.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.31.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.32 Electrical Multiplexing
(EMUX) Controller TR: TOs 5F27-
2-2, 5F27-2-8-1, 33D7-50-827-1
3.5.32.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.32.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.32.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.32.4 Load/verify OFP                                                                                              -           -        -              -
3.5.33 EMUX Digital Remote
Terminal (EMUX/DRT) TR: TOs
5A9-8-8-2, 5A9-8-8-8-1, 33D7-
50-825-1
3.5.33.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.33.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.34 Electrical Multiplexing
(EMUX) CITS Interface Box TR:
TOs 5F6-6-4-2, 5F6-6-4-8-1,
33D7-50-1024-1
3.5.34.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.34.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.34.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.35 Engine Instrument Signal
Conditioner
3.5.35.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.35.2 Operational check            *                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.5.35.3 Isolate/repair
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.36 Engine Fuel Flow
Indicator TR: TOs 5L6-2-67-2,
5L6-2-67-8-1, 33D7-50-1023-1
3.5.36.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.36.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.36.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.37 Engine Power Level
Indicator TR: TOs 5L6-2-67-2,
5L6-2-67-8-2, 33D7-50-816-1
                                                                40
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3.5.37.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.37.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.37.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.38 Engine Temperature
Indicator TR: TOs 5L6-2-67-2,
5L6-2-67-8-5, 33D7-50-888-1
3.5.38.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.38.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.38.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.39 Electronic Signal
Amplifier (ESA) TR: TOs 12P1-4-
40-2, 12P1-4-40-8-1, 33D7-50-
1501-1
3.5.39.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.39.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.39.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.40 Electrical Power
Generation System (EPGS)
Generator Control Unit (GCU)
TR: TOs 8C3-5-4-2, 8C3-5-4-8-1,
8C7-2-53-1, 33D7-50-1608-1
3.5.40.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.40.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.40.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.41 Fan RPM Indicator TR:
TOs 5L6-2-
3.5.41.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.41.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.41.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.42 Fuel Center of Gravity
Management System (FCGMS)
Center of Gravity and Total Fuel
Indicator TR: TOs 5L1-3-12-2,
5L1-3-12-8-1, 33D7-50-1025-1
3.5.42.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.42.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.42.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.43 FCGMS Intermediate
Device TR: TOs 5L13-2-26-2,
                                                                41
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


5L13-2-26-8-1, 33D7-50-786-1
3.5.43.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.43.2 Operational check            *                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.5.43.3 Isolate/repair
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.43.4 Calibrate TPS                         *                                                                      -           -        -              -
3.5.43.5 Load/verify OFP                                                                                              -           -        -              -
3.5.44 Fill Controller and Fuel
Quantity Indicator
3.5.44.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.44.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.44.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.45 Flap/Slat Controller TR:
TOs 5A9-8-12-2, 5A9-8-12-8-1,
33D7-50-819-1
3.5.45.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.45.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.45.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.46 Flight Director Computer
Monitor (FDCM) TR: TOs 5N5-
13-20-2, 5N13-13-20-8-1, 33D7-
50-1026-1
3.5.46.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.46.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.46.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.47 Flight Instruments Signal
Conditioner (FISC) TR: TOs 5F22-
26-2, 5F22-26-8-1, 33D7-50-782-
1
3.5.47.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.47.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.47.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.48 GSS Electronic Control
Amplifier TR: TOs 5N2-3-12-2,
5N2-3-12-8-1, 33D7-50-826-1
3.5.48.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.48.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.48.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.49 Gyro Stabilization
System (GSS) Electronic
                                                                42
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


Compensator Amplifier: TOs
5N2-3-12-2, 5N2-3-12-8-1,
33D7-50-826-1
3.5.49.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.49.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.49.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.50 Hinge Moment Limiter
Controller TR: TOs 5A9-8-9-2,
5A9-8-9-8-1, 33D7-50-784-1
3.5.50.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.50.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.50.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.51 Hydraulic Pressure
Signal Conditioner TR: TOs 33C2-
86-2, 33C2-86-8-1, 33D7-5-879-
1
3.5.51.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.51.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.51.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.52 Hydraulic Fluid
Temperature Signal Conditioner
TR: TOs 15A8-5-83-2, 15A8-5-
83-8-1, 33D7-50-1178-1
3.5.52.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.52.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.52.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.53 Hydraulic Reservoir Fluid
Quantity Signal Conditioner TR:
TOs 5F22-27-2, 5F22-27-8-1,
33D7-50-824-1
3.5.53.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.53.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.53.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.53.4 Calibrate TPS                                                                                                -           -        -              -
3.5.54 Individual Fuel Tank
Quantity Indicator TR: TOs 5L6-
3-92-2, 5L6-3-92-8-1, 33D7-50-
874-1
3.5.54.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.54.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
                                                                43
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3.5.54.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.55 Integrated Keyer Control
(IKB) TR: TOs 11B10-25-8-2,
11B10-25-8-8-1, 33D3-4-157-1
3.5.55.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.55.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.55.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.56 Main Aircraft System
Integration Panel (SIP) TR: TOs
8C21-35-2, 8C21-35-8-1, 33D7-
50-1292-1
3.5.56.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.56.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.56.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.57 Main Flight Station
Caution Panel TR: TOs 8D10-7-
16-2, 8D10-7-16-8-1, 33D7-50-
890-1
3.5.57.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.57.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.57.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.58 Memory Storage Unit
(MSU) TR: TOs 11B10-25-4-2,
11B10-25-4-8-1, 33D7-50-1112-
1
3.5.58.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.58.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.58.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.59 Multifunction Display
Indicator (MFD) TR: TOs 11B21-
5-4-2, 11B21-5-4-28-1, 33D7-77-
66-1
3.5.59.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.59.2 Operational check            *                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.5.59.3 Isolate/repair
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.60 Oil Pressure and
Quantity Indicator TR: TOs 5L6-
3-97-2, 5L6-3-97-8-1, 33D7-50-
817-1
                                                                44
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3.5.60.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.60.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.60.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.61 Radar Data Terminal/
Signal Data Converter
(RDT/SDC)TR: TOs 11B13-4-11-2,
11B13-4-11-8-1,33D7-17-75-1
3.5.61.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.61.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.61.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.62 Radar Set Control TR: TOs
11B12-29-4-2, 11B12-29-4-8-1,
33D3-4-157-1
3.5.62.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.62.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.62.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.63 Radio Frequency
Surveillance/ Electronic
Countermeasure (RFS/ECM)
Control Panel TR: TOs 12P3-4-
86-2, 12P3-4-86-8-1, 33D3-4-
157-1
3.5.63.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.63.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.63.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.64 Rotary Launcher
Electronic Control Amplifier TR:
TOs 8C3-16-14-2, 8C3-16-14-4
3.5.64.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.64.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.64.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.65 Sector Power Supply TR:
TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-152, 12P3-
2ALQ161-158-1,33D7-50-1314-1
3.5.65.1 Theory of Operation
3.5.65.1.1 TPS                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.5.65.1.2 LRU                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.5.65.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.65.3 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
                                                                45
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3.5.65.3.1 LRU                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.5.65.3.2 TPS                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.5.66 Side Window Defogger
TR: TOs 8D1-12-28-2, 8D1-12-
28-8-1, 33D7-50-1208-1
3.5.66.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.66.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.66.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.67 Spoiler Controller TR:
TOs 8C3-18-6-2, 8C3-18-6-8-1,
33D7-50-821-1
3.5.67.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.67.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.67.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.68 Signal Data Converter/
Crash Data Recorder
(SDC/CDR)TR: TOs 5F1-7-5-2,
5F1-7-5-8-1, 33D7-50-1167-1
3.5.68.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.68.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.68.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.69 Stability and Control
Augmentation System (SCAS)
Controller TR: TOs 5A9-8-10-2,
5A9-8-10-8-1, 33D7-50-804-1
3.5.69.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.69.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.69.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.70 Surface Positioning
Signal Conditioner TR: TOs 5F22-
29-2, 5F22-29-8-1, 33D7-50-803-
1
3.5.70.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.70.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.70.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.71 Terrain Following (TF)
TR: TOs 5A8-21-3-8-1, 33D7-50-
1177-1
3.5.71.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.71.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
                                                                46
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3.5.71.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.72 TF Radar (TFR) Control
TR: TOs 11B12-25-3-2, 11B12-
25-3-8-1, 33D3-4-157-1
3.5.72.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.72.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.72.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.73 Thermal Management
Controller TR: TOs 15A8-3-22-2,
15A8-3-22-8-1, 33D7-50-836-1
3.5.73.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.73.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.73.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.74 Tracking Handle TR: TOs
11B12-8-5-2, 11B12-8-5-8-1,
33D3-4-157-1
3.5.74.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.74.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.74.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.75 Thrust Control Unit
(TCU), Engine TR: TOs 2JA8-28-2,
2JA8-28-8-1, 33D7-50-785-1
3.5.75.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.75.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.75.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.76 Total Fuel Rate Indicator
TR: TOs 5L6-2-66-2, 5L6-2-66-8-
1, 33D7-50-814-1
3.5.76.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.76.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.76.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.77 Vertical Situation
Display/Digital Electronics Unit
(VSD/DEU) TR: TOs 5N29-17-2,
5N29-17-8-1, 33D7-50-781-1
3.5.77.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.77.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.77.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
                                                                47
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3.5.78 Vertical Situation
Display Indicator (VSDI) TR: TOs
5N29-16-2, 5N29-16-8-1, 33D7-
50-780-1
3.5.78.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.78.2 Operational check            *                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.5.78.3 Isolate/repair
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.5.79 Wheel Well Power
Supply TR: TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-
172, 12P3-2ALQ161-158-1,
33D7-50-1316-1
3.5.79.1 Theory of Operation
3.5.79.1.1 TPS                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.5.79.1.2 LRU                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.5.79.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.79.3 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.5.79.3.1 TPS                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.5.79.3.2 LRU                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.5.80 Windshield Ice/Air
Temperature Controller TR: TOs
8D1-12-27-2, 8D1-12-27-8-1,
33D7-50-1162-1
3.5.80.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.5.80.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.5.80.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6 B-1 ENHANCED POWER
AND CONTROL ASSEMBLY
TESTER (EPCAT)TR: TO 33D7-38-
330-1
3.6.1 Theory of Operations
3.6.1.1 Power control and
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
distribution subsystem
3.6.1.2 UUT power subsystem                                                                                           -           -        -              -
3.6.1.3 Digital subsystem                                                                                             -           -        -              -
3.6.1.4 Analog subsystem                                                                                              -           -        -              -
3.6.1.5 Bus test subsystem
3.6.1.6 Computer subsystem                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.6.1.7 Control software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
subsystem
3.6.1.8 Loads subsystem                                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.6.1.9 Interface subsystem                                                                                           -           -        -              -
3.6.2 Perform power-up/               *                                                                               -           -        -              -
                                                                48
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


power-down procedures
3.6.3 Perform emergency
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
shutdown procedures
3.6.4 Perform confidence test         *                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.6.5 Perform interactive test        *                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.6.6 Functional Test
3.6.6.1 Perform Wire
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
Verification Test (WVT)
3.6.6.2 Perform Functional
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
Verification Test (FVT)
3.6.7 Perform Transition
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
Interface Fixture (TIF) Test
3.6.8 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.6.8.1 Power control and
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
distribution subsystem
3.6.8.2 UUT power subsystem                                                                                           -           -        -              -
3.6.8.3 Digital subsystem                                                                                             -           -        -              -
3.6.8.4 Analog subsystem                                                                                              -           -        -              -
3.6.8.5 Computer subsystem                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.6.8.6 Control software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
subsystem
3.6.8.7 Loads subsystem                                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.6.8.8 Interface subsystem                                                                                           -           -        -              -
3.6.9 Perform Periodic
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
Inspection
3.6.9.1 30 DAY                        *                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.6.9.2 365 DAY                                *                                                                      -           -        -              -
3.6.10 Power Control
Assemblies (PCA) & Associated
ITAs Assigned to PCAT:
3.6.10.1 PCA 2453A05 TR: TOs
8C3-16-3-2, 8C3-16-3-8-1
3.6.10.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.6.10.1.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.10.1.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.10.2 PCA 2451A01 TR: TOs
8C3-16-4-2, 8C3-16-4-8-1
3.6.10.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.6.10.2.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.10.2.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
                                                                49
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3.6.10.3 PCA 2453A03 TR: TOs
8C3-16-5-2,8C3-16-5-8-1
3.6.10.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.6.10.3.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.10.3.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.10.4 PCA 2451A02 TR: TOs
8C3-16-6-2, 8C3-16-6-8-1
3.6.10.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.6.10.4.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.10.4.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.10.5 PCA 2451A04 TR: TOs
8C3-16-7-2, 8C3-16-7-8-1
3.6.10.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.6.10.5.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.10.5.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.10.6 PCA 2455A04 TR: TOs
8C3-16-8-2, 8C3-16-8-8-1
3.6.10.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.6.10.6.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.10.6.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.10.7 PCA 2454A01 TR: TOs
8C3-16-9-2, 8C3-16-9-8-1
3.6.10.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.6.10.7.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.10.7.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.10.8 PCA 2453A01 TR: TOs
8C3-16-10-2, 8C3-16-10-8-1
3.6.10.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.6.10.8.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.10.8.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.10.9 PCA 2455A01 TR: TOs
8C3-16-11-2, 8C3-16-11-8-1
3.6.10.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
                                                                50
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3.6.10.9.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.10.9.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.10.10 PCA 2451A01 TR: TOs
8C3-16-12-2, 8C3-16-12-8-1
3.6.10.10.1 Theory of
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
operation
3.6.10.10.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.10.10.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.10.11 PCA 2453A02 TR: TOs
8C3-16-13-2, 8C3-16-13-8-1
3.6.10.11.1 Theory of
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
operation
3.6.10.11.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.10.11.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.10.12 PCA 2431A01 TR: TOs
8C3-16-18-2, 8C3-16-18-8-1
3.6.10.12.1 Theory of
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
operation
3.6.10.12.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.10.12.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.10.13 PCA 2452A06 TR: TOs
8C3-18-7-2, 8C3-18-7-8-1
3.6.10.13.1 Theory of
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
operation
3.6.10.13.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.10.13.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.10.14 PCA 2453A06 TR: TOs
8C3-18-8-2, 8C3-18-8-8-1
3.6.10.14.1 Theory of
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
operation
3.6.10.14.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.10.14.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.10.15 PCA 2453A04 TR: TOs
                                                                51
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


8C3-18-9-2, 8C3-18-7-9-1
3.6.10.15.1 Theory of
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
operation
3.6.10.15.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.10.15.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.10.16 PCA 2455A06 TR: TOs
8C3-18-10-2, 8C3-18-10-8-1
3.6.10.16.1 Theory of
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
operation
3.6.10.16.2 Perform software
                                       *                                                                              -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.10.16.3 Isolate/repair
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.10.17 PCA 2455A05 TR: TOs
8C3-18-11-2, 8C3-18-11-8-1
3.6.10.17.1 Theory of
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
operation
3.6.10.17.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.10.17.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.10.18 PCA 2454A06 TR: TOs
8C3-18-12-2, 8C3-18-12-8-1
3.6.10.18.1 Theory of
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
operation
3.6.10.18.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.10.18.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.10.19 PCA 2454A05 TR: TOs
8C3-18-13-2, 8C3-18-13-8-1
3.6.10.19.1 Theory of
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
operation
3.6.10.19.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.10.19.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.10.20 PCA 2454A04 TR: TOs
8C3-18-14-2, 8C3-18-14-8-1
3.6.10.20.1 Theory of
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
operation
3.6.10.20.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
                                                                52
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3.6.10.20.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.10.21 PCA 2452A03 TR: TOs
8C3-18-15-2, 8C3-18-15-8-1
3.6.10.21.1 Theory of
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
operation
3.6.10.21.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.10.21.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.10.22 PCA 2452A04 TR: TOs
8C3-18-16-2, 8C3-18-16-8-1
3.6.10.22.1 Theory of
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
operation
3.6.10.22.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.10.22.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.10.23 PCA 2452A01 TR: TOs
8C3-18-17-2, 8C3-18-17-8-1
3.6.10.23.1 Theory of
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
operation
3.6.10.23.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.10.23.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.10.24 PCA 2454A03 TR: TOs
8C3-18-18-2, 8C3-18-18-8-1
3.6.10.24.1 Theory of
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
operation
3.6.10.24.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.10.24.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.10.25 PCA 2451A05 TR: TOs
8C3-18-19-2, 8C3-18-19-8-1
3.6.10.25.1 Theory of
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
operation
3.6.10.25.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.10.25.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.11 Serial Digital Multiplex
Assembly (SDMA) TR: TOs 5F27-
3-2, 5F27-3-8-1, 33D7-50-891-1
                                                                53
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3.6.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.6.11.2 Operational check            *                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.6.11.3 Isolate/repair
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.12 Bench Test Unit (BTU)
TR: TO 33D7-6-291-1
3.6.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.6.12.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.12.3 PCAs Assigned
3.6.12.3.1 Aft Weapons Bay
ALCM PCA
3.6.12.3.1.1 Theory of
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
operation
3.6.12.3.1.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.12.3.1.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.12.3.2 Dual Pylon Relay
Assembly
3.6.12.3.2.1 Theory of
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
operation
3.6.12.3.2.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.12.3.2.3 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.12.3.3 Common Rotary
Launcher PCA
3.6.12.3.3.1 Theory of
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
operation
3.6.12.3.3.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.12.3.3.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.12.3.4 Conventional Rotary
Launcher PCA
3.6.12.3.4.1 Theory of
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
operation
3.6.12.3.4.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.12.3.4.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.6.12.3.5 Forward Annex Bay
Air Launch Cruise Missile (ALCM)
3.6.12.3.5.1 Theory of                                                                                                -           -        -              -
                                                                54
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


operation
3.6.12.3.5.2 Perform software
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
tests
3.6.12.3.5.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7 B-1 PANELS TEST SET
3.7.1 Test Set TR: TO 33A1-3-
532-1
3.7.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
3.7.1.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2 LRUs Assigned:
3.7.2.1 Aerial Refueling Control
Panel TR: TO 8D24-14-2
3.7.2.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.7.2.1.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
test
3.7.2.1.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.2 AFCS Lighted
Pushbuttons Panel Assembly TR:
TO 5A13-5-22-2
3.7.2.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.7.2.2.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
test
3.7.2.2.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.3 Aircraft Navigation Tail
Light TR: TO 8A10-8-12-2
3.7.2.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.7.2.3.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
test
3.7.2.3.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.4 Alternate Throttle
Pilots/Co-Pilots Control Panel
TR: TO 8A13-14-20-2
3.7.2.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.7.2.4.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
test
3.7.2.4.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.5 Annunciator Aft Station
Panel TR: TO 8A4-18-14-2
3.7.2.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                         -           -        -              -
                                                                55
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3.7.2.5.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
test
3.7.2.5.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.6 Auxiliary Caution Panel
TR: TO 8D15-9-28-2
3.7.2.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.7.2.6.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
test
3.7.2.6.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.7 Avionic Power Supply
TR: TO 16W7-44-2
3.7.2.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.7.2.7.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
test
3.7.2.7.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.8 Battery Charger (4-067-
02) TR: TOs 33A1-3-532-1, 33A1-
3-532-4, 8D2-44-2, 8D2-44-4
3.7.2.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.7.2.8.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
test
3.7.2.8.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.9 Battery Charger
(199BC101-1) TR: TO 8D2-43-2
3.7.2.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.7.2.9.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
test
3.7.2.9.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.10 Center Gravity (CG)
Control Panel TR: TO 8D24-15-2
3.7.2.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.10.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.10.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.11 Communication and
Traffic Control Panel TR: TO
16W-40-2
3.7.2.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.11.2 Perform                                                                                                    -           -        -              -
                                                                56
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


maintenance test
3.7.2.11.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.12 Control Unit Compass
TR: TO 5N6-8-5-2
3.7.2.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.12.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.12.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.13 Box Assembly Aisle
Light Switch TR: TO 8A10-4-2-2
3.7.2.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.13.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.13.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.14 Driver Assembly,
Engine Caution and Warning TR:
TO 8C3-14-18-2
3.7.2.14.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.14.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.14.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.15 EMUX Control Panel
TR: TO 8D24-21-2
3.7.2.15.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.15.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.15.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.16 External Fuel Control
Panel TR: TO 8D24-20-2
3.7.2.16.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.16.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.16.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.17 Fire Extinguishing
Panel TR: TO 13F9-7-2
3.7.2.17.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.17.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.17.3 Isolate/repair                                                                                             -           -        -              -
                                                                57
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


malfunctions
3.7.2.18 Flight Control Power
Panel TR: TO 8D24-16-2
3.7.2.18.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.18.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.18.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.19 Flight Director Control
Panel TR: TO 8A4-18-13-2
3.7.2.19.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.19.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.19.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.20 Flight Control Trim
Pilots Control Panel TR: TO
8D24-15-2
3.7.2.20.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.20.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.20.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.21 Flight Instruments Test
and Mode Control Panel TR: TO
8D24-23-2
3.7.2.21.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.21.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.21.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.22 Fuel Management
Control Panel TR: TO 8D24-19-2
3.7.2.22.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.22.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.22.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.23 Hydraulic Indicator
Panel TR: TO 8D24-11-2
3.7.2.23.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.23.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.23.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
                                                                58
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3.7.2.24 Light Strobe Anti-
Collision FWD Wing TR: TO
8A10-8-11-2
3.7.2.24.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.24.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.24.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.25 Panel Annunciator
Offensive System Operator
(OSO) TR: TO 8D10-7-19-2
3.7.2.25.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.25.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.25.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.26 Panel Annunciator
Pilot TR: TO 8D24-30-2
3.7.2.26.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.26.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.26.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.27 Panel Assembly
Auxiliary Power Unit TR: TO 8E3-
3-3-2
3.7.2.27.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.27.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.27.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.28 Panel Assembly Flight
Station Oxygen TR: TO 16W7-43-
2
3.7.2.28.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.28.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.28.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.29 Panel Assembly Aft
Station Environmental TR: TO
8D24-22-2
3.7.2.29.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.29.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
                                                                59
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3.7.2.29.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.30 Panel Assembly
Essential C/B Defensive System
Operator (DSO) TR: TO 8D24-27-
2
3.7.2.30.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.30.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.30.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.31 Panel Assembly
Essential C/B OSO TR: TO 8D24-
29-2
3.7.2.31.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.31.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.31.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.32 Panel Assembly EXT
Fuel Tank Jettison TR: TO 8D24-
9-2
3.7.2.32.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.32.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.32.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.33 Panel Assembly
Forward Lighting TR: TO 8C10-8-
7-2
3.7.2.33.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.33.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.33.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.34 Panel Assembly Left
Hand (L/H) TR: TO 5E6-5-7-2
3.7.2.34.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.34.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.34.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.35 Panel Assembly
Overhead Driver L/H TR: TO
8C10-7-5-2
                                                                60
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3.7.2.35.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.35.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.35.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.36 Panel Assembly
Overhead Driver R/H TR: TO
8C10-7-5-12
3.7.2.36.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.36.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.36.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.37 Panel Assembly
Takeoff and Landing Gear TR: TO
8D24-28-2
3.7.2.37.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.37.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.37.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.38 Panel Engine Auxiliary
TR: TO 8D24-26-2
3.7.2.38.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.38.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.38.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.39 Panel Environmental
Flight Station TR: TO 8A25-35-2
3.7.2.39.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.39.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.39.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.40 Panel External Alert
Access TR: TO 8D15-9-29-2
3.7.2.40.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.40.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.40.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.41 Panel Fire Detector TR:
TO 8D24-13-2
3.7.2.41.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
                                                                61
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3.7.2.41.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.41.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.42 Panel Ground
Refuel/Defuel TR: TO 8D24-18-
12
3.7.2.42.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.42.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.42.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.43 Panel Landing Gear
Assembly TR: TO 8D24-17-2
3.7.2.43.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.43.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.43.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.44 Panel Light Control
DSO/OSO TR: TO 8D10-7-15-2
3.7.2.44.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.44.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.44.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.45 Panel Mode Ejection
TR: TO 8D24-10-2
3.7.2.45.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.45.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.45.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.7.2.46 Panel Power
Distribution (Engine Start) TR:
TO 8D24-24-2
3.7.2.46.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.7.2.46.2 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance test
3.7.2.46.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.8 MANUAL LRU
MAINTENANCE
3.8.1 Power Supply Dimmer TR:
TO 8C15-8-26-2
                                                                62
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3.8.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
3.8.1.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
test
3.8.1.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.8.2 Power Supply Tail Strobe
Light TR: TO 8D3-54-2
3.8.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
3.8.2.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
test
3.8.2.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.8.3 Power Supply Wing
Strobe Light TR: TO 8D11-3-53-2
3.8.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
3.8.3.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
test
3.8.3.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.8.4 Control Stick Grip TR: TO
16C1-27-23-2
3.8.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
3.8.4.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
test
3.8.4.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.8.5 Wing Sweep Command
Position Sensor Assembly TR: TO
5F25-21-2
3.8.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
3.8.5.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
test
3.8.5.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.8.5.4 Perform assembly/
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassembly
3.8.6 Single Position Sensor
Assembly TR: TO 5F25-18-2
3.8.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
3.8.6.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
test
3.8.6.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.8.6.4 Perform assembly/
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassembly
                                                                63
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3.8.7 Vertical Stabilizer
Assembly TR: TO 5F25-14-2
3.8.7.1 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
test
3.8.7.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.8.7.3 Perform assembly/
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassembly
3.8.8 Annunciator Light
Dimmer Type II TR: TO 8C15-8-
24-2
3.8.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
3.8.8.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
test
3.8.8.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.8.9 Radar Transponder
Beacon Control TR: TO 12P4-
2APX105-2
3.8.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
3.8.9.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
test
3.8.9.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.8.10 Intercommunication
Station (ICS-150) TR: TO 12R2-
2AIC33-2
3.8.10.1 Operate ICS test set                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.8.10.2 Troubleshoot and
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
repair ICS test set
3.8.10.3 ICS-150 Central
Control Unit (CCU)
3.8.10.3.1 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance testing
3.8.10.3.2 Troubleshoot and
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
repair
3.8.10.4 ICS-150 Crew Station
Unit (CSU)
3.8.10.4.1 Perform
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
maintenance testing
3.8.10.4.2 Troubleshoot and
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
repair
3.8.10.5 ICS-150 Maintenance
Station Unit (MSU)
3.8.10.5.1 Perform                                                                                                    -           -        -              -
                                                                64
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


maintenance testing
3.8.10.5.2 Troubleshoot and
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
repair
3.9 RADAR AND ELECTRONIC
WARFARE SECTION (REW)
3.9.1 B-1 Advanced REW Test
Station (ARTS)
3.9.1.1 Power up/power down                                                                                        2b/-           -        -              -
3.9.1.2 Emergency power off                                                                                        2b/-           -        -              -
3.9.1.3 Self test                                                                                                  2b/-           -        -              -
3.10 B-1 RADAR ELECTRONIC
WARFARE (R/EW) TEST STATION
TR: TOs 33A1-7-261-1, 33A1-8-
941-1, 33D7-10-129-11-3, 33D7-
44-251-1, 33D7-44-251-8-1,
33D7-33-196-1,33DA52-21-11
3.10.1 Theory of Operation of
RF Module
3.10.1.1 LRU DC power
                                                                                                                      -           B        -              -
generation and switching
3.10.1.2 RF stimulus                                                                                                  -           B        -              -
3.10.1.3 RF measurement                                                                                               -           B        -              -
3.10.1.4 Phase noise analyzer                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.10.2 Wire run list and wiring
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
diagrams
3.10.3 Peculiar ATLAS                                                                                                 -           B        -              -
3.10.4 Operate Test Station
and Associated Equipment to:
3.10.4.1 Perform turn-on
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
procedure
3.10.4.2 Perform standby
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
procedure
3.10.4.3 Perform shutdown
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
procedure
3.10.4.4 Perform CONF                 *                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.10.4.5 Perform DIAG                 *                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.10.4.6 Perform ALIN                 *                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.10.5 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.10.5.1 LRU DC power
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
generation and switching
3.10.5.2 RF stimulus                                                                                                  -           -        -              -
3.10.5.3 RF measurement                                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.10.5.4 Phase noise analyzer                                                                                         -           -        -              -
                                                                65
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3.10.6 Perform Periodic
Inspections
3.10.6.1 30 DAY                       *                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.10.6.2 180 DAY                               *                                                                      -           -        -              -
3.11 B-1 RADIO FREQUENCY
(RF) DEFENSIVE AUTOMATIC
TEST EQUIPMENT (ATE)
AUGMENTATION EQUIPMENT
(DAAE) TR: TOs 33D7-13-99-1,
33D7-13-99-8-1, 33D7-50-1029-
1
3.11.1 Theory of Operation
3.11.1.1 Power distribution                                                                                           -           A        -              -
3.11.1.2 TMA FTG                                                                                                      -           A        -              -
3.11.1.3 Waveform generator
                                                                                                                      -           A        -              -
FTG
3.11.1.4 Band 1-3 receiver FTG                                                                                        -           A        -              -
3.11.1.5 Radio Frequency (RF)
                                                                                                                      -           A        -              -
Source FTG
3.11.1.6 Frequency encoder
                                                                                                                      -           A        -              -
FTG
3.11.1.7 Tail warning receiver
                                                                                                                      -           A        -              -
FTG
3.11.1.8 Test Adapter Group
                                                                                                                      -           A        -              -
(TAG)
3.11.1.9 Cooling system                                                                                               -           A        -              -
3.11.2 Wire run list and wiring
                                                                                                                      -           A        -              -
diagrams
3.11.3 Peculiar ATLAS                                                                                                 -           A        -              -
3.11.4 Operate Test Station
and Associated Equipment to:
3.11.4.1 Perform power-
                                       *                                                                              -           -        -              -
up/power-down
3.11.4.2 Perform CONF                  *                                                                              -           -        -              -
3.11.4.3 Perform DIAG                  *                                                                              -           -        -              -
3.11.4.4 Perform alignment                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.11.4.5 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.12 B-1 DIGITAL DEFENSIVE
AUTOMATIC TEST EQUIPMENT
(ATE) AUGMENTATION
EQUIPMENT (DAAE) TR: TOs:
33D7-13-100-1, 33D7-13-100-8-
1, 33D7-50-1028-1
3.12.1 Theory of Operation
                                                                66
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3.12.1.1 Power distribution                                                                                           -           A        -              -
3.12.1.2 Test Module Adapter
(TMA) Functional Test Group                                                                                           -           A        -              -
(FTG)
3.12.1.3 Avionic Control Unit
                                                                                                                      -           A        -              -
(ACU) FTG
3.12.1.4 Control Interface Unit
                                                                                                                      -           A        -              -
(CIU) FTG
3.12.1.5 Advance Tracker Unit
                                                                                                                      -           A        -              -
(ATU) FTG
3.12.1.6 Emitter Simulator
                                                                                                                      -           A        -              -
Processor (ESP) FTG
3.12.1.7 Jammer Logic A,
Jammer Logic B, Receiver                                                                                              -           A        -              -
Threshold Control (ABC) FTG
3.12.1.8 Direction Finding
                                                                                                                      -           A        -              -
Encoder (DFE) FTG
3.12.1.9 Test Adapter Group
                                                                                                                      -           A        -              -
(TAG)
3.12.1.10 Cooling system                                                                                              -           A        -              -
3.12.2 Wire run list and wiring
                                                                                                                      -           A        -              -
diagrams
3.12.3 Peculiar ATLAS                                                                                                 -           A        -              -
3.12.4 Operate Test Station
and Associated Equipment to:
3.12.4.1 Perform power-up/
                                       *                                                                              -           -        -              -
power-down procedures
3.12.4.2 Perform CONF                  *                                                                              -           -        -              -
3.12.4.3 Perform DIAG                  *                                                                              -           -        -              -
3.12.4.4 Perform alignment                                                                                            -           -        -              -
3.12.4.5 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
3.13 B-1 R/EW LRU/TPS
MAINTENANCE
3.13.1 Advance Tracking Unit
(ATU) TR: TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-
272, 12P3-2ALQ161-278-1,
33D7-50-1238-1
3.13.1.1 Theory of Operation
3.13.1.1.1 TPS                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.1.1.2 LRU                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.1.1.3 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.13.1.2 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.13.1.2.1 TPS                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
                                                                67
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3.13.1.2.2 LRU                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.2 Control Interface Unit
(CIU) TR: TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-
252, 12P3-ALQ161-258-1,33D7-
50-1236-1
3.13.2.1 Theory of Operation
3.13.2.1.1 TPS                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.2.1.2 LRU                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.2.1.3 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.13.2.2 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.13.2.2.1 TPS                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.2.2.2 LRU                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.3 Direction Finding (DF)
Encoder TR: TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-
362, 12P3-2ALQ161-368-1,
33D7-50-1239-1
3.13.3.1 Theory of Operation
3.13.3.1.1 TPS                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.3.1.2 LRU                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.3.1.3 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.13.3.2 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.13.3.2.1 TPS                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.3.2.2 LRU                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.4 Driver, Band 6 TR: TOs
12P3-2ALQ161-72, 12P3-
2ALQ161-78-1, 33D7-50-1300-1
3.13.4.1 Theory of Operation
3.13.4.1.1 TPS                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.4.1.2 LRU                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.4.1.3 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.13.4.2 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.13.4.2.1 TPS                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.4.2.2 LRU                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.4.2.3 TPS Normalization                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.13.5 Driver, Band 7 TR: TOs
12P3-2ALQ161-82, 12P3-
2ALQ161-88-1, 33D7-50-1242-1
3.13.5.1 Theory of Operation
3.13.5.1.1 TPS                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.5.1.2 LRU                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.5.1.3 Operational check          *                                                                               -           -        -              -

                                                                68
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3.13.5.2 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.13.5.2.1 TPS                        *                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.13.5.2.2 LRU                        *                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.13.5.2.3 TPS Normalization          *                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.13.6 Encoder TR: TOs 12P3-
2ALQ161-122, 12P3-2ALQ161-
128-1, 33D7-50-1228-1
3.13.6.1 Theory of Operation
3.13.6.1.1 TPS                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.6.1.2 LRU                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.6.1.3 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.13.6.2 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.13.6.2.1 TPS                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.6.2.2 LRU                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.6.2.3 TPS Normalization                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.13.7 Frequency Channelizer
(FCh) TR: TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-
132, 12P3-2ALQ161-138-1,
33D7-50-1311-1
3.13.7.1 Theory of Operation
3.13.7.1.1 TPS                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.7.1.2 LRU                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.7.1.3 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.13.7.2 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.13.7.2.1 TPS                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.7.2.2 LRU                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.7.2.3 TPS Normalization                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.13.8 Interferometer Antenna
TR: TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-352,
12P3-2ALQ161-358-1, 33D7-50-
1305-1
3.13.8.1 Theory of Operation
3.13.8.1.1 TPS                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.8.1.2 LRU                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.8.1.3 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.13.8.2 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.13.8.2.1 TPS                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.8.2.2 LRU                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.9 Interferometer Receiver
(IR) TR: TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-112,

                                                                69
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


12P3-2ALQ161-118-1, 33D7-50-
1269-1
3.13.9.1 Theory of Operation
3.13.9.1.1 TPS                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.9.1.2 LRU                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.9.1.3 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.13.9.2 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.13.9.2.1 TPS                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.9.2.2 LRU                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.9.2.3 TPS Normalization                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.13.10 Jammer Logic A (JLA)TR:
TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-232, 12P3-
2ALQ161-238-1, 33D7-50-1234-
1
3.13.10.1 Theory of Operation
3.13.10.1.1 TPS                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.10.1.2 LRU                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.10.1.3 Operational check                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.13.10.2 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.13.10.2.1 TPS                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.10.2.2 LRU                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.11 Jammer Logic B (JLB)
TR: TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-242,
12P3-2ALQ161-248-1, 33D7-50-
1235-1
3.13.11.1 Theory of Operation
3.13.11.1.1 TPS                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.11.1.2 LRU                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.11.1.3 Operational check                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.13.11.2 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.13.11.2.1 TPS                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.11.2.2 LRU                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.12 Receiver Threshold
Control (RTC) TR: TOs 12P3-
2ALQ161-262, 12P3-2ALQ161-
268-1, 33D7-50-1237-1
3.13.12.1 Theory of Operation
3.13.12.1.1 TPS                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.12.1.2 LRU                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.12.1.3 Operational check                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.13.12.2 Isolate/Repair

                                                                70
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


Malfunctions
3.13.12.2.1 TPS                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.12.2.2 LRU                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.13 Receiver, Bands 4-8 TR:
TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-102, 12P3-
2ALQ161-108-1, 33D7-50-1310-
1
3.13.13.1 Theory of Operation
3.13.13.1.1 TPS                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.13.1.2 LRU                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.13.1.3 Operational check                  *                                                                      -           -        -              -
3.13.13.2 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.13.13.2.1 TPS                                *                                                                      -           -        -              -
3.13.13.2.2 LRU                                *                                                                      -           -        -              -
3.13.13.2.3 TPS Normalization                  *                                                                      -           -        -              -
3.13.14 RF Source, Band 4/5
TR: TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-182,
12P3-2ALQ161-188-1, 33D7-50-
1229-1
3.13.14.1 Theory of Operation
3.13.14.1.1 TPS                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.14.1.2 LRU                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.14.1.3 Operational check                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.13.14.2 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.13.14.2.1 TPS                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.14.2.2 LRU                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.14.2.3. TPS Normalization                                                                                        -           -        -              -
3.13.15 RF Source, Band 6 TR:
TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-192, 12P3-
2ALQ161-198-1, 33D7-50-1230-
1
3.13.15.1 Theory of Operation
3.13.15.1.1 TPS                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.15.1.2 LRU                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.15.1.3 Operational check                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.13.15.2 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.13.15.2.1 TPS                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.15.2.2 LRU                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.15.2.3 TPS Normalization                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.13.16 RF Source Repeater,
Band 7 TR: TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-

                                                                71
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


202, 12P3-2ALQ161-208-1,
33D7-50-1231-1
3.13.16.1 Theory of Operation
3.13.16.1.1 TPS                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.16.1.2 LRU                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.16.1.3 Operational check         *                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.13.16.2 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.13.16.2.1 TPS                       *                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.13.16.2.2 LRU                       *                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.13.16.2.3 TPS Normalization         *                                                                               -           -        -              -
3.13.17 RF Source Repeater,
Band 8 TR: TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-
212, 12P3-2ALQ161-218-1,
33D7-50-1232-1
3.13.17.1 Theory of Operation
3.13.17.1.1 TPS                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.17.1.2 LRU                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.17.1.3 Operational check                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.13.17.2 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.13.17.2.1 TPS                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.17.2.2 LRU                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.17.2.3 TPS Normalization                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.13.18 Transmitter, Band 5
(FWD & AFT) TR: TOs 12P3-
2ALQ161-22, 12P3-2ALQ161-28-
1, 12P3-2ALQ161-32, 12P3-
2ALQ161-38-1, 33D7-50-1313-1
3.13.18.1 Theory of Operation
3.13.18.1.1 TPS                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.18.1.2 LRU                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.18.1.3 Operational check                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.13.18.2 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.13.18.2.1 TPS                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.18.2.2 LRU                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.19 Transmitter, Band 6 TR:
TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-42, 12P3-
2ALQ161-48-1, 33D7-50-1240-1
3.13.19.1 Theory of Operation
3.13.19.1.1 TPS                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.19.1.2 LRU                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.19.1.3 Operational check                                                                                         -           -        -              -

                                                                72
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3.13.19.2 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.13.19.2.1 TPS                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.19.2.2 LRU                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.20 Transmitter, Band 7 TR:
TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-52,12P3-
2ALQ161-58-1, 33D7-50-1241-1
TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-52, 12P3-
2ALQ161-58-1, 33D7-50-1241-1
3.13.20.1 Theory of Operation
3.13.20.1.1 TPS                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.20.1.2 LRU                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.20.1.3 Operational check          *                                                                              -           -        -              -
3.13.20.2 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.13.20.2.1 TPS                        *                                                                              -           -        -              -
3.13.20.2.2 LRU                        *                                                                              -           -        -              -
3.13.21 Transmitter/Driver,
Band 8 TR: TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-
62, 12P3-2ALQ161-68-1, 33D7-
50-1243-1
3.13.21.1 Theory of Operation
3.13.21.1.1 TPS                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.21.1.2 LRU                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.21.1.3 Operational check                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.13.21.2 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.13.21.2.1 TPS                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.21.2.2 LRU                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.22 Tail Warning Function
(TWF) Receiver/Processor TR:
TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-142, 12P3-
2ALQ161-148-1, 33D7-50-1820-
1
3.13.22.1 Theory of Operation
3.13.22.1.1 TPS                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.22.1.2 LRU                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.22.1.3 Operational check                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.13.22.2 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.13.22.2.1 TPS                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.22.2.2 LRU                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.23 Waveform Generator
TR: TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-222,

                                                                73
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


12P3-2ALQ161-228-1, 33D7-50-
1233-1
3.13.23.1 Theory of Operation
3.13.23.1.1 TPS                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.23.1.2 LRU                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.23.1.3 Operational check                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.13.23.2 Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
3.13.23.2.1 TPS                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.13.23.2.2 LRU                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.14 UPGRADED SYSTEMS TEST
BENCH (USTB) TR: TO 33D7-44-
365-1
3.14.1 Theory of Operation
3.14.1.1 System Console
Assembly
3.14.1.1.1 Control system                                                                                             -           A        -              -
3.14.1.1.2 Power distribution
                                                                                                                      -           A        -              -
system
3.14.1.1.3 Cooling system                                                                                             -           A        -              -
3.14.2 LRU System Test Bench
3.14.2.1 Power distribution
                                                                                                                      -           A        -              -
system
3.14.2.2 Cooling system                                                                                               -           A        -              -
3.14.2.3 Waveguide
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
pressurization
3.14.3 Wire run list and wiring
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
diagrams
3.14.4 Perform confidence                                                                                             -           -        -              -
3.14.5 Perform self-test               *                                                                              -           -        -              -
3.14.6 Preventive maintenance          *                                                                              -           -        -              -
3.14.7 Perform calibration                      *                                                                     -           -        -              -
3.14.8 Repair                                   *                                                                     -           -        -              -
3.14.9 USTB LRU Maintenance
3.14.9.1 Radar Target Indicator
(RTI) TR: TO 12P1-4-29-2
3.14.9.1.1 Perform operational
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
testing
3.14.9.1.2 Troubleshoot and
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
repair
3.14.9.2 Radar Set Antenna
(RSA) TR: TO 12P1-4-30-2
3.14.9.2.1 Perform operational
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
testing

                                                                74
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3.14.9.2.2 Troubleshoot and
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
repair
3.14.9.3 Radar Signal Processor
(RSP) /Common Receiver
Processor(CoRP) R: TO 12P1-4-
31-2
3.14.9.3.1 Perform operational
                                       *                                                                              -           -        -              -
testing
3.14.9.3.2 Troubleshoot and
                                       *                                                                              -           -        -              -
repair
3.14.9.3.3Load/verify OFP             *
3.14.9.4 Radar Receiver
Transmitter (RRT) TR: TO 12P1-
4-32-2
3.14.9.4.1 Perform operational
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
testing
3.14.9.4.2 Troubleshoot and
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
repair
3.14.9.5 Radar Transmitter (RT)
TR: TO 12P1-4-33-2
3.14.9.5.1 Perform operational
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
testing
3.14.9.5.2 Troubleshoot and
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
repair
3.14.9.6 Radar Video Signal
Processor (RVSP) TR: TO 12P1-4-
34-2
3.14.9.6.1 Perform operational
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
testing
3.14.9.6.2 Troubleshoot and
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
repair
3.15 B-1 IATE SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT TR: TOs 35D29-5-6-
1, 33DA21-494-1, 33DA43-35-1,
33DA102-18-1, 33D5-8-129-1,
35D3-11-104, 42B5-1-2, 35D3-
42-2-1, 36-1-58
3.15.1 Oil Cooling Cart
3.15.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           B        -              -
3.15.1.2 Operate                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
3.15.1.3 Repair                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.15.1.4 Inspections                                                                                                  -           -        -              -
3.15.2 LRU Handling Fixture
3.15.2.1 Operate                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
3.15.2.2 Inspections                                                                                                  -           -        -              -
                                                                75
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B         A             B          C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl      Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


3.15.3 Calorimeter
3.15.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.15.3.2 Operate                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
3.15.3.3 Repair                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.15.3.4 Inspections                                                                                                  -           -        -              -
3.15.4 Pressure Tester
3.15.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.15.4.2 Operate                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
3.15.4.3 Repair                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.15.4.4 Inspections                                                                                                  -           -        -              -
3.15.5 Radiation Monitor
3.15.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.15.5.2 Operate                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
3.15.5.3 Inspections                                                                                                  -           -        -              -
3.15.6 Nitrogen Cart
3.15.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.15.6.2 Operate                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
3.15.6.3 Repair                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.15.6.4 Inspections                                                                                                  -           -        -              -
3.15.7 Lifting Dolly
3.15.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.15.7.2 Operate                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
3.15.7.3 Repair                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
3.15.7.4 Inspections                                                                                                  -           -        -              -
3.15.8 Micro Circuit
Programmer
3.15.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.15.8.2 Operate                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
3.15.9 Environmental Chamber
3.15.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
3.15.9.2 Operate                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
3.15.10 RF Roll Up Amp
3.15.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                         -           -        -              -
3.15.10.2 Operate                                                                                                     -           -        -              -




                                                                76
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                    F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A              B           C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


4 ATTACHMENT 4, F-15
TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
(For upgrade to 5-level
personnel must complete all
core tasks in DEFT area plus all
core tasks in two of the three
following areas - ESTS or TISS or
RADAR)
4.1 MOBILE ELECTRONIC TEST
SET (METS) TR: TOs AT-822VB-
MEB series, 33D7-17-80-1,
33D7-38-254-1TR: TOs AT-
822VB-MEB series, 33D7-17-80-
1, 33D7-38-254-1
4.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -           -        -              -
4.1.2 Signal Flow Within and
Between Peculiar TRUs
4.1.2.1 Computer Control
Memory Unit (CCMU) TO 33D7-                                                                                           -           -        -              -
68-37-2
4.1.2.2 Signal Generator
Converter (SGC) TO 33AA41-                                                                                            -           -        -              -
10-2
4.1.2.3 Converter Interface (CI)
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
TO 33D7-17-80-1
4.1.3 Perform self-test                                                                                               -           -        -              -
4.1.4 Level rate-of-turn table                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.1.5 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
4.1.6 Perform required
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
inspections
4.2 LRUs ASSIGNED TO THE
METS
4.2.1 AAI R/T TR: TO 12P4-
2APX76-8-1
4.2.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.2.1.2 Operational check                                                                                             -           -        -              -
4.2.1.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.2.2 Air Data Computer (ADC)
TR: TO 12P4-2APX76-8-1
4.2.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.2.2.2 Operational check                                                                                             -           -        -              -


                                                               77
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                    F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A              B           C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


4.2.3 Automatic Direction
Finder Electronic Control
Amplifier (ADF ECA) TR: TO
12R5-2ARD-108-1
4.2.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.2.3.2 Operational check                                                                                             -           -        -              -
4.2.3.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.2.4 Avionic Interface Unit
(AIU) #1 TR: TO 11F1-ASQ195-
18-1
4.2.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.2.4.2 Operational check                                                                                             -           -        -              -
4.2.4.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.2.5 Avionic Interface Unit
(AIU) #2 TR: TO 11F1-ASQ195-
28-1
4.2.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.2.5.2 Operational check                                                                                             -           -        -              -
4.2.5.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.2.6 Electronic Air Inlet
Controller (EAIC) TR: TO 5F28-2-
8-19
4.2.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.2.6.2 Operational check                                                                                             -           -        -              -
4.2.6.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.2.7 Electronic Linear
Accelerometer (ELA) TR: TO 5F2-
32-8-2
4.2.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.2.7.2 Operational check                                                                                             -           -        -              -
4.2.7.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.2.8 Engine Monitor Display
TR: TO 5E1-2-14-8-1
4.2.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.2.8.2 Operational check                                                                                             -           -        -              -
4.2.8.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.2.9 Flight Control Computer
(FCC) TR: TO 5A7-3-43-8-1
4.2.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.2.9.2 Operational check                                                                                             -           -        -              -
4.2.9.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                           -           -        -              -



                                                               78
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                    F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A              B           C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


4.2.10 Identification Friend or
Foe (IFF) Transponder TR: TO
12P4-2APX101-8-18
4.2.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.2.10.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
4.2.10.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.2.11 Instrument Landing
System (ILS) Receiver TR: TO
12R5-2ARN-427-3
4.2.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.2.11.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
4.2.11.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.2.12 Instrument Landing
System (ILS) Test Set TR: TO
33A1-3-473-8-1
4.2.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.2.12.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
4.2.12.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.2.13 Intercommunications
Set (ICSCP) TR: TO 12R2-4-280-
8-1
4.2.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.2.13.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
4.2.13.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.2.14 Upfront Control Panel
(UFCP) TR: TO 12R5-4-222-8-1
4.2.14.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.2.14.2 Operational check                                                                                            -           -        -              -
4.2.14.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.3 ANTENNA TEST STATION
TR: TOs 33-1-161, 33D7-35-39-1,
33D7-35-39-2
4.3.1 Antenna "A & B" Test
Stations
4.3.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.3.1.2 Signal Flow Within and
Between Peculiar TRUs
4.3.1.2.1 Antenna "A" Test
Station
4.3.1.2.1.1 Antenna power
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
supply
4.3.1.2.1.2 Low Voltage Power
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
Supply (LVPS) primary power
                                                               79
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                    F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A              B           C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


control panel
4.3.1.2.1.3 Variable
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
transformer panel
4.3.1.2.1.4 Power supply
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
assembly
4.3.1.2.1.5 LVPS control and
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
display panel
4.3.1.2.1.6 Impedance units 1
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
and 2
4.3.1.2.1.7 Antenna control
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
and display panel
4.3.1.2.1.8 Hydraulic power
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
supply
4.3.1.2.1.9 Hydraulic control
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
panel
4.3.1.2.1.10 Servo command
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
signal generator
4.3.1.2.1.11 X and L Band signal
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
generator TO 33A1-8-718-1
4.3.1.2.1.12 RMS volt meter
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
TO 33A1-12-643-1
4.3.1.2.1.13 LRU blower panel                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.3.1.2.1.14 Transfer function
analyzer TOs 33D7-10-79-1,                                                                                            -           -        -              -
33D7-10-153-1
4.3.1.2.1.15 Nitrogen supply                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.3.1.2.1.16 Hydraulic flow
through and between applicable                                                                                        -           -        -              -
TRUs
4.3.1.2.2 Antenna "B" Test
Station
4.3.1.2.2.1 Transmitter power
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
supply
4.3.1.2.2.2 Transmitter primary
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
power control panel
4.3.1.2.2.3 Transmitter control
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
and display panel
4.3.1.2.2.4 Transmitter
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
mounting fixture
4.3.1.2.2.5 Commercial Coolant
Processing Unit (CCPU) / Coolant                                                                                      -           -        -              -
Conditioning Unit (CCU)


                                                               80
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                    F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A              B           C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


4.3.1.2.2.6 Noise analyzer TO
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
33D7-10-76-1
4.3.1.2.2.7 High frequency
spectrum analyzer TO 33D7-10-                                                                                         -           -        -              -
85-1
4.3.1.2.2.8 Transmitter pulse
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
generator TO 33A1-8-719-1
4.3.1.2.2.9 Microwave signal
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
generator TO 33A1-8-720-1
4.3.1.2.2.10 Coolant flow
through and between applicable                                                                                        -           -        -              -
TRUs
4.3.1.3 Perform RF Loss
Correction Chart Procedures
4.3.1.3.1 Channel A                            *                                                                      -           -        -              -
4.3.1.3.2 Channel B                            *                                                                      -           -        -              -
4.3.1.4 Perform confidence test       *                                                                               -           -        -              -
4.3.1.5 Perform OA/FI test            *                                                                               -           -        -              -
4.3.1.6 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
4.3.1.7 Perform required
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
inspections
4.3.1.8 Perform
Calibration/Alignment
4.3.1.8.1. Differential pressure
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
gauge TO 33K-4-1698-15
4.3.1.8.2 Waveguide interlock
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
Test Set TO 33K6-4-1699-15
4.3.1.8.3 RF interconnect unit
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
TO 33K6-4-289-15
4.3.1.8.4 RF power meter TO
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
33K-4-289-15
4.3.1.8.5 Power sensor TO
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
33K-4-289-15
4.3.2 Commercial Coolant
Processing Unit (CCPU) / Coolant
Conditioning Unit (CCU)
4.3.2.1 Service refrigeration                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.3.2.2 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.3.2.3 Operate                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
4.3.3 Hydraulic Power Supply
(HPS) / Commercial Hydraulic
Power Supply (CHPS)
                                                               81
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                    F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A              B           C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


4.3.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.3.3.2 Service hydraulic power
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
supply
4.3.3.3 Operate                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
4.3.4 Transmitter Mounting
Fixture (TMF)
4.3.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.3.4.2 Troubleshoot /repair                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.3.4.3 Operate                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
4.4 ENHANCED AIRCRAFT
RADAR TEST STATION (EARTS)
TR: TOs 33D7-44-353-1, 33D7-
44-353-2, 33-1-161-1 (For
upgrade to 5-level personnel
must complete all core tasks in
DEFT area plus all core tasks in
two of the three following areas
- ESTS or TISS or RADAR)
4.4.1 Theory of Operation
Channel A/ Channel B TR: TO
33D7-44-353-2
4.4.1.1 Principles of Operation
4.4.1.1.1 Antenna Mounting
Fixture TO 33D7-44-353-2 TR:                                                                                          A           -        -              -
TO 33D7-44-353-2
4.4.1.1.2 Signal flow within and
                                                                                                                      A           -        -              -
between peculiar TRUs
4.4.1.1.3 Coolant flow within
                                                                                                                      A           -        -              -
and between peculiar TRUs
4.4.1.1.4 Hydraulic flow within
                                                                                                                      A           -        -              -
and between peculiar TRUs
4.4.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
4.4.3 Perform required
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
inspections
4.4.4 Perform TMF path loss
compensation TO 33K4-4-604-                    *                                                                      -           -        -              -
15
4.4.5 Perform
Calibration/Alignment
4.4.5.1 Differential pressure
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
gauge TO 33K-4-1698-15


                                                               82
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                    F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A              B           C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


4.4.5.2 Waveguide interlock
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
test set TO 33K6-4-1699-15
4.4.5.3 Pulse generator TO
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
33K3-4-3099-15
4.4.5.4 116 MHZ Clock TO
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
33K3-4-3098-15
4.4.6 Commercial Coolant
Processing Unit (CCPU) / Coolant
Processing Unit (CPU)
4.4.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.4.6.2 Service coolant                                                                                               -           -        -              -
4.4.6.3 Service refrigeration                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.4.6.4 Troubleshoot/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
EARTS coolant processing units
4.4.7 Hydraulic Power Supply
(HPS) / Commercial Hydraulic
Power Supply (CHPS)
4.4.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.4.7.2 Service HPS                                                                                                   -           -        -              -
4.4.7.3 Operate                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
4.4.8 Transmitter Mounting
Fixture (TMF)
4.4.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.4.8.2 Troubleshoot /repair                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.4.8.3 Operate                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
4.4.9 EARTS Software
4.4.9.1 Operation                                                                                                     -           -        -              -
4.4.9.2 Station software boot                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.4.9.3 Test Program
Selector/Loader (TPSL) Menu                                                                                           -           -        -              -
TO 33D7-44-353-18-1
4.4.9.4 Test program execution
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
modes TO 33D7-44-353-18-1
4.4.9.5 Diskette system build
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
procedure TO 33-1-161-1
4.4.10 Test program language
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
TO 33D7-44-353-11
4.4.11 Use ARTS Maintenance
Support System (AMSS laptop)                                                                                          -           -        -              -
TO 33D7-44-353-18-1



                                                               83
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                    F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A              B           C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


4.4.12 Perform Channel A
network analyzer calibration                   *                                                                      -           -        -              -
procedure TO 33D7-44-353-8-2
4.4.13 Perform confidence
Tests on Channel A TO 33D7-           *                                                                               -           -        -              -
44-353-8-4
4.4.14 Perform confidence
Tests on Channel B TO 33D7-           *                                                                               -           -        -              -
44-353-8-3
4.4.15 Perform OA/FI tests on
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
Channel A
4.4.16 Perform OA/FI tests on
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
Channel B
4.5 ANTENNA/EARTS LRU/SRUs
TR: TOs 12P2-2APG63 series,
12P2-2APG70 series Leave here
and add under Antenna LRUs
4.5.1 Low Voltage Power
Supply
4.5.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.5.1.2 Operational check                                                                                             -           -        -              -
4.5.1.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.5.1.4 Assemble/disassemble                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.5.2 Radar Antenna (031)
4.5.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.5.2.2 Operational check             *                                                                               -           -        -              -
4.5.2.3 Troubleshoot/repair           *                                                                               -           -        -              -
4.5.2.4 Assemble/disassemble          *                                                                               -           -        -              -
4.5.3 Radar Transmitter
4.5.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.5.3.2 Operational check             *                                                                               -           -        -              -
4.5.3.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.5.3.4 Assemble/disassemble          *                                                                               -           -        -              -
4.6 TACTICAL ELECTRONIC
WARFARE SYSTEM (TEWS)
INTERMEDIATE SUPPORT
SYSTEM (TISS) TR: TOs 33D7-33-
217-1, 33D7-33-219-1, 33D7-33-
224-1, 33D7-33-225-1, 33D7-33-
226-1, 33D7-33-228-1, 33D7-33-
229-1, 33D7-38-2 (For upgrade
to 5-level personnel must
complete all core tasks in DEFT
                                                               84
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                     F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                     2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                       A        B       A              B           C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                        3           5                7
                                                                                                                      Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                     Level        Level            Level
                                     5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


area plus all core tasks in two of
the three following areas - ESTS
or TISS or RADAR)




4.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              A           -        -              -
4.6.2 Signal Flow Within and
Between Peculiar TRUs
4.6.2.1 Power distribution
                                                                                                                       A           -        -              -
subsystem
4.6.2.2 Computer assembly                                                                                              -           -        -              -
4.6.2.3 General Purpose
                                                                                                                       A           A        -              -
Interface Test Module (GPITM)
4.6.2.4 SDA/MDA                                                                                                        A           B        -              -
4.6.2.5 Load cart assemblies                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.6.3 Modular Automatic Test
Equipment (MATE) Software
4.6.3.1 TISS MATE Operating
                                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
System ( MS-DOS)
4.6.3.2 MATE Test Executive
                                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
(MTE)
4.6.4 Perform
4.6.4.1 Confidence (CNF)
                                       *                                                                              2b           -        -              -
Test/Internal Self-Test (IST)
4.6.4.2 Confidence
                                       *                                                                              2b           -        -              -
Performance Diagnostics (CPD)
4.6.4.3 PLC                            *                                                                              2b           -        -              -
4.6.4.4 180-Day Calibration                     *                                                                      -           -        -              -
4.6.4.5 Software Maintenance                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.6.5 Isolate/Repair RF console
                                                                                                                      2b           -        -              -
malfunctions
4.6.6 Perform required
                                       *                                                                               -           -        -              -
inspections
4.6.7 Use TISS Utility Programs
4.6.7.1 Debug                                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.6.7.2 Bustalk                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.6.7.3 Signal path trace              *                                                                              2b           -        -              -
4.6.7.4 RF utility                     *                                                                              2b           -        -              -
4.6.8 Use TISS Data Display
                                                                                                                      2b           -        -              -
(TDD)

                                                                85
                                                                                                                              Attachment 4
                                    F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A              B           C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


4.6.9 TISS LRU/SRUs TR: TOs
1F-15A-2-99GS-00-1, 1F-15A-2-
99GS-00-2 (S)
4.6.9.1 AN/ALR-56A/C System
TR: TOs 12P3-2ALR56-18 series,
12P3-2ALR56-22 (S), 12P3-
2ALR56-38 series, 12P3-2ALR56-
78 series, 12P3-2ALR56-98
series, 12P3-2ALR56-118 series,
12P3-2ALR56-128 series, 12P3-
2ALR56-138 series
4.6.9.1.1 TEWS Display (LRU-
9A)
4.6.9.1.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                       -           -        -              -
4.6.9.1.1.2 Operational check                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.6.9.1.1.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                       -           -        -              -
4.6.9.1.1.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.6.9.1.2 Low-Band Receiver/
(LRU-3C)
4.6.9.1.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                       -           -        -              -
4.6.9.1.2.2 Operational check         *                                                                              2b           -        -              -
4.6.9.1.2.3 Troubleshoot/repair       *                                                                               -           -        -              -
4.6.9.1.2.4 Assemble /
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.6.9.1.3 High-Band Receiver
(LRU-6C)
4.6.9.1.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                       -           -        -              -
4.6.9.1.3.2 Operational check         *                                                                               -           -        -              -
4.6.9.1.3.3 Troubleshoot/repair       *                                                                               -           -        -              -
4.6.9.1.3.4 Assemble /
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.6.9.1.4 Power Supply
Processor (LRU-2C)
4.6.9.1.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                       -           -        -              -
4.6.9.1.4.2 Operational check                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.6.9.1.4.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                       -           -        -              -
4.6.9.1.4.4 Program/reprogram
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
TO 12P3-2ALR56-128-2
4.6.9.1.4.5 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.6.9.1.5 Band 1.5 TR: TO 12P3-
2ALQ135-12
                                                               86
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                    F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A              B           C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


4.6.9.1.5.1 Control Oscillator
TR: TO 12P3-2ALQ135-18-12
4.6.9.1.5.1.1 Theory of
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
operation
4.6.9.1.5.1.2 Operational check                                                                                       -           -        -              -
4.6.9.1.5.1.3 Troubleshoot/
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
repair
4.6.9.1.5.1.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.6.9.1.5.2 RF Amplifier TR: TO
12 P3-2ALQ135-18-4
4.6.9.1.5.2.1 Theory of
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
operation
4.6.9.1.5.2.2 Operational check                                                                                       -           -        -              -
4.6.9.1.5.2.3 Troubleshoot/
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
repair
4.6.9.1.5.2.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.6.9.2 AN/ALQ-135 System
(Band 1 and 2) TR: TOs 12P3-
2ALQ135-2 (S), 12P3-2ALQ135-8
series
4.6.9.2.1 RF Amplifiers
4.6.9.2.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                       -           -        -              -
4.6.9.2.1.2 Operational check                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.6.9.2.1.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                       -           -        -              -
4.6.9.2.1.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.6.9.2.2 Control Oscillators
4.6.9.2.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                       -           -        -              -
4.6.9.2.2.2 Operational check                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.6.9.2.2.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                       -           -        -              -
4.6.9.2.2.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.6.9.2.3 Tuning Units
4.6.9.2.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                       -           -        -              -
4.6.9.2.3.2 Operational check                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.6.9.2.3.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                       -           -        -              -
4.6.9.2.3.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.6.9.3 AN/ALQ-135 System
Band 3 TR: TO 12P3-2ALQ135-12


                                                               87
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                    F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A              B           C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


4.6.9.3.1 Control Oscillators TR:
TO 12P3-2ALQ135-18-8
4.6.9.3.1.1 Theory of operation
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
TO 12P3-2ALQ135-12
4.6.9.3.1.2 Operational check
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
TO 12P3-2ALQ135-18-8
4.6.9.3.1.3 Troubleshoot/repair
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
TO 12P3-2ALQ135-12
4.6.9.3.1.4 Assemble /
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.6.9.3.2 RF Amplifiers TR: TO
12P3-2ALQ135-18-4
4.6.9.3.2.1 Theory of operation
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
TO 12P3-2ALQ135-12
4.6.9.3.2.2 Operational check
                                                *                                                                     -           -        -              -
TO 12P3-2ALQ135-18-4
4.6.9.3.2.3 Troubleshoot/repair
                                                *                                                                     -           -        -              -
TO 12P3-2ALQ135-12
4.6.9.3.2.4 Assemble /
                                               *                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.6.9.3.3 Repeater Tuning Unit
TR: TO 12P3-2ALQ135-18-9
4.6.9.3.3.1 Theory of operation
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
TO 12P3-2ALQ135-12-1
4.6.9.3.3.2 Operational check
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
TO 12P3-2ALQ135-18-9
4.6.9.3.3.3 Troubleshoot/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
TO 12P3-2ALQ135-12-1
4.6.9.4 AN/ALQ-128 System
Receiver/Transmitter (LRU-201)
TR: TOs 12P3-2ALQ128-2 (S),
12P3-2ALQ128-48 series
4.6.9.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.6.9.4.2 Operational check                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.6.9.4.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.6.9.4.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7 AN/GSM-397 ELECTRONIC
SYSTEMS TEST SET (ESTS) TR:
33D7-38-305 series TR: TO
33D7-38-305 series (For
upgrade to 5-level personnel

                                                               88
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                    F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A              B           C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


must complete all core tasks in
DEFT area plus all core tasks in
two of the three following areas
- ESTS or TISS or RADAR)
4.7.1 Station Configuration
4.7.1.1 A1 Assembly -
                                                                                                                      -           A        -              -
CNTS/RFG1
4.7.1.2 A2 Assembly - ASA                                                                                             -           A        -              -
4.7.1.3 A3 Assembly - AC
                                                                                                                      -           A        -              -
power supplies
4.7.1.4 A4 Assembly - DC
                                                                                                                      -           A        -              -
power supplies
4.7.1.5 A5 Assembly - RF VXI                                                                                          -           A        -              -
4.7.1.6 A6 Assembly -
                                                                                                                      -           A        -              -
STIM/RESP VXI No. 1
4.7.1.7 A7 Assembly -
                                                                                                                      -           A        -              -
STIM/RESP VXI No. 2
4.7.1.8 A8 Assembly - power /
                                                                                                                      -           A        -              -
control unit
4.7.1.9 A9 Assembly - system
                                                                                                                      -           A        -              -
controller
4.7.1.10 System interconnect
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
assemblies (A10/11/12)
4.7.2 Theory of Operation
4.7.2.1 System controller                                                                                             -           A        -              -
4.7.2.2 VXI Chassis                                                                                                   -           A        -              -
4.7.2.3 AC Power equipment
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
assembly
4.7.2.4 DC Power equipment
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
assembly
4.7.2.5 RF Equipment
                                                                                                                      -           A        -              -
assemblies
4.7.3 Station Signal Flow
4.7.3.1 Power path                                                                                                    -           -        -              -
4.7.3.2 MXI Bus path                                                                                                  -           -        -              -
4.7.3.3 IEEE Bus path                                                                                                 -           -        -              -
4.7.3.4 RF Path                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
4.7.4 Station Operation
4.7.4.1 Use ESTS menu system                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.4.2 Use UNIX commands                                                                                             -           -        -              -
4.7.4.3 Load operating system                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.4.4 Load TPS                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
4.7.4.5 Perform confidence test       *                                                                               -           -        -              -
                                                               89
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                    F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A              B           C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


4.7.4.6 Station calibration                    *                                                                      -           -        -              -
4.7.4.7 Fault
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
isolation/detection
4.7.4.8 Perform required
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
inspections
4.7.4.9 Optical Measurement
System (OMS)
4.7.4.9.1 Perform calibration                  *                                                                      -           -        -              -
4.7.4.9.2 Transfer OFP/PFM
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
data from MDDEWS
4.7.4.9.3 Perform OFP file
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
conversion utility
4.7.5 ESTS LRU/SRUs TR: TOs
1F-15A-2-99GS-00-1, 1F-15A-2-
99GS-00-2 (S)
4.7.5.1 Multipurpose Display
Processor (MPDP) TR: TOs
11F47-13-14-8-20, 11F47-13-14-
2
4.7.5.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.1.2 Operational check                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.7.5.1.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.1.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.2 Analog to Digital
Converter (038) TR: TOs 12P2-
2APG70-48-37, 12P2-2APG70-42
4.7.5.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.2.2 Operational check                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.7.5.2.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.2.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.3 Radio Frequency
Oscillator (RFO) TR: TOs 12P2-
2APG63-78-10, 12P2-2APG63-72
4.7.5.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.3.2 Operational check                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.7.5.3.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.3.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.4 Multipurpose Display
Unit (MPD) TR: TO 11F47-13-15-
8-8, 11F47-13-15-2
                                                               90
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                    F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A              B           C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


4.7.5.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.4.2 Operational check                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.7.5.4.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.4.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.5 Radar Receiver (022)
TR: TO 12P2-2APG63-18-10,
12P2-2APG63-12
4.7.5.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.5.2 Operational check                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.7.5.5.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.5.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.6 Heads Up Display (HUD)
TR: TO 5N29-8-28-11, 5N29-8-2
**(NOTE: Units that possess the
C-HUD and Wide Field of View
HUD only qualify on one for
upgrade to 5 or 7 level)
4.7.5.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.6.2 Operational check           *                                                                               -           -        -              -
4.7.5.6.3 Troubleshoot/repair         *                                                                               -           -        -              -
4.7.5.6.4 Assemble /
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.7 Wide Field of View HUD
TR: TO 5N29-18-20, 5N29-18-2
**(NOTE: Units that possess the
C-HUD and Wide Field of View
HUD only qualify on one for
upgrade to 5 or 7 level)
4.7.5.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.7.2 Operational check           *                                                                               -           -        -              -
4.7.5.7.3 Troubleshoot/repair         *                                                                               -           -        -              -
4.7.5.7.4 Assemble /
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.8 Radar Receiver Exciter
(025) TR: TO 12P2-2APG70-8-13,
12P2-2APG70-2
4.7.5.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.8.2 Operational check           *                                                                               -           -        -              -
4.7.5.8.3 Troubleshoot/repair         *                                                                               -           -        -              -
4.7.5.8.4 Assemble /
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
disassemble

                                                               91
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                    F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A              B           C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


4.7.5.9 Air Data Computer
(ADC) TR: TO 5F5-4-25-8-20,
5F5-4-25-2
4.7.5.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.9.2 Operational check                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.7.5.9.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.9.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.10 Analog Radar Target
Data Processor (039) TR: TO
12P2-2APG63-58-11, 12P2-
2APG63-52
4.7.5.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.10.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.10.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.10.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.11 Digital Radar
Processor (044) TR: TO 12P2-
2APG70-38-14, 12P2-2APG70-32
4.7.5.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.11.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.11.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.11.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.12 Radar Data Processor
(081) TR: TO 12P2-2APG63-38-
54, 12P2-2APG63-32
4.7.5.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.12.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.12.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.12.4 Program/re-program                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.12.5 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.13 Radar Data Processor
(082) TR: TO 12P2-2APG70-28-
13, 12P2-2APG70-22
4.7.5.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.13.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.13.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.13.4 Program/re-program                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.13.5 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
                                                               92
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                    F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A              B           C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


4.7.5.14 Automatic Direction
Finder (ADF) Control Amp TR:
TO 12R5-2ARD-108-2, 12R5-
2ARD-102
4.7.5.14.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.14.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.14.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.14.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.15 Avionic Interface Unit
(AIU) #1 TR: TO 11F1-ASQ195-
38-1, 11F1-2ASQ-195-2
4.7.5.15.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.15.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.15.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.15.4 Program/re-program                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.15.5 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.16 Avionic Interface Unit
(AIU) #2 TR: TO 11F1-ASQ195-
48-1, 11F1-ASQ195-2
4.7.5.16.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.16.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.16.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.16.4 Program/re-program                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.16.5 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.17 Air Navigational
Multiple Indicator (ANMI) TR:
TO 5F8-22-2-8-41, 5F8-22-3-2
4.7.5.17.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.17.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.17.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.17.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.18 Bit Control Panel TR:
TO 5A13-5-15-8-9, 5A13-5-15-3
4.7.5.18.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.18.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.18.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.18.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble

                                                               93
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                    F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A              B           C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


4.7.5.19 Dispensing Switch
Assembly (DSA) TR: TO 12P3-
2ALE45-28-3, 12P3-2ALE45-2
4.7.5.19.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.19.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.19.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.19.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.20 Electronic Air Inlet
Controller (EAIC) TR: TO 5F28-2-
8-20, 5F28-2-2
4.7.5.20.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.20.2 Operational check          *                                                                               -           -        -              -
4.7.5.20.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.21 Electronic Control
Amplifier (ECA) TR: TO 5A1-9-3-
8-19, 5A1-9-3-2
4.7.5.21.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.21.2 Operational Check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.21.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.21.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.22 Electronic Command
Signal Programmer (ECSP) TR:
TO 12P3-2ALE45-28-2, 12P3-
2ALE45-2
4.7.5.22.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.22.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.22.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.22.4 Program/re-program                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.22.5 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.23 Engine Monitor
Display TR: TO 5E1-2-14-8-8,
5E1-2-14-2
4.7.5.23.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.23.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.23.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.23.4 Program/re-program                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.23.5 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble



                                                               94
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                    F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A              B           C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


4.7.5.24 Flight Control
Computer (FCC) TR: TO 5A7-3-
43-8-12, 5A7-3-43-2
4.7.5.24.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.24.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.24.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.24.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.25 Flight Data Adapter
(FDA) TR: TO 5F8-16-7-28-3,
5F8-16-7-4
4.7.5.25.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.25.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.25.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.25.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.26 Interference Blanker
(IB) TR: TO 12P4-2A-118-18,
12P4-2A-112
4.7.5.26.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.26.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.26.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.26.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.27 Integrated
Communications Control Panel
(ICCP) TR: TO 12R1-2ARA-118-1,
12S1-2ARA-102
4.7.5.27.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.27.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.27.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.27.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.28 Integrated
Communications Control Panel
Have Quick (ICCP HQ) TR: TO
12S1-2ARA-102
4.7.5.28.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.28.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.28.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.28.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble


                                                               95
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                    F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A              B           C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


4.7.5.29 Intercommunications
Set (ICSCP) TR: TO 12R2-4-280-
8-13, 12R2-4-280-2
4.7.5.29.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.29.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.29.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.29.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.30 Identify Friend or Foe
Control Panel (IFF CP)TR: TO
12S1-2A-108-28, 12S1-2A-102
4.7.5.30.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.30.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.30.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.30.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
Disassemble
4.7.5.31 Instrument Landing
System (ILS) Receiver TR: TO
12R5-2ARN109-8-1, 12R5-2ARN-
422
4.7.5.31.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.31.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.31.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.31.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.32 Radar Target Data
Processor Interrogator Reply
Evaluator (IRE) TR: TO 12P4-
2APX-218-3-1, 12PR-2APX-212
4.7.5.32.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.32.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.32.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.32.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.33 Multipurpose Color
Display (MPCD)TR: TO 11F47-13-
10-8-2, 11F47-13-10-2
4.7.5.33.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.33.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.33.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.33.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble

                                                               96
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                    F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A              B           C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


4.7.5.34 Navigational Control
Indicator (NCI) TR: TO 5N8-16-2-
8-8, 5N1-3-24-2
4.7.5.34.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.34.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.34.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.34.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.35 Programmable
Armament Control Set
Converter Programmer (PACS
C/P)TR: TO 11B13-4-10-8-2,
11B13-4-10-2
4.7.5.35.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.35.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.35.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.35.4 Program/re-program                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.35.5 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.36 Pitch Computer TR: TO
5A7-3-30-8-12, 5A1-2-43-2
4.7.5.36.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.36.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.36.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.36.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.37 Programmable Signal
Data Processor (PSDP) TR: TO
5A46-2-3-8-23, 5A46-2-3-2
4.7.5.37.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.37.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.37.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.37.4 Program/re-program                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.37.5 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.38 Radar Set Control TR:
TO 12P2-2APG63-68-2, 12P2-
2APG63-62
4.7.5.38.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.38.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.38.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.38.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
                                                               97
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                    F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A              B           C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


4.7.5.39 Radar Set Control
(MSIP/70) TR: TO 12P2-2APG70-
58-1, 12P2-2APG70-52
4.7.5.39.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.39.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.39.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.39.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.40 Roll/Yaw Computer
TR: TO 5A7-3-31-8-12, 5A1-2-43-
2
4.7.5.40.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.40.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.40.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.40.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.41 TACAN Mount TR: TO
12R5-2ARN118-8-1, 12R5-4-106-
13
4.7.5.41.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.41.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.41.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.41.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.42 Upfront Control Panel
(UFCP) TR: TO 12R5-4-222-8-3,
12R5-4-222-3
4.7.5.42.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.42.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.42.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.42.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.43 VCC/VCC+TR: TO 5N5-
19-2-8-16
4.7.5.43.1 Load/verify OFP                                                                                            -           -        -              -
4.7.5.44 Digital Radar Signal
Processor (042) TR: TO 12P2-
2APG63-98-22, 12P2-2APG63-
102
4.7.5.44.1 Theory of operation                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.44.2 Operational check                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.44.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.7.5.44.4 Assemble /                                                                                                 -           -        -              -
                                                               98
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                     F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                     2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                       A        B       A              B           C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                        3           5                7
                                                                                                                      Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                     Level        Level            Level
                                     5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng            Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                        Start        Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


disassemble
4.7.5.45 Heads-up Display
Signal Data Processor
(HUD/SDP) TR: TO 5N29-8-18-
21, 5N29-8-2
4.7.5.45.1 Theory of operation                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.45.2 Operational check                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.7.5.45.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.45.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.46 Embedded GPS Inertial
(EGI) 5N1-4-22-18-1
4.7.5.46.1 Theory of operation                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.46.2 Operational check                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.7.5.46.3 Program/re-program                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.47 Air Data Processor
(ADP) TR: TO 5F5-4-47-8-1
4.7.5.47.1 Theory of operation                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.47.2 Operational check                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.7.5.47.3 Program/re-program                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.7.5.47.4 Assemble /
                                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
disassemble
4.7.5.48 Digital Mapping
System (DMS) TR: TO 12P5-4-87-
8-8
4.7.5.48.1 Theory of operation                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.7.5.48.2 Operational check                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.7.5.48.3 Program/re-program                                                                                          -           -        -              -
4.8 CRYPTO SYSTEMS (C)
4.8.1 Digital Engine Functional
Tester (DEFT) (For upgrade to
5-level personnel must
complete all core tasks in DEFT
area plus all core tasks in two of
the three following areas - ESTS
or TISS or RADAR)
4.8.1.1 Theory                                                                                                         -           -        -              -
4.8.1.2 Perform maintenance
                                                *                                                                      -           -        -              -
testing
4.8.2 Digital Electronic Engine
Controller (DEEC)TR: TO 6J3-4-
117-2
4.8.2.1 Theory                                                                                                         -           A        -              -

                                                                99
                                                                                                                              Attachment 4
                                    F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A           B              C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start     Complete       Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


4.8.2.2 Perform maintenance
                                       *                                                                              -           -        -              -
testing
4.8.2.3 Isolate/repair
                                       *                                                                              -           -        -              -
malfunctions
4.8.2.4 Assemble / disassemble        *                                                                               -           -        -              -
4.8.3 Engine Diagnostic Unit
(EDU) TR: TO 5E1-2-15-2
4.8.3.1 Theory                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.8.3.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
testing
4.8.3.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
4.8.3.4 Assemble / disassemble                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.8.4 Engine Control Throttle
Quadrant Assembly TR: TOs
2JA8-24-2,2JA8-24-12
4.8.4.1 Theory                                                                                                        -           -        -              -
4.8.4.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
testing
4.8.4.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
4.8.5 Field Reprogramming Set
4.8.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
4.8.5.2 Operate                                                                                                       -           -        -              -




                                                           100
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                    E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A           B              C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start     Complete       Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


5 ATTACHMENT 5, E-8
TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
5.1 Transportable Benchtop
Reconfigurable Automatic
Tester (BRAT)
5.1.1 200/400 Series TR: TOs
33D7-3-429-1
5.1.1.1 Familiarization               *                                                                               -           -        -              -
5.1.1.2 Self tests / operational
checks                                 *                                                                              -           -        -              -
5.1.1.3 Isolate/repair
                                                *                                                                     -           -        -              -
malfunction
5.1.2 B512 TR: TOs 33D7-3-
437-1
5.1.2.1 Familiarization                         *                                                                     -           -        -              -
5.1.2.2 Self tests/operational
                                       *                                                                              -           -        -              -
checks
5.1.2.3 Isolate/repair
                                                *                                                                     -           -        -              -
malfunction
5.1.3 Channel Receiver TR: TO
81W-APY3-U045-00A, 81W-
APY3-U045-00D, 1E-8C-12
5.1.3.1 Minimum performance                                                                                           -           -        -              -
5.1.4 Phase Shifter TR: TOs
81W-APY3-U046-00A, 81W-
APY3-U046-00D, 1E-8C-12
5.1.4.1 Minimum performance                                                                                           -           -        -              -
5.1.5 Frequency Agile Filter
(FAF) TR: TOs 81W-APY3-U053-
00A, 1E-8C-12
5.1.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
5.1.5.2 Perform operational
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
checks
5.1.5.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
5.1.6 IMS/IMU TR: TOs 81W-
APY3-U047-00A, 1E-8C-12
5.1.6.1 Minimum performance                                                                                           -           -        -              -
5.1.7 Radar High Power
Combiner (HPC) TR: TOs81W-
E8C-U006A/D, 1E-8C-12
5.1.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -

                                                           101
                                                                                                                             Attachment 5
                                    E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A           B              C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start     Complete       Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


5.1.7.2 Perform operational
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
checks
5.1.7.3 Isolate/repair
malfunctions TR: TO 81W-E8C-                                                                                          -           -        -              -
U001-00A, 1E-8C-12
5.1.8 Radar Transmitter (XMTR)
TR: TO 81W-E8C-U001-00A, 1E-
8C-12
5.1.8.1 Theory of operation                    *                                                                      -           -        -              -
5.1.8.2 Perform operational
                                               *                                                                      -           -        -              -
checks
5.1.8.3 Isolate/repair
                                               *                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
5.1.9 Crew Member
Terminal/Flight Station Unit
(CMT/FSU ) TR: TOs 81C-
ARY3/E8-030-00A, 1E-8C-12
5.1.9.1 Theory of operation           *                                                                               -           -        -              -
5.1.9.2 Perform operational
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
checks
5.1.9.3 Isolate/repair
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
malfunctions
5.1.10 General Interface
Terminal (GIT) TR: TO 81W-
APY3-U052-00A, 1E-8C-12
5.1.10.1 Theory of operation          *                                                                               -           -        -              -
5.1.10.2 Perform operational
                                      *                                                                               -           -        -              -
checks
5.1.10.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
5.1.11 Radar Analog/Digital
Converter Receiver (RCVR) TR:
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
TO 81W-E8C-U069 A/D, 1E-8C-
12
5.1.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
5.1.11.2 Perform operational
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
checks
5.1.11.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
5.1.12 Radar Exciter (XCTR) TR:
TOs 81W-E8C-U004 A/D, 1E-8C-
12
5.1.12.1 Theory of operation                   *                                                                      -           -        -              -
5.1.12.2 Perform operational                   *                                                                      -           -        -              -

                                                           102
                                                                                                                             Attachment 5
                                    E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A           B              C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start     Complete       Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


checks
5.1.12.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
5.1.13 Radar Antenna Servo
Electronics (ASE) TR: TO 81W-
E8C-U002 A/D, 1E-8C-12
5.1.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                          -           -        -              -
5.1.13.2 Perform operational
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
checks
5.1.13.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
5.2 VHF ARC-186                                                                                                       -           -        -              -
5.2.1 ARC-186 RT TR: 12R2-
2ARC186-2-WA-1
5.2.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
5.2.1.2 Perform operational
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
checks
5.2.1.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
5.3 HF ARC-190
5.3.1 CU-2275(V) Coupler TR:
12R2-2ARC-190-2-WA-1
5.3.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
5.3.1.2 Perform operational
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
checks
5.3.1.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
5.3.2 RT-1341(V) RT TR: 12R2-
2ARC-190-2-WA-1
5.3.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
5.3.2.2 Perform operational
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
checks
5.3.2.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
5.4 VOR
5.4.1 R-2325/ARN-147 Receiver
TR: 12R5-2ARN147-2-WA-1,
12R5-2ARN161-24-WA-1
5.4.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
5.4.1.2 Perform operational
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
checks
5.4.1.3 Isolate/repair                                                                                                -           -        -              -
                                                           103
                                                                                                                             Attachment 5
                                    E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A           B              C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start     Complete       Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


malfunctions
5.5 GPS
5.5.1 R-2332/ARN151 Receiver
TR: 12R5-2ARN151-12-WA-1
5.5.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
5.5.1.2 Perform operational
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
checks
5.5.1.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
5.6 ICS                                                                                                               -           -        -              -
5.6.1 C-6624/AIC-25 Single
Network Intercommunications
Panel (SNIP) TR: 12R2-2AIC25-2,
12R2-2AIC25-4-WA-1
5.6.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
5.6.1.2 Perform operational
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
checks
5.6.1.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions
5.7 CRYPTO SYSTEMS (C)
5.7.1 Secure Voice (KY-58) TR:
TOs KAM-337A/TSEC (C), KAM-
339A/TSEC (C)
5.7.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -           -        -              -
5.7.1.2 Perform operational
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
checks
5.7.1.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                      -           -        -              -
malfunctions




                                                           104
                                                                                                                             Attachment 5
                            AVIONICS FUNDAMENTALS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A           B              C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start     Complete       Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


6 AVIONIC FUNDAMENTALS
6.1 AVIONIC SUPPORT
SUBJECTS
6.1.1 Safety                                                                                                          B           -        -              -
6.1.2 First aid                                                                                                       A           -        -              -
6.1.3 Electrostatic Discharge
                                                                                                                      B           -        -              -
(ESD) control
6.1.4 Electromagnetic Effects
                                                                                                                      B           -        -              -
(EMP / EMI)
6.1.5 Metric Notation
6.1.5.1 Powers of ten                                                                                                 B           -        -              -
6.1.5.2 Electrical prefixes                                                                                           B           -        -              -
6.1.6 Digital numbering
                                                                                                                      A           -        -              -
systems
6.1.7 Common tools                                                                                                    A           -        -              -
6.1.8 Technical publications                                                                                          A           -        -              -
6.1.9 Documentation                                                                                                   A           -        -              -
6.2 Test Equipment                                                                                                    -
6.2.1 Use digital multimeter                                                                                         2b           -        -              -
6.2.2 Use oscilloscope                                                                                               2b           -        -              -
6.2.3 Wave generators                                                                                                A            -        -              -
6.3 Basic Electricity
6.3.1 Direct Current (DC)                                                                                             B           -        -              -
6.3.2 Alternating Current (AC)                                                                                        B           -        -              -
6.3.3 Resistance theory                                                                                               B           -        -              -
6.3.4 Measure resistance                                                                                             2b           -        -              -
6.3.5 Capacitance theory                                                                                             B            -        -              -
6.3.6 Inductance theory                                                                                              B            -        -              -
6.4 Electromagnetic Devices
6.4.1 Transformers                                                                                                    B           -        -              -
6.4.2 Relays And Solenoids
6.4.2.1 Theory                                                                                                       B            -        -              -
6.4.2.2 Troubleshoot relays                                                                                          2b           -        -              -
6.4.3 Motor Theory
6.4.3.1 DC                                                                                                            A           -        -              -
6.4.3.2 AC                                                                                                            A           -        -              -
6.4.4 Generator Theory
6.4.4.1 DC                                                                                                            A           -        -              -
6.4.4.2 AV                                                                                                            A           -        -              -
6.4.5 Synchro/servo                                                                                                   B           -        -              -
6.4.6 Transducer                                                                                                      B           -        -              -
                                                           105
                                                                                                                             Attachment 6
                            AVIONICS FUNDAMENTALS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A           B              C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start     Complete       Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


6.5 Solid State Devices
6.5.1 Theory                                                                                                          A           -        -              -
6.5.2 Diodes (LED, Zener, etc)                                                                                        A           -        -              -
6.5.3 Integrated Circuits (IC)                                                                                        A           -        -              -
6.5.4 Operational amplifiers                                                                                          A           -        -              -
6.6 Power Supply Circuits
6.6.1 Theory                                                                                                          B           -        -              -
6.7 Wave Generating Circuits
6.7.1 Theory                                                                                                          A           -        -              -
6.8 Digital Logic Circuits
6.8.1 Theory                                                                                                          A           -        -              -
6.8.2 Gates                                                                                                           A           -        -              -
6.8.3 Flip flops                                                                                                      A           -        -              -
6.8.4 Digital to analog and
                                                                                                                      A           -        -              -
analog to digital converters
6.9 Basic Computer & Network
Fundamentals
6.9.1 Theory                                                                                                          A           -        -              -
6.9.2 Network components                                                                                              A           -        -              -
6.9.3 Protocols                                                                                                       A           -        -              -
6.9.4 Topologies (Architecture)                                                                                       A           -        -              -
6.10 Basic Communications
6.10.1 Radio Frequency theory                                                                                         A           -        -              -
6.10.2 Frequency spectrum                                                                                             A           -        -              -
6.10.3 Modulation (AM/FM)                                                                                             A           -        -              -
6.10.4 Demodulation (AM/FM)                                                                                           A           -        -              -
6.10.5 Receivers/Transmitters
                                                                                                                      A           -        -              -
AFI 38-101 / AFPD 38-1
6.10.6 Transmission mediums
                                                                                                                      A           -        -              -
theory
6.10.7 Waveguides                                                                                                     A           -        -              -
6.10.8 Data buses                                                                                                     A           -        -              -
6.10.9 Fiber optics                                                                                                   A           -        -              -
6.10.10 Coaxial cables                                                                                                A           -        -              -
6.10.11 Antennas                                                                                                      A           -        -              -
6.11 Assemble Solder Type
Connections
6.11.1 Terminal connections                                                                                          1b           -        -              -
6.11.2 Mutipin connector                                                                                             1b           -        -              -
6.11.3 Coaxial connector                                                                                             1b           -        -              -
6.11.4 Desolder procedures                                                                                           1b           -        -              -
                                                           106
                                                                                                                             Attachment 6
                            AVIONICS FUNDAMENTALS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                    2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
References
                                      A        B       A           B              C         D           E            A           B                C
                                                                                                                       3           5                7
                                                                                                                     Skill       Skill            Skill
                                                                                                                    Level        Level            Level
                                    5 Lvl    7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifier       (1)         (1)      (1)         (1)
                                                       Start     Complete       Initials   Initials    Initials   Course        CDC      Course      CDC


6.12 Assemble Solderless Type
Connections
6.12.1 Coaxial connector                                                                                             1b           -        -              -
6.12.2 Multipin connector                                                                                            1b           -        -              -
6.12.3 Twin-axial connector
                                                                                                                     1b           -        -              -
(data bus)
6.12.4 Crimped Connection
6.12.4.1 Terminal lugs                                                                                               1b           -        -              -
6.12.4.2 Wire splice                                                                                                 1b           -        -              -
6.12.5 Shield terminations                                                                                           1b           -        -              -
6.13 General Maintenance
Practices
6.13.1 Assemble mutipin
                                                                                                                     1b           -        -              -
connector Harness
6.13.2 Secure cable harness                                                                                          1b           -        -              -
6.13.3 Use safety wire                                                                                               1b           -        -              -
6.13.4 Troubleshooting
Procedures
6.13.4.1 Isolate wire open                                                                                           1b           -        -              -
6.13.4.2 Isolate wire short                                                                                          1b           -        -              -
6.13.4.3 Isolate voltage fault on
multipin connector harness AFI                                                                                       1b           -        -              -
21-101
6.13.4.4 Isolate crossed
connection on multipin                                                                                               1b           -        -              -
connector harness




                                                           107
                                                                                                                             Attachment 6
                                          2AX7X CDC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                  Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                  Provided
                                                                                                     A         B           C
1. Tasks Knowledge And Technical References                                                       3-Skill
                                                                                                            5-Skill Level           7-Skill Level
                                                                                                  Level

                                                                                                  Course         CDC            Course         CDC


Attachment 7 – AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
NOTE 1: Columns 2 and 3 are deleted from this STS because all items are SUBJECT KNOWLEDGE LEVEL only and require
        no certification.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: This attachment is to be used in conjunction with other attachments in applicable CFETPs.
NOTE 4: Personnel must complete CDC requirements on all MDSs/attachments.
NOTE 5: This attachment is to be used as a correlation document for the 2AX7X, 7-level Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman,
        CDCs.
7.1. MAINTENANCE PHILOSOPHY AND POLICY
                                                                                                                            -              -         -
7.1.1. Aircraft and Equipment Readiness TR: AFI 21-101                                                -           -                 -          A
                                                                                                                            -              -         -
7.1.2. Maintenance Concept TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-129                                              -           -                 -          A
                                                                                                                            -              -         -
7.1.3. Reliability and Maintainability (R&M) TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-118 and TO 00-35D-54              -           -                  -         A
                                                                                                                            -              -         -
7.1.4. Operating Instructions (OI) TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 33-360                                      -           -                  -         A
7.1.5. Maintenance Information Systems (MIS) TR: AFCSM 21-556 Volume 2, AFI 21-101, AFI 21-116,                             -              -         -
and TO 00-20-2                                                                                        -           -                 -          B
                                                                                                                            -              -         -
7.1.6. Maintenance Metrics TR: AFI 21-103 and AFTTP 3-3                                               -           -                 -          A
                                                                                                                            -              -         -
7.1.7. Maintenance Repair Priorities TR: AFI 21-101                                                   -           -                 -          A
                                                                                                                            -              -         -
7.1.8. Historical Aircraft and Equipment Records TR: AFI 21-101 and TO 00-20-1                        -           -                 -          A
7.2. MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION KEY LEADER RESPONSIBILITIES
                                                                                                                            -              -         -
7.2.1. Wing Commander (WG/CC) TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101                                           -           -                 -          A
                                                                                                                            -              -         -
7.2.2. Wing Vice Commander (WG/CV) TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101                                      -           -                 -          A
                                                                                                                            -              -         -
7.2.3. Maintenance Group Commander (MXG/CC) TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101                             -           -                 -          A
                                                                                                                            -              -         -
7.2.4. Maintenance Group Deputy Commander (MXG/CD) TR: AFI 21-101                                     -           -                 -          A
                                                                                                                            -              -         -
7.2.5. MXG Superintendent (SUPT) TR: AFI 21-101                                                       -           -                 -          A
                                                                                                                            -              -         -
7.2.6. Squadron Commander (SQ/CC) TR: AFI 21-101                                                      -           -                 -          A
                                                                                                                            -              -         -
7.2.7. Maintenance Operations Officer (MOO)/Maintenance Superintendent (MX SUPT) TR: AFI 21-101       -           -                 -          A
                                                                                                                            -              -         -
7.2.8. Flight Commander/Flight Chief   TR: AFI 21-101                                                 -           -                 -          A
                                                                                                                            -              -         -
7.2.9. AMU OIC/Superintendent (SUPT) TR: AFI 21-101                                                   -           -                 -          A
                                                                                                                            -              -         -
7.2.10. Section NCOIC/Chief TR: AFI 21-101                                                            -           -                 -          B
                                                                                                                            -              -         -
7.2.11. Production Superintendent (Pro Super) TR: AFI 21-101                                          -           -                 -          A
7.3. FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS SQUADRON (MOS)
                                                                                                                            -              -         -
7.3.1. Maintenance Operations Flight (MOF) TR: AFI 21-101                                         -          -                  -              A


                                                               108
                                                                                                                  Attachment 7
                                           2AX7X CDC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                       Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                       Provided
                                                                                                          A         B           C
1. Tasks Knowledge And Technical References                                                            3-Skill
                                                                                                                 5-Skill Level         7-Skill Level
                                                                                                       Level

                                                                                                       Course       CDC              Course       CDC

                                                                                                                                 -            -         -
7.3.2. Maintenance Training Flight (MTF) TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 36-2232                                  -            -                 -         A
                                                                                                                                 -            -         -
7.3.3. Programs and Resources Flight TR: AFI 21-101                                                      -            -                 -         A
7.4. FUNCTIONS OF AIRCRAFT/HELICOPTER MAINTENANCE SQUADRON (AMXS/HMXS)
                                                                                                                                 -            -         -
7.4.1. Aircraft Maintenance Unit (AMU) TR: AFI 21-101                                                    -            -                 -         A
                                                                                                                                 -            -         -
7.4.2. Flightline Expediter TR: AFI 21-101                                                               -            -                 -         A
                                                                                                                                 -            -         -
7.4.3. Aircrew and Maintenance Debrief Section TR: AFI 21-101                                            -            -                 -         A
                                                                                                                                 -            -         -
7.4.4. Aircraft Section TR: AFI 21-101                                                                   -            -                 -         A
                                                                                                                                 -            -         -
7.4.5. Specialist Section TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 -            -                 -         A
                                                                                                                                 -            -         -
7.4.6. Weapons Section TR: AFI 21-101                                                                    -            -                 -         A
                                                                                                                                 -            -         -
7.4.7. Support Section TR: AFI 21-101                                                                    -            -                 -         A
7.5. FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE SQUADRON (MXS)
                                                                                                                                 -            -         -
7.5.1. Accessories Flight TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 -            -                 -         A
                                                                                                                                 -            -         -
7.5.2. Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) Flight TR: AFI 21-101                                            -            -                 -         A
                                                                                                                                 -            -         -
7.5.3. Armament Flight TR: AFI 21-101                                                                    -            -                 -         A
                                                                                                                                 -            -         -
7.5.4. Avionic Flight TR: AFI 21-101                                                                     -            -                 -         A
                                                                                                                                 -            -         -
7.5.5. Fabrication Flight TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 -            -                 -         A
                                                                                                                                 -            -         -
7.5.6. Maintenance Flight TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 -            -                 -         A
                                                                                                                                 -            -         -
7.5.7. Munitions Flight TR: AFI 21-101                                                                   -            -                 -         A
                                                                                                                                 -            -         -
7.5.8. Propulsion Flight TR: AFI 21-101                                                                  -            -                 -         A
                                                                                                                                 -            -         -
7.5.9. Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE) Flight TR: AFI 21-101                          -            -                 -         A
7.6. MAINTENANCE TRAINING
                                                                                                                                 -            -         -
7.6.1 Types of Training TR: AFI 36-2232, and the ETCA site located at: https://etca.randolph.af.mil/     -            -                 -         A
                                                                                                                                 -            -         -
7.6.2. Training Documentation TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2201 and AFI 36-2232                                -            -                 -         A
                                                                                                                                 -            -         -
7.6.3. Training Business Area (TBA) TR: https://www.my.af.mil/imdsltpa/IMDSTWeb/ActionServlet            -            -                 -         B
                                                                                                                                 -            -         -
7.6.4. Special Certification Rosters TR: AFI 21-101                                                      -            -                 -         A
                                                                                                                                 -            -         -
7.6.5. Maintenance Qualification Program (MQP) TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2232 and AFPD 10-9                 -            -                 -         A
7.6.6. Training Management TR: AFI 36-2201, AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101 and AETCI 36-2601
                                                                                                                                 -            -         -
7.6.6.1. Training Forecast                                                                               -            -                 -         A
                                                                                                                                 -            -         -
7.6.6.2. Training Request                                                                                -            -                 -         A
                                                                   109
                                                                                                                      Attachment 7
