DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                       Change 1
Headquarters US Air Force                                                     CFETP 3S0X1
Washington DC 20330-1000                                                       01 May 2013



                                      AFSC 3S0X1

                                      PERSONNEL




                Basic                                                  Senior




                                           Master


                        CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND
                                    TRAINING PLAN

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e -publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                          CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                    PERSONNEL SPECIALTY
                                         AFSC 3S0X1
                                                       TABLE OF CONTENTS

PART I
Preface .................................................................................................................................. 1

Abbreviations and Terms Explained ..................................................................................... 2

Section A -- General Information ......................................................................................... 7
       Purpose of the CFETP ............................................................................................... 7
       Use of the CFETP ...................................................................................................... 7
       Coordination and Approval of the CFETP ................................................................ 8

Section B -- Career Progression and Information ................................................................ .8
       Specialty Descriptions ............................................................................................. . .8
       Specialty Qualifications ............................................................................................ .9
       Training Decisions.................................................................................................... 9
              Initial Skills
              Five-Skill Level
              Seven-Skill Level
              Proficiency
       Community College of the Air Force ....................................................................... 10
       Professional Affiliations and Fraternal Organization ........................................................10
       Career Field Path ..................................................................................................... 11

Section C -- Skill Level Training Requirements ................................................................. 13
       Purpose .................................................................................................................... 13
       Specialty Qualifications ........................................................................................... 13
              Apprentice Level Training
              Journeyman Level Training
              Craftsman Level Training
              Superintendent Level Training
Section D -- Resource Constraints ...................................................................................... 15

Section E -- Transitional Training Guide ............................................................................ 15

PART II

Section A, Specialty Training Standard .............................................................................. 16
Section B, Course Objective List ........................................................................................ 35
Section C, Support Materials .............................................................................................. 35
Section D, Training Course Index ....................................................................................... 35
Section E, MAJCOM Unique Requirements ………………
…..……….………… .…..…….35
OPR: 335 TRS/TRR
Certified by: HQ AF/A1XX
Supersedes: CFETP3S0X1, 01 September 2011




                                                                     i
                          PERSONNEL SPECIALTY
                               AFSC 3S0X1
                CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN


Part I

Preface
1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education
and training document that identifies life -cycle education/training requirements, training
support resources, and minimum core task requirements for this specialty. The C FETP will
provide personnel a clear path to success and instill rigor in all aspects of career field
training. Note: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty
position qualification training.

2. The CFETP consists of two (2) parts; both parts of the plan are used by supervisors to
plan, manage, and control training within the career field.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section
A explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C
associates each level with specialty qualifications ( knowledge, education, training, experience,
and other mandatory requirements). Section D indicates resource constraints. Section E
identifies transition training guide requirements for SSgt through MSgt.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS)
and includes duties, tasks, technical references to support training, Air Education and Training
Command (AETC) conducted training, wartime course and core task and correspondence course
requirements. Section B contains the training standards which supervisors will use to determine
if airmen satisfied training requirements. Section C identifies available support materials. An
example is a Qualification Training Package (QTP) which may be developed to support
proficiency training. Section D identifies a training course index supervisors can use to
determine resources available to support training. Included here are both mandatory and optional
courses. Section E identifies MAJCOM unique training requirements supervisors can use to
determine additional training required for the associated qualification needs. At unit level,
supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate
with the overall goals of this plan.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive
effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan will enable
us to train today‟s work force for tomorrow‟s jobs.




                                              1
Abbreviation and Terms Explained


Advanced Distributed Learning (ADL). An evolving, outcomes-focused approach to
education, training, and performance aiding that blends standards-based distributed learning
models emphasizing reusable content objects, content and learning management systems,
performance support systems/devices, web applications services, and connectivity. ADL is an
evolution of distributed learning (distance learning) that emphasizes collaboration on standards-
based versions of reusable objects, networks, and learning management systems, yet may include
some legacy methods and media. ADL is structured learning that takes place without requiring the
physical presence of an instructor. Although the AF uses the term advanced distributed learning,
some federal agencies and DoD components may use the term distance learning. These terms refer
to the same basic concept.

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). Representative appointed by the respective
HQ USAF Deputy Chief of Staff or Under Secretariat, to ensure assigned AF specialties are
trained and utilized to support AF mission requirements. AFCFM is the OPR; however,
works in concert with MAJCOM, FOA, DRU, ANG, and AFRC Functional Managers (FMs)
as required.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard/Command Job Qualification Standard
(AFJQS/CJQS). A comprehensive task list which describes a particular job type or duty
position. They are used by supervisors to document task qualifications. The tasks on
AFJQS/CJQS are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Air Force Specialty. A group of positions (with the same title and code) that require
common qualifications.

Air Force Training Record System (AFTRS). The purpose of the Air Force Training
Record (AFTR) is to reduce the administrative burden of the unit training managers;
automate management, enrollment and transcription of upgrade training records; and
reduce or eliminate printing, handling, packaging, revising, and shipping costs associated
with the distribution of training material.

Assignment Management System (AMS). AMS is an online program used for assignment
preferences and career management, contains career information on officers and enlisted
airmen, as well as some personal information such as birth dates and social security numbers.
It does not contain personal addresses, phone numbers or specific information about family
members.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). CFETP is a comprehensive core
training document that identifies: life-cycle education and training requirements; training
support resources; and minimum core task requirements for a specialty. The CFETP aims to
give personnel a clear path and instill a sense of industry in career field training.

Case Management System (CMS). HR-CMS is a case management system used for
entering, tracking, resolving and reporting on human resources (HR) system related cases
within the United States Air Force. It was developed to give base-level offices the ability to
communicate with all levels of the human resources communities to resolve problems with
member‟s computer records that cannot be resolved by directly updating the various HR
systems. It also provides a tracking capability that enables all levels of the HR community to

                                              2
perform management oversight. Finally, the embedded reporting system using a central
database can be used to monitor trends in all types of HR systems related member cases.

Certification. A formal indication of an individual‟s ability to perform a task to required
standards.

Certification Official. A person whom the commander assigns to determine an
individual‟s ability to perform a task to required standards.
Contact Center. Contact center is a consolidated operation servicing the entire AF and
performing personnel actions from a single location. Customer service experts are
available 24/7 with smart tools, delivering high quality customer service. Its purpose is
to leverage technology to execute and integrate personnel operations to suppor t
commanders, their people, and personnel field activities.

Continuation Training. Additional advanced training exceeding the minimum upgrade
training requirements with emphasis on present or future duty assignments.
Core Task. Tasks the AFCFM identify as minimum qualification requirements for everyone
within an AFSC, regardless of duty position. Core tasks may be specified for a particular skill
level or in general across the AFSC. Guidance for using core tasks can be found in the
applicable CFETP narrative.

Cross Utilization Training (CUT). Training designed to qualify personnel to perform
tasks that are not established requirements in their awarded AFSC.
DCAPES. Deliberate and Crisis Action Planning and Execution Segments is an Air
Force system that compliments JOPES. It does what JOPES does but provides a more
detailed look down to the individual Airman versus stopping at the unit level. JOPES
only goes to the unit level. DCAPES also allows us to accomplish force accountability
and plan for supporting rotational operations.

Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA). Contains specific MAJCOM
procedures, fund cite instructions, reporting instructions, and listings for those formal courses
conducted or managed by the MAJCOMs or field operating agencies (FOAs). The ETCA contains
courses conducted or administered by the AF and reserve forces and serves as a reference for the
AF, DoD, other military services, government agencies, and security assistance programs.

Enlisted Specialty Training. A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Enroute (PCS-Associated) Training. The training of students in a temporary duty
(TDY) status while undergoing a permanent change of station (PCS) . Usually
accomplished due to special training required at the new duty location.

Essential Station Messing (ESM). Food furnished to enlisted personnel at government
expense. ESM is also termed "Rations-In-Kind."

Field Training. Technical, operator, and other training either a training detachment or field
training team conducts at operational locations on specific systems and associated direct-
support equipment for maintenance and aircrew personnel.

Go. The stage at which an individual has gained enough skill, knowledge, and experience to
perform the tasks without supervision.

                                              3
Initial Skills Training. A formal school course that results in an AFSC 3-skill level award
for enlisted or mandatory training for upgrade to qualified officers.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly, but flexible process
for planning, developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures
personnel are taught in a cost efficient way the knowledge, skills, and attitudes essential for
successful job performance.

JOPES. The Joint Operations Planning and Execution System is the system used by all
services (Army, Navy, Air Force) to plan for and execute deployments. It allows combatant
commanders to state what functional capabilities they require (fighter planes, airborne
infantry, etc.) and the services to provide those capabilities. It also provides TRANSCOM
with a tool to move the forces to the required locations.

MAJCOM Functional Managers (MFMs). Manager for all matters related to the training
and utilization of individuals within a particular MAJCOM and AFSC.
Military Personnel Data System (MilPDS). The Air Force‟s Oracle based personnel data
system used to manage personnel, create reports and maintain historical data of a member‟s
career.

Military Personnel Element (MPE). A designated organization at base-level designed,
staffed, and operated to support the host commander‟s mission by providing personnel
services.

 No Go—Trainee has not gained enough skill, knowledge, and experience to perform task without
supervision.

Occupational Analysis (OA). Collecting and analyzing factual data on the tasks and/or
knowledge„s performed by Air Force career fields. This data is used to provide personnel and
training decision-makers with factual and objective job information which enables them to justify
and/or change personnel utilization policies and programs, refine and maintain occupational
structures, and establish, validate, and adjust testing and training programs.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, “over-the-shoulder” training conducted to certify
personnel in both upgrade (skill level award) and job qualification (position certification training).

Oracle Training Administration (OTA). A HQ AFPC/DPSIT managed computer
support system that links Air Force units or activities, which use the system for planning,
controlling, and funding formal training throughout the Air Force, including the
MAJCOM TDY-to-School Program.

Personnel Processing Application (PPA). A web-based application allowing a customer
to gain insight, request services and obtain approval of their request.

Personnel Service Delivery (PSD). AF/A1 four step vision of transforming personnel
services to streamline operations, centralize services and gain efficiencies through the use of
technology. Phase 1 - Centralization, Phase II - DIMHRS, Phase III - Enhanced web-based
support, Phase IV - consolidation of contact centers.

Position Qualification Training. Training designed to qualify an airman in a specific
position that occurs after upgrade training.

                                                4
Qualification Training (QT). Hands-on performance training designed to qualify an
airman in a specific position. This training occurs both during and after upgrade training to
maintain up-to-date qualifications.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional package designed for use at the
unit to qualify, or aid qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of equipment. It
may be printed, computer-based, or in other audiovisual media. Refer to section C of this
CFETP for available training packages and courses.

Satellite Personnel Activity (S PA). An extension organization of a Military Personnel
Flight, usually consisting of 2 - 7 people, that services smaller military installations that
are segregated by a significant distance from the host base.

Specialty Training. The total training process used to qualify airmen in their assigned
specialty.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force
specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge that an airman in that specialty may be expected to
perform or to know on the job. Also identifies the training provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, or 7-
skill level within an enlisted AFS. It further serves as a contract between AETC and the
functional user to show which of the overall training requirements for an Air Force Specialty
Code (AFSC) are taught in formal schools and correspondence courses.
Task Certifier. See Certification Official.

Task Module (TM). A group of tasks performed within an Air Force specialty that are
performed together and that require common knowledge, skills, and abilities. TMs are
identified by an identification code and a statement.
Task Qualification Training (TQT): Training conducted after Nuclear, Biological,
Chemical and Conventional (NBCC) defense classroom training in which individuals perform
wartime mission essential tasks in a simulated wartime environment while wearing full
ground crew individual protective equipment (IPE) or aircrew IPE. HAF, MAJCOM and local
functional area managers (FAMs) identify wartime mission essential tasks. See AFI 10-2501
and AFMAN 10-2602 for additional information/ requirements.

Total Force. All collective Air Force components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian
elements) of the United States Air Force.

Trainer. A trained and qualified person who teaches personnel to perform specific tasks
through OJT methods. Also, equipment that the trainer uses to teach per sonnel specified
tasks.

Training Capability. The ability of a unit or base to provide training. Authorities consider
the availability of equipment, qualified trainers, study reference materials, and so on in
determining a unit's training capability.

Training Planning Team (TPT). Comprised of the same personnel as a U&TW, however
TPTs are more intimately involved in training development and the range of issues are greater
than is normal in the U&TW forum.
Training Session. Training conducted based on technical data for a task that existing courses
cannot support.


                                                 5
Upgrade Training (UGT). Mandatory training which leads to the attainment of a higher
level of proficiency.

Unit Personnel Record Group (UPRG). A hardcopy file of important personnel
documents relevant to an Air Force member at base -level, usually created and stored at a
Military Personnel Flight.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum of MAJCOM Air Force
Specialty Code (AFSC) functional managers, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC
training personnel that determines career ladder training requirements.

Virtual Military Personnel Flight (vMPF). The starting point for customers to access
their personnel records, make decisions about their career options and submit requests.

Virtual Personnel Center Guard and Reserve (vPCGR). This secure web site enables
members of the Air Reserve Component access to many personnel services from anywhere
with internet access, 24-hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year. vPCGR is provided
by the Air Reserve Personnel Center in Denver, Colorado.




                                           6
Section A - General Information

1. Purpose. This CFETP provides the information necessary for Air Force Career Field
Manager (AFCFM), MAJCOM Functional Managers (MFM), commanders, training managers,
supervisors and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective and efficient career
field training program. The plan outlines the training that individuals in this AFS should receive
in order to develop and progress throughout their career. This plan identifies initial skills,
upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency training. Initial skills training is the AFS
specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon retraining into this
specialty for award of the 3-skill level. Normally, this training is conducted by AETC at one of
the technical training centers. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task
qualification requirements, and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the
3-, 5-, 7-, or 9-skill level. Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training
designed to qualify an airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both
during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills
and knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training is formal specialty training used for
selected airmen. Proficiency training is additional training, either in-residence, exportable
advanced training courses, or on-the-job training provided to personnel to increase their skills
and knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade. The purpose of the CFETP includes:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field
training program. It is also used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate
points in an individual's career.

1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in this specialty
and recommends education and training throughout each phase of an individual's career.

1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and the
training delivery method.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired
career field training program.

2. Use of the CFETP. The plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to
ensure comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in
the specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop or revise formal resident and non -resident, field
and exportable training based on requirements established by the users and documented in
Part II of the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition
strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial,
upgrade, and proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, contract training, or
exportable courseware can satisfy identified requirements. MAJCOM developed train ing to
support this AFS must be identified for inclusion in this plan.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this
plan. The lists of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.




                                                7
3. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP. The AFCFM is the approval authority.
Also, the AFCFM will initiate an annual review of this document to ensure currency and
accuracy. MAJCOM representatives and AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate
on the career field training requirements. Using the list of courses in Part II, they will eliminate
duplicate training.

Section B - Career Progression and Information

4. Specialty Descriptions.

4.1. Specialty Summary. Supervises and performs personnel activities and functions, including
personnel action requests; source documents; unit, field, and master personnel records; and
Commander‟s Support Staff (CSS) tasks. Interviews and classifies airmen and officers. Advises
on career progression. Updates military personnel data system (PDS) records. Manages Air
Force retention programs, assists military personnel in making career decisions, and advises on
benefit programs. Ensures compliance with personnel policies, directives, and procedures.
Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 153100.

4.2. Duties and Responsibilities.

4.2.1. Duty. Advises officers and airmen on military personnel issues and programs. Conducts
interviews to determine individual interests, qualifications, and personnel data. Briefs provisions
of personnel programs such as assignments, promotions, separations, retirements, benefit
programs, retention, bonus, classification, training and retraining, and personnel reliability
program, and career progression. Helps commanders develop career information and motivation
programs. Manages selective reenlistment and career airman reenlistment reservation programs.
Counsels airmen on reenlistment opportunities and benefits. Monitors retention programs and
provides reports and statistics. Helps users determine training requirements, methods, and
procedures.

4.2.2. Creates, maintains, and audits personnel records. Records information in unit, field, and
PDS records. Prepares and maintains personnel records, aeronautical orders, and personnel
action requests. Prepares and processes documentation for administration of quality control
programs. Reviews personnel records, and interviews individuals to ensure accuracy of
information. Compares basic records with source documents, transaction registers, and
management products. Inspects records, master personnel, and command and field personnel
records. Reviews and processes evaluation reports.

4.2.3. Performs personnel actions. Updates computerized personnel data. Conducts in and out
processing. Manages the Virtual Out Processing vOP in the Military Personnel Flight. Monitors
personnel readiness programs. Schedules individuals for processing personnel actions such as
reenlistment, promotion, separation, retirement, or reassignment. Administers standard tests,
acts as test monitor, scores tests, and records results. Prepares and processes correspondence,
forms, and PDS transactions. Advises members on official and personal obligations incident to
relocation, training, and promotion. Prepares and processes relocation actions. Processes
documents required to support service awards and decorations. Guides customers in completing
the vRED (automated DD Form 93) in vMPF (virtual MPF). Maintains files of correspondence,
directives, instructions, and other publications.

                                                 8
4.2.4. Provides casualty assistance. Administers casualty program. Prepares related reports and
documents. Assists next of kin of deceased and missing personnel to apply for death gratuity
pay, arrears of pay, veterans‟ affairs, social security, government and commercial life insurance,
and other benefits.

4.2.5. Oversees personnel activities and functions. Inspects personnel activities for compliance
with policies and directives. Reports discrepancies and recommends corrective action. Monitors
personnel actions for timeliness, propriety, and accuracy. Ensures proper counseling of
individuals on personnel programs, procedures, and benefits. Organizes and compiles
management data and submits reports.

4.2.6. Performs CSS personnel functions. Prepares and processes administrative support actions
relating to unit programs such as FIT Program, vOP, inprocessing, squadron information, and
enlisted and officer professional military education. Manages leave web program. Maintains
suspense system for personnel actions and correspondence. Maintains and monitors duty status
changes. Provides customers with guidance on how to use the web applications for the personnel
actions. Requisitions and maintains current study reference material for the airman promotion
system. Assigns members to an AEF. Prepares and processes Articles 15, letters of reprimand,
investigation reports, unfavorable information files, and separation actions.

4.2.7. Performs Personnel Support for Contingency Operations (PERSCO) functions.

5. Specialty Qualifications. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice
to the superintendent level play an important role in the Air Force‟s ability to accomplish its
mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training do his or her part to plan, manage,
and conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP
will ensure each individual receives viable training at appropriate points in their career.

6. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a Life Cycle approach to encompass the entire
spectrum of training requirements for the Personnel career field. The spectrum inc ludes a
strategy for when, where, and how to meet the training requirements. The strategy must be
apparent and affordable to reduce duplication of training and eliminate a disjointed
approach to training. Training decisions were made at the Specialty Tra ining Requirements
Team (STRT)/Utilization &Training Workshop (U&TW) on 6 December 2010.

6.1. Initial Skills. The initial skills course was revised to provide training needed to prepare
graduates for personnel positions with an introduction on the deployed mission.

6.2. Five-Skill Level. The Personnel Career Development Course (CDC) reinforces and
expands on the initial skills taught in the apprentice course, while working on-the-job.

6.3. Seven-Skill Level. The Personnel Career Development Course (CDC) expands on the
individual‟s working knowledge in the Personnel Career Field.

6.4. Proficiency. This training provides qualification standards for award of the 3S0 AFSC and
consists of completing all identified core tasks for the assigned duty position. Additional
qualification training (QT) becomes necessary when personnel transfer to another duty position,
the unit mission changes, a new personnel program comes on board, or any time any techniques,
procedures, or a need for increased productivity occurs.

                                                 9
7. Community College of the Air Force. Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon completion of
basic military training. CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate in Applied
Sciences Degree. Visit the CCAF website for the current catalog and degree requirements
http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/. In addition to its associate‟s degree program, CCAF offers the
following:

7.1. Occupational Instructor Certification. Upon completion of instructor qualification training,
consisting of the instructor methods course and supervised practice teaching, CCAF instructors
who possess an associate‟s degree or higher may be nominated by their school commander or
commandant for certification as an occupational instructor. Visit the CCAF website for current
certification requirements. http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/.

7.2. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill
certification is awarded for the primary occupational specialty. The College uses a competency-
based assessment process for trade skill certification at one of four proficiency levels:
Apprentice, Journeyman, Craftsman (Supervisor), or Master Craftsman (Manager). All are
transcribed on the CCAF transcript.

7.3. Degree Requirements. Visit the CCAF website for the current catalog and degree
requirements http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/

7.4. Instructor Educational Requirements. Individuals desiring to become an Air Education and
Training Command Instructor should be actively pursuing an associate degree. A degreed
faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges and
Schools. Air Force and other service members currently assigned to a CCAF-affiliated course
are eligible for the Instructor of Technology and Military Science (ITMS) degree program.
Individuals desiring to pursue the Instructor of Technology & Military Science (ITMS) degree
program can obtain further information through the CCAF website and catalog at
http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf.

7.5. Off Duty Education. The AFCFM strongly encourages as a minimum a CCAF
degree for all Personnelists. Promotion statistics bear out the weight of college degrees
when competing for promotion to SMSgt and CMSgt.
8. Professional Affiliations and Fraternal Organizations. The Air Force recognizes the
importance and supports associations with professional organizations and membership in
fraternal organizations as a vital tool in your continuing education and professional development.
Such affiliations and membership offer opportunities for tangible benefits in the areas of
leadership, networking, team-building, and communication, community service, and most of all,
career enhancement.




                                               10
 9. Career Field Path.
 9.1. Manpower Table.




            PERSONNEL GRADE DISTRIBUTIONS (A/O September 2010)

        TOTAL     CMS      SMS       MSG   TSG   SSG    SRA      A1C/AMN/AB


FY10     4217       81         155   608   955   1624   561         231
FY11     5174       80         149   612   964   1603   544         222


 9.2. Sample Career Pyramid.




                                      11
9.3. Enlisted Career Path

                                                   Grade Requirements
Education and Training Requirements                Rank     Average                Earliest         High Year
                                                            Sew-On                 Sew-On           Of Tenure
Basic Military Training School
Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)        Amn           6 months
                                                   A1C           16 months
Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level)              Amn           6 months
- Minimum 12 months OJT                            A1C           16 months
- Minimum 9 months OJT for retrainees              SrA           3 years           28 months        10 years
- Complete all 5-level core tasks
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when available
Airman Leadership School (ALS)                     Trainer
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service     -Trained and qualified to perform the task to be trained
  or be a SSgt Selectee.                           -Must attend the Air Force Training Course (AFTC)
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt   Certifier
                                                   -Minimum rank of SSgt with a 5-skill level, or civilian
  sew-on (Active Duty Only).
                                                   equivalent, capable of evaluating the task being certified,
                                                   and have completed the AFTC.
Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)               SSgt          4.9 years         3 years          20 years
- Minimum rank of SSgt
- Minimum 12 Months OJT
- Minimum 6 Months OJT for retrainees
- Complete all 5- and 7-level core tasks
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when available
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)             TSgt          10.3 years        5 years          22 years
- Must be a TSgt, MSgt Selectee, or MSgt           MSgt          16.4 years        8 years          24 years
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt
  sew-on (Active Duty Only)
Upgrade to Superintendent (9-Skill Level)          SMSgt         20.4 years        11 years         26 years
- Minimum rank of SMSgt

USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)
- Must be a MSgt, SMSgt, or SMSgt Selectee
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
  SMSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only)
Chief Enlisted Manger (CEM)                        CMSgt         23.9 years        14 years         30 years




                                                          12
Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements

10. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in
terms of tasks and knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty
qualification requirements for each skill level in broad, general terms and establishes
the mandatory requirements for entry, award, and retention of each skill level. The
specific task and knowledge training requirements are identified in the Specialty
Training Standard (STS) at Part II, Sections A and B of this CFETP.
11. Specialty Qualifications:
11.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: officer and airman classification
systems and procedures; preparing and maintaining personnel records; assignment,
promotion, testing, customer service, quality force, personnel readiness, PERSCO
and deployment/mobilization procedures; interviewing and counseling techniques;
policies and procedures relating to administrative communications, correspondence,
messages, and general office management; overall organizational structure and its
interrelationship with the mission; terminology and procedures employed within
functional areas assigned; policies, programs, and procedures of agencies
administering and providing benefits to military personnel, retirees, and family
members; PDS capabilities and applications; occupat ional survey procedures; benefit
programs; and principles, policies, and concepts of personnel management.

11.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school with courses in
English composition and speech is desirable.

11.3. Training. For award of AFSC 3S031, completion of a basic personnel course is
mandatory.

11.4. Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of the AFSC
indicated:

11.4.1. 3S051. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3S031. Also, experience in
functions such as maintaining personnel records, counseling, or classification and
assignments.

11.4.2. 3S071. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3S051. Also, experience
performing or supervising one or more of the functions associated with preparing and
maintaining PDS and manual records, personnel classification or usage, quality force
management, auditing personnel records and reports, or career progression counseling.

11.5. Other. For entry into this specialty the following are mandatory as indicated:

11.5.1. Ability to speak distinctly.

11.5.2. See AFECD attachment 4 for additional entry requirements. It can be found on
the AFPC web site under military classification.




                                           13
11.5.3. For award of AFSC 3S031, ability to operate a keyboard at a minimum rate of 25
words per minute (wpm).

11.5.4. For award and retention of AFSCs 3S051/71/91/00, must maintain an Air Force
Network License according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network Users and
Certifying Network Professionals.

11.6. Apprentice Level Training.

11.6.1. Training Sources and Resources. Completion of the Personnel Apprentice
course at Keesler AFB MS satisfies the knowledge and training resource
requirements for award of the 3-skill level.
11.6.2. Implementation. Entry into training is accomplished via new accessions or
by approved retraining from any eligible AFSC. If entry is by retraining, the
applicant must be a SrA or higher, have no courts -martial convictions, the last three
(3) EPRs ratings must total 9 or higher. Air Force Basic Personnel Badge is eligible
for wear after completing Technical School
11.7. Journeyman Level Training.

11.7.1. Training Sources and Resources. Completion of the 3S051 CDC along with
supervisor certification on duty position and core task training requirements
represents the resources needed for award of the 5 -skill level.

11.7.2. Implementation. Personnel will enter 5-level UGT after successful
completion of the apprentice course and upon arrival of their first permanent d uty
station.
11.8. Craftsman Level Training.

11.8.1. Training Sources and Resources. Prior to the 7-skill level CDCs being
available, the 7-skill level is awarded when the timeline, core tasks and at the supervisor's
discretion determines the Airman has met all of the criteria to award the 7-skill level.
Completion of the 3S071 CDC along with supervisor certification of required duty
position training represent the resources required for award of the 7-skill level.
11.8.2. Implementation. For SSgt selectees, 7-level upgrade training should
commence upon selection. The Air Force Senior Badge is eligible for wear after the
award of the 7-skill level. The Master Personnel Badge is eligible for wear by
Master Sergeant or above with 5 years in the sp ecialty from award of the 7-skill
level. Exception: Chief Master Sergeants crossflowed into a new CEM Code wear
the Basic Badge of their new career field upon award of the CEM Code, the Senior
Badge after 12 months, and the Master Badge after 5 years

11.9. Superintendent Level Training.

11.9.1. Training Sources and Resources. None.

11.9.2. Implementation. None.



                                             14
Section D - Resource Constraints
12. There are currently no resource constraints. This area is reserved. .

Section E - Transitional Training Guide
13. There are currently no transitional training requirements. This area is reserved.




                                          15
Part II

Section A – Specialty Training Standard

1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC for
Apprentice classes beginning 111003 and graduating 111108.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:

2.1. Lists in the column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most
common tasks, knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for airmen to
perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level. Column 2 (Core Tasks) identifies, by
asterisk (*), specialty-wide training requirements. All personnel are required to train
on STS items 2.2.1., word processing, and 2.2.5., email, in MOP4 conditions every 20
months to comply with AFI 10-2501. The supervisor is the evaluator.

2.2. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of task and
knowledge training requirements. Use automated training management systems to
document technician qualifications, if available. Task certification must show a
certification or completed date. (As a minimum, use the following column designators:
Training Complete, Certifier Initials)

2.3. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows
the proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the
task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course.

2.4. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to
indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career
development courses.

2.5. Becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job training when placed in
AF Form 623, Individual Training Record, and used according to AFI 36-2201. When
used as a JQS, the following requirements apply:

2.5.1. Documentation. Using the master task list (MTL), identify all duty position
requirements, including those core tasks associated with the current duty position as
directed by the AFCFM or MFM, by circling the sub-paragraph number next to the task
statement. As a minimum, complete the following columns in Part II of the CFETP:
training start date (day, month, year), training complete date (day, month, year), trainee
initials (upon completion of training), trainer initials (upon completion of training) and
Certifier initials when required by AFCFM (for tasks requiring third-party certification).
An AFJQS may be used in lieu of Part II of the CFETP only upon approval of the
AFCFM.
Note: The AFCFM may supplement these minimum documentation procedures as
needed or deemed necessary for his/her career field.
Note: All entries on documents contained in or on the AF Form 623, to include the
CFETP, AFJQS, AF Form 797, AF Form 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring

                                            16
Training, AF Form 803, and any additional training documents as determined by local
requirements, will be documented in pencil, unless forms are automated and tracked in an
approved electronic system. Entries on forms that are not subject to change, such as the
front cover of the AF Form 623, signatures and AF Form 623a entries will be made in
black or blue ink. However, if these publications/forms make up an automated training
documentation package, pencil entries are not required.
Note: Training on all applicable core tasks is still required for upgrade unless otherwise
stated by the AFCFM. Deviations in documentation of the MTL may be necessary when
using electronic records as long as all required tasked are recorded on the document.

2.5.1.1. Transcribing. Transcribing documentation to a new CFETP is an administrative
function, not a re-evaluation of training. Therefore, supervisor and trainer are considered
synonymous for the purpose of documentation. Transcribe within 120 days (240 days for
ARC) of CFETP revision date or from date revision is posted to automated training
records system. Upon publication of a new CFETP, use the following procedures to
transcribe:

2.5.1.1.1. Use the new CFETP to identify past and current training requirements and to
transcribe qualifications from the previous CFETP.

2.5.1.1.2. For tasks previously qualified/certified and required in the current duty
position, circle the subparagraph number next to the task statement and enter the current
date in the completion column. Trainee initials in the trainee column and the current task
certifier or supervisor/trainer initials in the trainer column.

2.5.1.1.3. For tasks previously certified but not required in the current duty position (do
not circle), transcribe only the previous certification date (no initials). If the task later
becomes required in the duty position, recertify using current dates and initials.

2.5.1.1.4. Annotate the AF Form 623a or automated version, (for example, “I certify the
information contained in the CFETP dated XX was transcribed to the CFETP dated XX,
and the trainee was given the superseded CFETP.” Signed and dated by supervisor and
trainee).

2.5.1.2. Knowledge training. Knowledge training is required if no CDC is available for
the AFS or training must be documented for a CDC waiver. Define and develop, if
necessary, evaluation criteria for career knowledge items to ensure comprehension.
Document knowledge training IAW paragraph 2.5.1.
Note: Career knowledge must be documented prior to submitting a CDC waiver.

2.5.1.3. Decertification and Recertification. When a supervisor determines an Airman is
unqualified on a task previously certified for their duty position, the supervisor erases the
previous certification, or deletes certification when using automated system. Appropriate
remarks pertaining to the reason for decertification are entered on the AF Form 623a or
automated version. Begin recertification (if required) following procedures in paragraph
2.5.1.


                                              17
2.5.2. Performance Standard. Tasks are trained and qualified to the “Go” level. “Go”
means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets local demands
for accuracy, timeliness, and correct use of procedures (“Go” level equates to 3c in the
STS proficiency code key).

2.6. Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman
Promotion System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the
AETC Airman Advancement Division, by senior NCOs with extensive practical
experience in their career fields. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas
judged by test development team members as most appropriate for promotion to higher
grades. Questions are based upon study references listed in the WAPS catalog.
Individual responsibilities are in Chapter 1 of AFI 36-2605, Air Force Military Personnel
Testing System. WAPS is not applicable to the ANG.

3. Recommendations. Comments and recommendations are invited concerning the
quality of AETC training. A Customer Service Information Line (CSIL) has been
installed for supervisors‟ convenience. For a quick response to concerns, call our CISL at
DSN 597-4566, or fax us at Fax number is DSN 597-3790, or e-mail us at 81trg-
tget@keesler.af.mil. Reference specific paragraphs or areas of concern (paragraph,
training standard element, etc.).


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




                                             DARRELL D. JONES
                                             Lieutenant General, USAF
                                             Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower & Personnel

OFFICIAL

1 Atch
Qualitative Requirements




                                            18
                                                                       Attachment 1

            THIS BLOCK IS FOR IDENTIFICATION PURPOSES ONLY
                                                                    NAME OF TRAINEE
PRINTED NAME (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                            INITIALS (Written)                         SSAN (last 4)


                               PRINTED NAME OF SUPERVISOR/TRAINER AND WRITTEN INITIALS

N/I                                                                                   N/I

N/I                                                                                   N/I

N/I                                                                                   N/I

N/I                                                                                   N/I

N/I                                                                                   N/I

N/I                                                                                   N/I


                                                       QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   PROFICIENCY CODE KEY

                                  SCALE              DEFINITION: The individual
                                  VALUE
       TASK                           1              Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (EXTREMELY
   PERFORMANCE                                       LIMITED)
      LEVELS
                                      2              Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (PARTIALLY PROFICIENT)

                                      3              Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (COMPETENT)

                                      4              Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task. (HIGHLY
                                                     PROFICIENT)
         TASK                         a              Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (NOMENCLATURE)
      KNOWLEDGE
        LEVELS
                                      b              Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (PROCEDURES)

                                      c              Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed. (OPERATING
                                                     PRINCIPLES)

                                      d              Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (ADVANCED THEORY)
       SUBJECT                        A              Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (FACTS)
      KNOWLEDGE
        LEVELS
                                      B              Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (PRINCIPLES)

                                      C              Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (ANALYSIS)

                                      D              Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (EVALUATION)

                                                                         EXPLANATIONS

 * A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a spec ific task. (Examples: b and
1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a subject common to
several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

X This mark is used alone in course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.




                                                                          19
                                                                Attachment 1

                   NOTE 1: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code in column 4A(1) are trained
                   during war time.
                   NOTE 2: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) are the core task/knowledge . All personnel are
                   required to train on STS items 2 .1., word processing, and 2.4., email, in MOP4 conditions every 20
                   months to comply with AFI 10 -2501. The supervisor is the evaluator.

                                                          3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                        4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                          INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                          PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                           A          B      C          D         E            A            B            C
                                                  2.                                                         3 SKILL      5 SKILL      7 SKILL
  REFERENCES                                      CORE                                                       LEVEL        LEVEL        LEVEL
                                                  TASKS
                                                                                                 CERT.     (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                          START    COMP    TRAINEE    TRAINER    OFFICI   Course   CDC    Course   CDC    Course   CDC
                                                          DATE     DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    AL


1. PERSONNEL CAREER FIELD
1.1.     Personnel Community
         TR: AFCSM 36-699 Vol. 1 & 6
1.1.1.      Mission
1.1.1.1.    Joint
                                                                                                            -       -       -      A        -       -
            TR: JP 1-02
1.1.1.2.    Air Staff

1.1.1.2.1. Personnel policy implementation                                                                  -       -       -       -       -      B

1.1.1.2.2. Personnel program implementation                                                                 -       -       -       -              B

1.1.1.3.    MAJCOM                                                                                         A        -       -       -       -      B

1.1.1.4.    AFPC

1.1.1.4.1. Personnel policy development                                                                     -       -       -       -       -      B

1.1.1.4.2. Personnel program development                                                                    -       -       -       -       -      B
1.1.1.5.    AFRC
                                                                                                            -       -       -       -       -      B

1.1.1.6.    ANG                                                                                             -               -       -       -      B

1.1.1.7.    Base                                                                                           A        -       -      B        -       -
1.1.1.8.    Force support squadron
                                                                                                           A        -       -      B        -      B
            TR: Program Action Directive (PDD)
1.1.2.     Personnel organization structure                                                                A        -       -      B        -       -

1.1.3.     Functional responsibilities

1.1.3.1.    Total force service center                                                                     A        -       -      B        -       -

1.1.3.2.    Military personnel section                                                                     A        -       -      B        -       -

1.1.3.3.    Commander‟s support staff                                                                      A        -       -      B        -       -

1.1.3.4.    Personnel activities (SPAs, GSUs)                                                              A        -       -      B        -       -




                                                                  20
                                                            Attachment 1

                                                       3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                        4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                       INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                       PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                       A           B      C          D         E            A            B            C
                                               2.                                                         3 SKILL      5 SKILL      7 SKILL
  REFERENCES                                   CORE                                                       LEVEL        LEVEL        LEVEL
                                               TASKS
                                                                                              CERT.     (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                       START    COMP    TRAINEE    TRAINER    OFFICI   Course   CDC    Course   CDC    Course   CDC
                                                       DATE     DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    AL

1.1.4. Wartime functional responsibilities
       TR: AFI 36-3802; JP 1-02                *                                                        A        -       -      A        -      B
       AFI 10-401; AFI 10-403; AFI 10-402

1.2. Structure of the Personnel Career Field
     TR: AFI 36-2101 Chapter 1, AFECD

1.2.1. Personnel apprentice

1.2.1.1.   Duties                                                                                       A        -       -       -       -       -

1.2.1.2.   Responsibilities                                                                             A        -       -       -       -       -

1.2.2. Personnel journeyman

1.2.2.1.   Duties                                                                                       A        -       -      B        -       -

1.2.2.2.   Responsibilities                                                                             A        -       -      B        -       -

1.2.3. Personnel craftsman

1.2.3.1.   Duties                                                                                       A        -       -       -       -      B

1.2.3.2.   Responsibilities                                                                             A        -       -       -       -      B

1.2.4. Superintendent

1.2.4.1.   Duties                                                                                       A        -       -       -       -      B

1.2.4.2.   Responsibilities                                                                             A        -       -       -       -      B

2. OPERATE PERSONAL COMPUTER
   SOFTWARE
   TR: Vendor provided documentation

2.1.   Word processing                                                                                   -       -       -       -       -       -

2.2.   Spreadsheet                                                                                       -       -       -       -       -       -

2.3.   Presentation graphics                                                                             -       -       -       -       -       -

2.4.   E-Mail                                                                                            -       -       -       -       -       -

3. PERSONNEL COMMUNICATION
   MANAGEMENT

3.1.   Prepare official memorandum
       TR: AFMAN 33-326; AFH 33-337;                                                                     b       -       -       -       -       -
       Tongue and Quill




                                                               21
                                                            Attachment 1

                                                       3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                        4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                       INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                       PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                       A           B      C          D         E            A            B            C
                                               2.                                                         3 SKILL      5 SKILL      7 SKILL
  REFERENCES                                   CORE                                                       LEVEL        LEVEL        LEVEL
                                               TASKS
                                                                                              CERT.     (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                       START    COMP    TRAINEE    TRAINER    OFFICI   Course   CDC    Course   CDC    Course   CDC
                                                       DATE     DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    AL


3.2.   Correspondence Management
       TR: AFH 33-337

3.2.1. Applying document security
       TR: AFI 31-401; DoD 5200.1-R

3.2.1.1. Protecting/safeguarding classified
         material                              *                                                         a       -       -       b       -       b


3.2.1.2.   Transporting classified and OPSEC
           COMSEC material
                                               *                                                         a       -       -       b       -       b



3.2.2. Organizational workflow                                                                          A        -       -       -       -       -

3.3.   Use Publications
                                                                                                         -       -       -       -       -       -
       TR: AFI 33-360 Vol. 1, Chap 7
3.4.   Use Forms
                                                                                                         -       -       -       -       -       -
       TR: AFI 33-360 VOL. 2
3.5.   Communications
       TR: AFPAM 36-2241 Vol. 1; AFH 33-337
3.5.1. Customer service techniques                                                                       -       -       -       -       -      B

3.5.2. Use customer service techniques                                                                   b       -       -       b       -       -

3.5.3. Communication etiquette                                                                           -       -       -      B        -      B

3.5.4. Use communication etiquette                                                                       b       -       -       -       -       -

3.5.5. Conduct interviews                                                                                b       -       -       -       -       -

3.5.6. Prepare briefings                                                                                2b       -       -       -       -       -

3.5.7. Conduct briefings                                                                                2b       -       -       -       -       -
3.6.   Manipulate the case management system
       (CMS)                                                                                             b       -       -       b       -       b
       TR: CMS Users guide
4. MILITARY PERSONNEL DATA SYSTEM
   (MILPDS)
   TR: AFCSM 36-699, Vol. 1
4.1.   Accomplishing DJMS Actions
       TR: Chapter 5 and 8                     *                                                        A        -       -      B        -      B

4.2.   Use Transaction Registers               *                                                        2b       -       -       -       -       -

4.3.   Using Transaction Registers                                                                       -       -       -      B        -      B
4.4.   Management Assessment Products (MAPS)
                                               *                                                        A        -       -      B        -      B



                                                               22
                                                             Attachment 1

                                                        3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                        4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                        INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                        PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                        A           B      C          D         E            A            B            C
                                                2.                                                         3 SKILL      5 SKILL      7 SKILL
  REFERENCES                                    CORE                                                       LEVEL        LEVEL        LEVEL
                                                TASKS
                                                                                               CERT.     (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                        START    COMP    TRAINEE    TRAINER    OFFICI   Course   CDC    Course   CDC    Course   CDC
                                                        DATE     DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    AL


4.5.   LOGON                                    *                                                        2b       -       -       -       -       -

4.6.   Navigate                                 *                                                        2b       -       -       -       -       -

4.7.   Folders

4.7.1. Modify                                   *                                                        2b       -       -       b       -       -

4.7.2. Save                                     *                                                        2b       -       -       b       -       -

4.8. Execute Queries

4.8.1. Group                                    *                                                        2b       -       -       b       -       -

4.8.2. Individual                               *                                                        2b       -       -       b       -       -

4.9. Export data                                *                                                        2b       -       -       b       -       -

4.10. Perform updates                           *                                                        2b       -       -       b       -       -

4.11. Use help screens                          *                                                        2b       -       -       b       -       -

4.12. Request

4.12.1.   Briefs                                *                                                        2b       -       -       -       -       -

4.12.2.   RIPS                                  *                                                        2b       -       -       -       -       -

4.12.3.   SURFS                                 *                                                        2b       -       -       -       -       -

4.13. Request Reports                           *                                                        2b       -       -       -       -       -
4.14. Local Data Item
                                                                                                         A        -       -      B        -       -

4.15. Batch Processing                                                                                   A        -       -       -       -       -
4.16. Assignment Date Tracking
                                                                                                          -       -       -      B               B
      TR: Chapter 10
5.     FUNDAMENTALS

5.1 Navigate AFPC Secure                                                                                  b       -       -       -       -       -
5.2 Navigate AF Portal
                                                                                                          b       -       -       -       -       -

5.3 dMPF (Deployed Military Personnel Flight)                                                            A        -       -      B        -      B
5.4 Base Level Service Delivery Model
    (BLSDM)                                                                                              A        -       -       -       -       -
    TR: BLSDM CONOPS; PSD Guide




                                                                23
                                                                     Attachment 1

                                                                3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                        4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                                INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                A           B      C          D         E            A            B            C
                                                        2.                                                         3 SKILL      5 SKILL      7 SKILL
  REFERENCES                                            CORE                                                       LEVEL        LEVEL        LEVEL
                                                        TASKS
                                                                                                       CERT.     (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                START    COMP    TRAINEE    TRAINER    OFFICI   Course   CDC    Course   CDC    Course   CDC
                                                                DATE     DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    AL

5.5.   Privacy Act
       TR: AFI 33-332;
       http://defenselink.dtic.mil/privacy/notices/us
                                                        *                                                        B        -       -      B        -       -
       af
5.6.   Personnel E-records Management
                                                                                                                 B        -       -      B        -       -
       TR: AFI 36-2608
5.7.   In-house Training
                                                                                                                  -       -       -      A        -      B
       TR: AFI 36-2201; PSD Guide
5.8.   Data Compatibility

5.8.1. Assignment availability
       TR: AFI 36-2110; Stabilized tour guide
5.8.1.1.   Codes                                        *                                                        B        -       -      B        -       -

5.8.1.2.   Dates                                        *                                                        B        -       -      B        -       -
5.8.2. Assignment limitation
       TR: AFI 36-2110; Stabilized tour guide
5.8.2.1.   Codes                                        *                                                        B        -       -      B        -       -

5.8.2.2.   Dates                                        *                                                        B        -       -      B        -       -
5.8.3. Promotion eligibility status codes               *                                                        B        -       -      B        -       -
       TR: AFI 36-2502
5.8.4. Reenlistment codes                               *                                                        B        -       -      B        -       -
       TR: AFI 36-2606
5.8.5. Unfavorable information file codes               *                                                        B        -       -      B        -       -
       TR: AFI 36-2907
5.8.6. Deployment Availability Code                     *                                                        B        -       -      B        -       -
       TR: AFI 10-403
5.8.7. Relationship of quality force indicators         *                                                        B        -       -      B        -      B
5.8.8. Suspense management
                                                                                                                  -       -       -      B        -      B
6. CONTINGENCY SUPPORT
    TR: AFI 36-3802; AFI 10-401; AFI 10-402;
    AFI 10-403; AFH 10-416; JP 1-02;
    AFI 36-3803 AFCSM 10-626 Vol. 2
6.1. Force Concepts


6.1.1. Joint force concepts                                                                                      A        -       -      B        -      B

6.1.2. Total force concepts                             *                                                        A        -       -      B        -      B
6.2.   AEF Concepts


6.2.1. AEF purpose                                                                                               A        -       -      B        -       -

6.2.2. UTC




                                                                        24
                                                                 Attachment 1

                                                            3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                        4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                            INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                            PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                            A           B      C          D         E            A            B            C
                                                    2.                                                         3 SKILL      5 SKILL      7 SKILL
  REFERENCES                                        CORE                                                       LEVEL        LEVEL        LEVEL
                                                    TASKS
                                                                                                   CERT.     (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                            START    COMP    TRAINEE    TRAINER    OFFICI   Course   CDC    Course   CDC    Course   CDC
                                                            DATE     DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    AL


6.2.2.1.    Posturing                                                                                        A        -       -      B        -      B

6.2.2.2.    Coding                                                                                           A        -       -      B        -      B

6.2.3.     AEF association                                                                                    -       -       -       -       -      B

6.2.4.     Update AEF association                                                                            2b       -       -       b       -       -
6.3.     Air Reserve Component (ARC)
         Mobilization Planning
         TR: AFI 10-402; AFH 10-416;
         AFI 36-2619
6.3.1. Mobilization                                                                                          B        -       -      B        -      B

6.3.2. Demobilization                                                                                        B        -       -      B        -      B

6.3.3. Integration                                                                                           B        -       -      B        -      B

6.3.4. Man days                                                                                              B        -       -      B        -      B

6.4.     Military Operations Planning Process
         TR: AFI 10-403; AFI 10-401

6.4.1. Readiness terminology                                                                                 A        -       -      B        -       -

6.4.2. War and mobilization plan (WMP)                                                                       A        -       -      B        -       -

6.4.3. Operation plan (OPLAN)                                                                                A        -       -      B        -       -

6.4.4. Personnel annex                              *                                                        A        -       -      B        -      B

6.4.5. CONOPS                                       *                                                        A        -       -      B        -      B

6.4.6. Other OPLAN annexes                                                                                   A        -       -      B        -       -
6.5.     Readiness Systems
         TR: Joint Pub 1-0, AFCSM 10-626 Vol. II;
         AFI 10-403; AFI 10-401; AFI 36-3803
6.5.1.     JOPES                                                                                             A        -       -      B        -       -

6.5.2.     DCAPES                                   *                                                        A        -       -      B        -       -
6.5.3.  AF Personnel Accountability and
                                                                                                              -       -       -      B        -      B
        Assessment System (PAAS)
6.5.4. Use AF Personnel Accountability and
                                                                                                              b       -       -       -       -       -
        Assessment System (PAAS)
6.6. Command Relationships
      TR: JP 1-0; JP 2-2; JP 1-02; AFI 10-403;
      AFI 36-3802
6.6.1.     Supported and supporting commands                                                                 A        -       -      B        -       -



                                                                    25
                                                                   Attachment 1

                                                              3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                        4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                              INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                              PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                              A           B      C          D         E            A            B            C
                                                      2.                                                         3 SKILL      5 SKILL      7 SKILL
  REFERENCES                                          CORE                                                       LEVEL        LEVEL        LEVEL
                                                      TASKS
                                                                                                     CERT.     (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                              START    COMP    TRAINEE    TRAINER    OFFICI   Course   CDC    Course   CDC    Course   CDC
                                                              DATE     DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    AL


6.6.2.     Combatant commander                                                                                 A        -       -      B        -       -
                                                                                                                                                        -
6.6.3.     AFFOR                                                                                               A        -       -      B        -
6.7.     In Garrison Deployment Concepts and
         Functional Responsibilities
         TR: AFI 10-403; AFI 10-401; AFI 36-3802
6.7.1.     Personnel                                                                                           B        -       -      B        -      B

6.7.2.     Manpower                                                                                            A        -       -      A        -       -
6.7.3.     Installation deployment readiness center
                                                                                                               A        -       -      A        -       -
           (IDRC)
6.7.4.     Unit deployment manager (UDM)                                                                       A        -       -      A        -       -
6.8.  Installation Personnel Readiness (IPR)
      TR: AFI 36-3802; AFI 36-3803
6.8.1. Accountability


6.8.1.1.     Disaster                                 *                                                        A        -       -      B        -      B

6.8.1.2.     Deployment                               *                                                        A        -       -      B        -      B

6.8.1.3.     Categories of accountability

6.8.1.3.1.    Title 32 (ANG)                          *                                                        A        -       -      B        -      B
6.8.1.3.2.    Title 10 (active duty and air reserve   *                                                        A        -       -      B        -      B
              component)
6.8.1.3.3.    Title 5 (DoD civilians)                 *                                                        A        -       -      B        -      B

6.8.1.3.4.    Family members                          *                                                        A        -       -      B        -      B

6.8.1.3.5.    Contractors                             *                                                        A        -       -      B        -      B
6.8.2. Personnel control center (PCC)
                                                                                                               A        -       -      B        -      B

6.8.3. Reception processing                                                                                    A        -       -      B        -       -

6.8.4. Shortfall/reclama process                                                                                -       -       -      A        -      B
6.8.5. Status of resources and training system
                                                                                                                -       -       -      B        -       -
       (SORTS)
6.9. PERSCO (Deployed Operations)
      TR: AFI 36-3802; USAF Manpower Force
      Package system (MANFOR) & Logistic
      Detail (LOGDET)
6.9.1. Teams                                          *                                                        B        -       -      B        -      B

6.9.2. Predeployment planning                         *                                                         -       -       -      B        -      B



                                                                      26
                                                              Attachment 1

                                                         3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                        4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                         INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                         PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                         A           B      C          D         E            A            B            C
                                                 2.                                                         3 SKILL      5 SKILL      7 SKILL
  REFERENCES                                     CORE                                                       LEVEL        LEVEL        LEVEL
                                                 TASKS
                                                                                                CERT.     (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                         START    COMP    TRAINEE    TRAINER    OFFICI   Course   CDC    Course   CDC    Course   CDC
                                                         DATE     DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    AL


6.9.3.     Personnel processing

6.9.3.1. Reception processing                    *                                                        B        -       -      B        -      B

6.9.3.2. Personnel functions                     *                                                        B        -       -      B        -      B

6.9.3.3. Transient movement                      *                                                        B        -       -      B        -      B

6.9.3.4. Redeployed personnel                    *                                                        B        -       -      B        -      B

6.9.3.5. Forward deployed personnel              *                                                        B        -       -      B        -      B

6.9.3.6. Force management                        *                                                        B        -       -      B        -      B

6.9.3.7. Reachback support                       *                                                        B        -       -      B        -       -

                                                 *
6.9.3.8. Discrepancy reports                                                                              A        -       -      B        -       -
                                                 *
6.9.3.9. Filler and replacement functions                                                                 B        -       -      B        -       -

7. OPERATIONS

7.1.     Assignment Applications
         TR: AFI 36-2110; AFCSM 36-699 Vol. 1;
         AFI 36-2102

7.1.1. Special duty assignments
                                                                                                          B        -       -      B        -       -
       TR: EQUAL Plus; SPECAT guide

7.1.2. Other assignments (humanitarian, EFMP,
       etc).                                                                                              B        -       -      B        -       -
       TR: AFI 36-2110, Atchs 24 & 25
7.2.  Relocation Processing
      TR: AFI 36-2102, Chapter 1; AFI 33-328;
      AFI 65-103; AFI 36-2110, JFTR, Vol 1,
      DEERS
7.2.1. TDY


7.2.1.1.    Relocation folder                                                                             A        -       -      B        -       -

7.2.1.2.    Relocation checklist                                                                          A        -       -      B        -       -

7.2.1.3. Preparing orders                                                                                 B        -       -      B        -       -




                                                                 27
                                                                   Attachment 1

                                                              3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                        4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                              INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                              PROVIDED
 1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                             A           B      C          D         E            A            B            C
                                                      2.                                                         3 SKILL      5 SKILL      7 SKILL
   REFERENCES                                         CORE                                                       LEVEL        LEVEL        LEVEL
                                                      TASKS
                                                                                                     CERT.     (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                              START    COMP    TRAINEE    TRAINER    OFFICI   Course   CDC    Course   CDC    Course   CDC
                                                              DATE     DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    AL


 7.2.1.4. Validate relocation action                                                                            -       -       -       -       -      B

7.2.2.   Assignments
         TR: AFI 36-2110; AFPAM 36-2241 Vol.
         1; AFI 36-2608; AFI 36-2102; PSD guide

 7.2.2.1. Virtual out processing                                                                               B        -       -      B        -       -

 7.2.2.2.   Relocation folder                                                                                  A        -       -      B        -       -

 7.2.2.3.   Relocation checklist                                                                               A        -       -      B        -       -

 7.2.2.4. Preparing orders                                                                                     B        -       -      B        -       -

 7.2.2.5. Personnel processing code                                                                            B        -       -       -       -       -

 7.2.2.6. Validate relocation action                                                                            -       -       -       -       -      B
 7.2.2.7.  Family member travel
                                                                                                               B        -       -      B        -       -
           TR: AFI 36-3020
 7.2.2.8. Update permanent change of
           assignments (PCAs)                                                                                   -       -       -      B        -      B
           TR: AFCSM 36-699
 7.2.3. Separations
         TR: AFI 36-3206; AFI 36-3208; AFPAM
         36-3210; AFI 36-3212; AFI 36-2102;
         AFI 36-3202; PSD guide
 7.2.3.1. Processing application
           TR: AFI 36-3204; AFI 36-3205; AFI                                                                   A        -       -      B        -       -
           36-3607; AFI 36-3207
 7.2.3.2. Virtual out processing                                                                               B        -       -      B        -       -

 7.2.3.3.   Relocation folder                                                                                  A        -       -      B        -       -

 7.2.3.4.   Relocation checklist                                                                               A        -       -      B        -       -
 7.2.3.5. Preparing orders
                                                                                                               A        -       -      B        -       -

 7.2.3.6. Validate relocation action                                                                            -       -       -       -       -      B

 7.2.3.7. Preparation of certificates of release or
          discharge from active duty (DD Form                                                                  A        -       -      B        -       -
          214)

 7.2.3.8.   Discharge certificates                                                                             A        -       -       -       -       -
 7.2.3.9. Process administrative discharges
           TR: AFI 36-2604; AFI 36-3204;                                                                        -       -       -      B        -      B
           AFI 36-3205; AFI 36-3207
 7.2.4. Appellate leave
                                                                                                                -       -       -       -       -       -
         TR: AFI 36-3003
 7.2.5. Education leave of absence                                                                              -       -       -       -       -       -



                                                                      28
                                                            Attachment 1

                                                       3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                        4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                       INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                       PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                       A           B      C          D         E            A            B            C
                                               2.                                                         3 SKILL      5 SKILL      7 SKILL
  REFERENCES                                   CORE                                                       LEVEL        LEVEL        LEVEL
                                               TASKS
                                                                                              CERT.     (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                       START    COMP    TRAINEE    TRAINER    OFFICI   Course   CDC    Course   CDC    Course   CDC
                                                       DATE     DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    AL

7.2.6. Retirements
       TR: AFI 36-3020; AFI 36-3203;
       AFI 36-2110; AFI 36-3212; PSD guide

7.2.6.1. Virtual out processing                                                                         B        -       -      B        -       -


7.2.6.2. Processing applications                                                                        A        -       -       -       -       -

7.2.6.3. Validate relocation action                                                                      -       -       -       -       -      B

7.2.6.4.   Retirement certificates                                                                      A        -       -       -       -       -

7.2.6.5. Passport program
         TR: AFI 36-2110; Foreign clearance                                                             A        -       -      B        -       -
         guide (FGC)

7.2.6.6. VISA program
         TR: AFI 36-2110; Foreign clearance                                                             A        -       -      B        -       -
         guide (FGC)

7.3.   Formal Training Program
       TR: AFI 36-2013; AFI 36-2107; AFI 36-
       2205; https://etca.randolph.af.mil ;
       PSD guide

7.3.1. Oracle training administration (OTA)                                                             A        -       -      B        -      B



7.3.2. Training line number (TLN) Management                                                            A        -       -      B        -      B

7.3.3. Airman retraining program
       TR: AFI 36-2626; AFCSM 36-699 Vol. 1,
                                                                                                        A        -       -      B        -       -
       Chapter 7; PSD guide;
       https://etca.randolph.af.mil




                                                               29
                                                             Attachment 1

                                                        3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                        4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                        INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                        PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                        A           B      C          D         E            A            B            C
                                                2.                                                         3 SKILL      5 SKILL      7 SKILL
  REFERENCES                                    CORE                                                       LEVEL        LEVEL        LEVEL
                                                TASKS
                                                                                               CERT.     (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                        START    COMP    TRAINEE    TRAINER    OFFICI   Course   CDC    Course   CDC    Course   CDC
                                                        DATE     DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    AL

7.4.   Unit Personnel Management Roster
       TR: AFCSM 36-699 Vol. 1                                                                            -       -       -      B        -      B

7.5.   Maintain Unit Personnel Management
       Roster                                                                                            2b       -       -       -       -       -
       TR: AFCSM 36-699 Vol. 1

7.6.   Unit Manpower Document                                                                             -       -       -      B        -      B

7.7.   Duty Status Changes
       TR: AFCSM 36-699, Vol. 1; AFI 36-2134;                                                             -       -       -       -       -      B
       PSD Guide
7.8.   Update Duty Status Changes
       TR: AFCSM 36-699, Vol. 1; AFI 36-2134;   *                                                        2b       -       -       b       -       -
       PSD Guide

7.9.   Monitor DAFSC vs CAFSC
                                                                                                         B        -       -      B        -      B
       TR: AFI 36-2101

7.10. Inprocessing Actions
      TR: AFCSM 36-699 Vol. 1;
      AFI 36-2102

7.10.1. Initial duty assignment                                                                          A        -       -      B        -       -
7.10.2. Record review
                                                                                                         A        -       -      B        -       -
        TR: AFI 36-2102
7.10.3. Accession
                                                                                                         A        -       -      B        -       -
        TR: PSD guide
7.11. Personnel Reliability Program (PRP)
      Management
      TR: DoD 5210.42-R; AFMAN 10-3902;
                                                *                                                        B        -       -      B        -      B
      AFSCM 36-699, Vol 1; PSD Guide
7.12. Accomplishing Actions Pertaining To
      Overseas Data
      TR: AFI 36-2110; AFCSM 36-699 Vol. 1,
      Chapter 7
7.12.1. ODSD                                                                                             B        -       -      B        -       -

7.12.2. STRD                                                                                             B        -       -      B        -       -

7.12.3. DEROS                                                                                            B        -       -      B        -       -

7.12.4. Overseas tour history                                                                            B        -       -      B        -       -
7.13. Air Force Classification System
      TR: AFI 36-2101; AFCSM 36-699, Vol. 1;
      AFI 36-2201; AFOCD; AFECD; PSD
      Guide
7.13.1. AFSC




                                                                30
                                                                 Attachment 1

                                                            3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                        4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                            INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                            PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                            A           B      C          D         E            A            B            C
                                                    2.                                                         3 SKILL      5 SKILL      7 SKILL
  REFERENCES                                        CORE                                                       LEVEL        LEVEL        LEVEL
                                                    TASKS
                                                                                                   CERT.     (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                            START    COMP    TRAINEE    TRAINER    OFFICI   Course   CDC    Course   CDC    Course   CDC
                                                            DATE     DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    AL


7.13.1.1. Award                                                                                              B        -       -      B        -       -

7.13.1.2. Downgrade                                                                                          B        -       -      B        -      B

7.13.1.3. Withdraw                                                                                           B        -       -      B        -      B

7.13.1.4. AFSC conversion actions                                                                            B        -       -      B               B

7.13.2. Administer special programs

7.13.2.1. Special experience identifiers                                                                     A        -       -      B        -       -

7.13.2.2. Special duty identifiers                                                                           A        -       -      B        -       -

7.13.2.3. Reporting identifiers                                                                              A        -       -      B        -       -

7.14.     Special duty assignment pay program TR:
                                                                                                             A        -       -      B        -       -
          AFI 36-3017


7.15.     Adverse Actions

7.15.1.  Control roster
                                                                                                             B        -       -      B               B
         TR: AFI 36-2907, Chapter 2
7.15.2. Article 15
         TR: AFI 36-2608, Chapter 2; AFI 51-                                                                 B        -       -      B        -      B
         202 Chapter 3; AFI 36-2907
7.15.3. Letters of adverse actions
         TR: AFI 36-2907 Chapter 3; AFI 36-                                                                  B        -       -      B        -      B
         2608 Chapter 2
7.15.4. Unfavorable information file
         TR: AFI 36-2907; AFCSM 36-699 Vol.                                                                  B        -       -      B        -      B
         1, Chapter 3
7.16. Line of duty determinations
                                                                                                             B        -       -      B        -       -
       TR: AFI 36-2910
7.17. Compute service dates
                                                                                                             2b       -       -       b       -       -
       TR: AFI 36-2604; MPFM 03-19
7.18. Pay Actions
       TR: AFI 36-2107; AFI 36-3004; AFCSM
       36-699 Vol. 1
7.18.1. CSB Redux
                                                                                                             A        -       -      B        -       -
         TR: PSD Guide; PSDM 10-13
7.18.2. Initial enlistment bonus
                                                                                                             A        -       -      B        -       -
         TR: AFI 36-2002 Chapter 4
7.19. Officer promotion actions
       TR: AFI 36-2501; AFI 36-2504; AFPAM
                                                                                                             B        -       -      B        -      B
       36-2506; AFCSM 36-699 Vol. 1,
       Chapter 3; PSD Guide




                                                                    31
                                                               Attachment 1

                                                          3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                        4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                          INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                          PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                          A           B      C          D         E            A            B            C
                                                  2.                                                         3 SKILL      5 SKILL      7 SKILL
  REFERENCES                                      CORE                                                       LEVEL        LEVEL        LEVEL
                                                  TASKS
                                                                                                 CERT.     (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                          START    COMP    TRAINEE    TRAINER    OFFICI   Course   CDC    Course   CDC    Course   CDC
                                                          DATE     DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    AL

7.20      Enlisted Promotion Actions
          TR: AFI 36-2502; AFI 36-2605;
                                                                                                           B        -       -      B        -      B
          AF PAM 36-2241; AFCSM 36-699 Vol.1,
          Chapter 3; PSD Guide

7.21.     Computerized Promotion Products
                                                                                                           A        -       -      B        -       -
          TR: AFCSM 36-699 Vol. 1; PSD Guide

7.22.     Demotion Actions
          TR: AFI 36-2502; AFI 36-2604;                                                                    A        -       -      B        -       -
          AFCSM 36-699 Vol. 1; PSD Guide

7.23.     Manage WAPS Material
                                                                                                            -       -       -      B        -      B
          TR: AFI 36-2605

7.24.     Officer Evaluation System
          TR: AFI 36-2406; AFPAM 36-2404; PSD                                                              B        -       -      B        -       -
          Guide

7.25.     Enlisted Evaluation System
                                                                                                           B        -       -      B        -       -
          TR: AFI 36-2406; PSD Guide

7.26.     Evaluation Appeal Process
                                                                                                           A        -       -      B        -       -
          TR: AFI 36-2401; PSD Guide

7.27.     Reenlistments And Extensions
          TR: AFI 36-2606; AFCSM 36-699 Vol. 1;
          AFPC Reenlistment Guide; PSD Guide

7.27.1.     Reenlistment actions                                                                           B        -       -      B        -       -

7.27.2.     Reenlistment waivers                                                                            -       -       -      B        -       -

7.27.3.     Extensions                                                                                     A        -       -      B        -       -

7.28.     Selective Reenlistment Program
                                                                                                           A        -       -      B        -       -
          TR: AFI 36-2606; PSD Guide

7.29.     Career Job Reservation
                                                                                                           A        -       -      B        -       -
          TR: AFI 36-2606 Chapter 1; PSD Guide

7.30.     Selective Reenlistment Bonus Program
                                                                                                           A        -       -      B        -       -
          TR: AFI 36-2606; PSD Guide

7.31.     Awards And Decorations
                                                                                                           B        -       -      B        -       -
          TR: AFI 36-2803; PSD Guide

7.32.     INTRO Program
                                                                                                           A        -       -      B        -       -
          TR: AFI 36-2103

7.33.     DEERS (RAPIDS)
                                                                                                           A        -       -      B        -       -
          TR: AFI 36-3026




                                                                  32
                                                                Attachment 1

                                                           3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                        4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                           INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                           PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                           A           B      C          D         E            A            B            C
                                                   2.                                                         3 SKILL      5 SKILL      7 SKILL
  REFERENCES                                       CORE                                                       LEVEL        LEVEL        LEVEL
                                                   TASKS
                                                                                                  CERT.     (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                           START    COMP    TRAINEE    TRAINER    OFFICI   Course   CDC    Course   CDC    Course   CDC
                                                           DATE     DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    AL

7.34.     Identification Cards
          TR: AFI 36-3026
7.34.1.     Determine eligibility                                                                            a       -       -       b       -       -

7.34.2.     Process application                                                                              a       -       -       b       -       -

7.34.3.     Retrieval ID cards                                                                               a       -       -       b       -       -

7.35.     Processing Join Spouse Intent
                                                                                                            A        -       -      B        -       -
          TR: AFI 36-2110

7.36.     Record Of Emergency Data
                                                                                                            A        -       -       -       -       -
          TR: AFI 36-3002; vRED

7.37.     Application For Correction Of Records
          TR: AFI 36-2603, AFPAM 36-2607, PSD                                                                -       -       -      A        -       -
          Guide

7.38.     Government Life Insurance
          TR: AFI 36-3008

7.38.1.     Complete SGLI                                                                                   2b       -       -       b       -       -

7.38.2.     Complete FGLI                                                                                   2b       -       -       b       -       -

7.38.3.     VGLI                                                                                             -       -       -      A                -

7.38.4.     Traumatic SGLI                                                                                   -       -       -      B        -       -
7.39.     Bureau Of Citizenship And Immigration
          Service (BCIS)
                                                                                                            A        -       -       -       -       -
          TR: PSD guide;
          http://www.uscis.gov/portal/site/uscis

7.40.     Casualty Services Program
                                                                                                             A       -       -      B        -      B
          TR: AFI 36-3002; DCIPS Guide

7.41.     Prepare Casualty Report
          TR: DCIPS Guide                          *                                                       2b        -       -       b       -       b


7.42.     Service Commitment Program
                                                                                                            A        -       -      B        -       -
          TR: AFI 36-2107; PSD Guide

7.43.     Personnel System Management Functional
          Responsibilities
                                                                                                             -       -       -      A        -      B
          TR: AFCSM 36-699 Vol. 6; BLSDM
          Guide

7.44.     Manage Unit Leave Program
                                                                                                             b       -       -       b       -       -
          TR: AFI 36-3003; AFMAN 65-116V2




                                                                   33
                                                            Attachment 1

                                                       3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                        4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                                                                       INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                       PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                       A           B      C          D         E            A            B            C
                                               2.                                                         3 SKILL      5 SKILL      7 SKILL
  REFERENCES                                   CORE                                                       LEVEL        LEVEL        LEVEL
                                               TASKS
                                                                                              CERT.     (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                       START    COMP    TRAINEE    TRAINER    OFFICI   Course   CDC    Course   CDC    Course   CDC
                                                       DATE     DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    AL

7.45.     BAS Program
          TR: AFMAN 65-116V2; AFPAM 36-
          2241, Vol. 1

7.45.1.    Overview                                                                                     B        -       -       -       -       -

7.45.2.    Administration procedures                                                                     -       -       -       b       -       -
7.46. Adoption Reimbursement
                                                                                                         -       -       -       -       -      A
      TR: DODI 1341.9
7.47. Voting Assistance Program
                                                                                                         -       -       -       -       -      A
       TR: AFI 36-3101
7.48. Memorialization
                                                                                                         -       -       -       -       -      A
       TR: AFI 36-3108
7.49. G Series Orders
      TR: PSD Guide; AFI 33-328; AFI 38-101;                                                             -       -       -       -       -       -
      AFI 51-604
7.50. Transitional Compensation For Abused
      Dependents                                                                                         -       -       -       -       -       -
      TR: AFI 36-3024
7.51. Essential Station Messing (ESM)
      TR: DFAS-DEM 7073-2, Chap 6, Para
      C6.7; DoD Financial Management
      Regulation Vol 7A, Chap 25
7.51.1.    Overview                                                                                     B        -       -       -       -       -

7.51.2.    Administration procedures                                                                     -       -       -       b       -       -




                                                               34
                                       Attachment 1


SECTION B - Course Objective List

4. Not Used. This area is reserved.

Section C - Support Materials

5. There are currently no support materials available. This area is reserved.

Section D - Training Course Index

6. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the
specialty and shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field
training programs.

7. Air Force In-Residence Courses.
COURSE NUMBER                     TITLE                          LOCATION

E3ABR3S031-0A1B                   Personnel Apprentice              Keesler

E3AZR3S051 AA2B                       DCAPES Wing level             Keesler
                                      Operators

E7AZT3S051 0A1B                       DCAPES Wing level             MTT
                                      Operators
8. Specialized Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning (AFIADL).

COURSE NUMBER                     TITLE

3S051                                 Personnel Journeyman
3S071                                 Personnel Craftsman

9. Exportable Courses. There are currently no exportable courses. This area is
reserved.

10. Courses Under Development/Revision. There are currently no courses under
development. This area is reserved.

Section E – MAJCOM Unique Requirements.

11. Contact servicing MAJCOM for availability of MAJCOM unique requirements. This
    area is reserved.




                                        35
