 DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                              CFETP 1A8X1X
 Headquarters U.S. Air Force                                                Parts I and II
 Washington, DC 20330-1070                                                  1 March 2014




                       AFSC 1A8X1X
            Airborne Cryptologic Language Analyst




   CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING
               PLAN (CFETP)
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.



                                             i
                                   UNCLASSIFIED


                 CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                 AIRBORNE CRYPTOLOGIC LANGUAGE ANALYST
                                AFSC 1A8X1X

                                     Table of Contents

Part I

Preface                                                      1
Abbreviations and Terms Explained                            2
Section A – General Information                             10
    Purpose of the CFETP                                    10
    Use of the CFETP                                        10
    Coordination and Approval of the CFETP                  11
Section B – Career Field Progression and Information        11
    Specialty Descriptions                                  11
    Skill/Career Progression                                12
        Apprentice Level (3)                                13
        Journeyman Level (5)                                13
        Craftsman Level (7)                                 13
        Superintendent Level (9)                            14
        Training Decisions                                  14
        Foreign Language Proficiency                        14
        Community College of the Air Force                  18
    Career Field Path                                       21
Section C – Skill Level Training Requirements               24
    Purpose                                                 24
    Specialty Qualifications                                24
        Apprentice Level (3)                                24
        Journeyman Level (5)                                25
        Craftsman Level (7)                                 26
        Superintendent Level (9)                            27
Section D – Resource Constraints                            28
    Purpose                                                 28
    Apprentice Level Training                               28
    Five Level Training                                     28
    Seven Level Training                                    28
Section E – Transitional Training Guide                     29




                                              ii
                                  UNCLASSIFIED

                                  Table of Contents (con’t)

Part II

Section A – Specialty Training Standards (STS)                             30
   Implementation                                                          30
   Purpose                                                                 30
   Qualitative Requirements                                                30
   Recommendations                                                         30
   Attachment 1: Qualitative Requirements                                  32
   Attachment 2: STS – 1AXXX Common Core                                   33
   Attachment 3: STS – 1NXXX Common Core                                   37
   Attachment 4: STS – 1A831X Airborne Cryptologic Language Analyst        41
   Attachment 5: STS – 1A851X Career Development Course                    48
Section B – Course Objective List                                          50
   Measurement                                                             50
   Standard                                                                50
   Proficiency Level                                                       50
   Course Objective                                                        50
Section C – Support Materials                                              50
Section D – Training Course Index                                          51
   Air Force In-Residence Courses                                          51
   Air Force Institute of Advanced Distributed Learning (AFIADL) Courses   51
   Career Enhancement Programs                                             52
   Intern Programs                                                         52
   Degree Programs                                                         52
Section E – MAJCOM Unique Requirements                                     53
   Major Command Courses                                                   53




OPR: 316 TRS/XPP
Certified By: AF/A2DFM (SMSgt Justin Needle)
Approved By: CMSgt Adam Watson
Supersedes: CFETP 1A8X1, 1 June 2011
Pages: 52




                                           iii
                                       UNCLASSIFIED

                   AIRBORNE CRYPTOLOGIC LANGUAGE ANALYST
                                           AFSC 1A8X1X
                   CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN



PART I

Preface

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education and training requirements, training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for this specialty. The CFETP will provide
personnel a clear career path to success and will instill rigor in all aspects of career field training.
Note: NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty position
qualification training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts; supervisors plan, manage, and control training within the
specialty using both parts of the plan.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how everyone will use the plan; Section B identifies career progression information,
duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path; Section C associates each
level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, training, and other); and Section D
indicates resource constraints. Some examples are funds, manpower, equipment, and facilities.
Section E identifies transition training guide requirements for SrA through MSgt.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS)
and includes duties, tasks, technical references to support training, Air Education and Training
Command (AETC) conducted training, wartime course and core task and correspondence course
requirements. Section B contains the course objective list and training standards, which
supervisors will use to determine if airmen have satisfied training requirements. Section C
identifies available support materials. An example is a Qualification Training Package (QTP),
which may be developed to support proficiency training. Section D identifies a training course
index supervisors can use to determine resources available to support training. Included here are
both mandatory and optional courses. Section E identifies MAJCOM unique training
requirements supervisors can use to determine additional training required for the associated
qualification needs. At unit level, supervisors, trainers, Cryptologic Language Program
Managers (CLPMs), Language Mentors and Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) will use Part II to
identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive
effective and efficient training at the appropriate points in their careers. This plan will enable us
to train today's work force for tomorrow's jobs.




                                                   1
                                      UNCLASSIFIED

ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Degree Programs. Programs at locations such as National Intelligence University and
Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) that prepare Intelligence, Surveillance, and
Reconnaissance professionals, through education and research, to work with skill and dedication
in identifying and effectively integrating foreign, military and domestic intelligence in defense of
the homeland and of U.S. interests abroad.

Airborne Cryptologic Language Analyst (ACLACLA). Operates, evaluates, and manages
airborne signals intelligence information systems and operations activities and related ground
processing activities. Performs identification, acquisition, recording, translating, analyzing, and
reporting of assigned voice communications. Provides signals intelligence threat warning support
and interfaces with other units. Performs and assists in mission planning. Maintains publications
and currency items. Maintains and supervises communication nets. Transcribes, processes, and
conducts follow-up analysis of assigned communications. (Ref: most current AFECD)

Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD). The directory containing the official
specialty descriptions for all enlisted military classification codes and identifiers used to identify
an Air Force job. The AFECD outlines the minimum mandatory qualifications necessary to fill a
particular job. These standards are used to procure, classify and employ personnel.

Aircrew Fundamentals Course (AFC). A course designed to screen candidates for the rigors of
enlisted aircrew duties prior to expending expensive follow-on training resources.

Air Force Service Cryptologic Component (AF SCC). Principal advisor to Headquarters Air
Force, A2 Directorate for all programming, budgeting, training, personnel, policy, doctrine,
governance and foreign relationships for USAF cryptologic activities. Service lead for AF
cryptologic activities and has management oversight of those elements of the USAF performing
cryptologic functions. This applies to the cryptologic staff of the AF ISR Agency, its subordinate
elements, and cryptologic elements assigned to other USAF organizations. The AF ISR Agency
Commander is the AF/SCC Commander and principal USAF advisor to DIRNSA/CHCSS for
USAF cryptologic matters (Ref: AFI 14-128).

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). Representative appointed by the respective HQ
USAF Deputy Chief of Staff or Under Secretariat, to ensure assigned AF specialties are trained
and utilized to support AF mission requirements. Their responsibilities include establishing career
field entry requirements, managing trained personnel requirements, and developing and managing
career-long training plan requirements and programs. They also construct viable career paths,
evaluate training effectiveness, monitor health and manning of the career field, and provide input
on manning personnel policies and programs. Additionally, they implement and advise on changes
to force management policies and programs, develop contingency planning actions, validate
deployment requirements, and verify workforce availability. Enlisted AFCFMs are typically
CMSgts and are normally located at Headquarters, Air Force. There is a separate AFCFM for
Active Duty, Air National Guard, and the Air Force Reserve components for a career field (Ref:
AFI 36-2618).



                                                   2
                                      UNCLASSIFIED

The Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT). The Air Force’s graduate school of engineering
and management as well as its institution for technical professional continuing education. A
component of Air University and Air Education and Training Command, AFIT provides defense-
focused graduate and professional continuing education and research to sustain the technological
supremacy of America’s air and space forces. AFIT accomplishes its mission through three
resident schools: the Graduate School of Engineering and Management, the School of Systems
and Logistics, and the Civil Engineer and Services School.

Air Force Specialty (AFS) Manager. AFS expert on the HQ USAF staff responsible for
overseeing all aspects of a particular Air Force Specialty. Coordinates with MAJCOM and FOA
functional and training managers, technical training center personnel, Career Development Course
writers and subject matter experts to provide career path development and identify Career Field
Education and Training Plan training tasks items to meet national, tactical and Air Force training
requirements. Other responsibilities include reviewing AFS manpower utilization, managing AFS
classification guidance, and overall status of the health of their particular AFS.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard/Command Job Qualification Standard
(AFJQS/CJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a particular job type or duty position. It
is used by supervisors to document task qualifications. The tasks on AFJQS/CJQS are common to
all persons serving in the described duty position.

Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC)/Reporting Identifier (RI). A combination of alpha-numeric
characters which are used to identify a specific career field and qualification level for Air Force
officers and enlisted personnel.

Basic Aircraft Qualification (BAQ). An aircrew member who has satisfactorily completed
training prescribed to maintain the skills necessary to perform aircrew duties in the unit aircraft.
(Ref: AFI 11-202V1)

Basic Mission Capable (BMC). An aircrew member who has satisfactorily completed mission
qualification training, is qualified in some aspect of the unit mission, but does not maintain
MR/CMR status. (Ref: AFI 11-202V1)

Career Development Course (CDC). A self-paced, correspondence course published to provide
the information necessary to satisfy the career knowledge component of OJT. These courses are
developed from references identified in the CFETP correlating with mandatory knowledge items
listed in the Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory. CDCs will contain information on basic
principles, techniques and procedures common to an AFS. They do not contain information on
specific equipment or tasks unless best illustrating a procedure or technique having utility to the
entire AFSC. (Ref: AFI 36-2201)

Career Enlisted Aviator (CEA). An enlisted Airman awarded and performing permanent duty in
AFSCs 1AXXX and 1U0X1. (Ref: AFI 36-2101)

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive core
training document that identifies life-cycle education and training requirements, training support

                                                  3
                                      UNCLASSIFIED

resources, and minimum core task requirements for a specialty. The CFETP aims to give
personnel a clear path and instill a sense of industry in career field training (Ref: AFI 36-2201).

CEA Center of Excellence (CoE). The cornerstone of all career enlisted aviator training
conducted at Lackland AFB, TX. Provides undergraduate and initial skills training through the
award of the 1-skill level.

Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM) Code. A five-digit code ending in 00 to identify CMSgts and
CMSgt-selects as top enlisted managers in both highly technical skills and in broad areas of
managerial competence (Ref: AFI 36-2618).

Combat Mission Ready (CMR). An aircrew member who has satisfactorily completed mission
qualification training and maintains qualification and proficiency in the command or unit combat
mission (Ref: AFI 11-202V1)

Command Language Program (CLP). Any program operated by Commanders to ensure
assigned personnel requiring foreign language proficiency are trained and qualified to perform
missions. This may include acquisition, conversion or enhancement training.

Command Language Program Manager (CLPM). Manages the Command Language Program.
(Ref: DLI PAM 350-9)

Continuation Training (CT). The continuation training program provides crew members with
the volume, frequency, and mix of training necessary to maintain proficiency in the assigned
qualification level or certification. (Ref: AFI 14-125)

Core Task. Task the AFCFM identifies as a minimum qualification requirement for everyone
within an AFSC, regardless of duty position. Core tasks may be specified for a particular skill
level or in general across the AFSC. (Ref: AFI 36-2201).

Course Objective List (COL). A publication, derived from initial/advanced skills course training
standard, identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective standards provided to
achieve a 3-5-7-skill level in a career field. Supervisors use the COL to assist in conducting
graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program.

Crew Resource Management (CRM). The effective use of all available resources, to include
people, weapon systems, facilities and equipment, and environment, by individuals or crews to
safely and efficiently accomplish an assigned mission or task. The term “CRM” will be used to
refer to the training program, objectives, and key skills directed to this end. (Ref: AFI 11-290)

Cryptologic Language. Language as it is encountered in a cryptologic context. This includes
signals intelligence (SIGINT) factors such as noise, incompleteness/garbles, mix of dialects,
cover terms, unknown recipients, and unknown context. It also includes linguistic factors such
as specialized subject matter and/or jargon/intelligence factors (Essential Elements of
Information, collection, processing, and dissemination, etc.), and communication technology
factors.

                                                  4
                                     UNCLASSIFIED

Cryptologic Language Analyst (ACLA). Airmen in AFSC 1N3X1 or 1A8X1X who perform
and supervise acquisition, recording, transcribing, translating, analyzing, and reporting of
assigned communications. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 123200 (Ref: most current
AFECD).

Cryptologic Mission Certification Training (CMCT). Initial cryptologic training completed at
the line flying unit designed to certify ACLAs in their language/mission management position for
the unit mission. It also includes the continuation training required to maintain currency of
cryptologic mission skills. (Ref: AFI 14-125)

Cryptologic Skills Program (CSP). AF/A2 program to promote, develop and maintain a high
state of cryptologic mission readiness to facilitate immediate and effective employment of
Airborne Cryptologic Language Analysts (AFSC 1A8X1X) on operational missions. (Ref: AFI
14-125)

Cryptologic Skills Proficiency Test (CSPT). A proficiency test designed to measure cryptologic
skills necessary to accomplish unit mission objectives. For language specific positions, it includes
an academic test covering vocabulary/terminology, target knowledge/order of battle, and
geography, and an aural skills evaluation covering transcription/aural recognition. For mission
management positions, it includes an academic test covering area specific order of battle/tactics,
geo/political, analysis and reporting, threat warning, and SIGINT mission management
(cryptanalysis, signals analysis, language analysis, and intelligence analysis) and an aural skills
evaluation in the crew member’s primary Resource Language Allocation code. Each mission will
identify mission management positions and will have an aircrew qualification for each
corresponding position and CSPT. (Ref: AFI 14-125)

Cryptologic Training Advisory Group (CTAG). Group composed of decision-makers and
representative Subject Matter Experts (SME) from the Services and NSA/CSS, for the purpose of
establishing, revising, reviewing, and validating cryptologic training conducted under the
auspices of an Executive Agent or Responsible Training Authority to ensure technical adequacy
(Ref: NSA Policy 4-25)

Cryptologic Training System-Training Standard (CTS-TS). Tasks and knowledge that
personnel in a specialty may be expected to perform or to know on the job. These training
tasks are developed through the CTAG process and are common to all NSA/CSS personnel and
Service-members for a particular skill community. If a particular Service has training
requirements that are not common to NSA/CSS personnel or the other Services, they are
developed through the STRT/U&TW process (NSA/CSS Policy 4-25).

Defense Language Institute Foreign Language Center (DLIFLC). Managed by the
U.S. Army as executive agent (EA) for foreign language training within the DoD,
DLIFLC is the primary institution for all foreign language training. DLIFLC is located
at the Presidio of Monterey, California and has training facilities located in Washington,
DC and training detachments at various locations around the world.

Defense Language Proficiency Test (DLPT). DoD standardized testing system for measuring an
individual’s proficiency in a foreign language. It consists of a battery of tests that measures the
                                                 5
                                      UNCLASSIFIED

general ability of a native or near-native speaker of English to comprehend a spoken and written
foreign language and to speak the language (Ref: DoDI 5160.71; see also: OPI, AFI 36-2605,
Attachment 10 that governs the DLPT system.

Diagnostic Language Assessment. Academic tool designed to identify a ACLA’s strengths and
needs in a foreign language and provides ACLA with individualized, relevant feedback. This
feedback is based on a sampling of ACLA’s abilities across a variety of levels, topics, tasks, and
specific linguistic features. When possible, existing formal diagnostic language assessment tools
should be used. The DLIFLC Online Diagnostic Assessment (ODA) can be accessed via
http://www.dliflc.edu/products.html.

Field Evaluation Questionnaire (FEQ). An extensive survey designed to solicit feedback from
supervisors and/or graduates of technical school to determine if graduates were trained as
specified in the training standard. This survey is sent approximately 6 months after graduation
to the Base Education and Training Manager, if unclassified, or direct to the Unit Training
Manager, if classified (Ref: AETCI 36-2201).

Foreign Language Proficiency Bonus (FLPB)/Foreign Language Proficiency Pay (FLPP).
Monetary incentive paid to eligible and qualified military (FLPB) and civilian (FLPP) personnel
possessing foreign language proficiency. The objective of FLPB/FLPP is to encourage the
acquisition, maintenance and enhancement of foreign language skills vital to national defense. The
ability of the Air Force to interact in the international arena and respond effectively to any global
contingency mandates the need for qualified personnel to communicate with our allies and the
local populations as well as with our adversaries. An Airman's application, qualification for and
receipt of FLPB constitute acknowledgment that he or she may be called upon to respond to global
contingency requirements (Ref: DoDI 7280.03,AFI 36-2605)

Formal Training Unit (FTU). Unit tasked with training weapon system specific knowledge and
skills necessary to execute a mission.

Global Language Training. Training designed to improve fundamental language skills such
as reading, listening comprehension, translation, transcription, grammar, vocabulary, and
speaking.

Individual Language Training Plan (ILTP). Language training plan developed by
supervisors, in coordination with SMEs and CLPMs that provides a path to increasing foreign
language proficiency. All 1A8X1Xs will have an ILTP within the 6-part training folder.

Initial Qualification Training (IQT). An aircrew member engaged in training needed to qualify
for basic aircrew duties in an assigned position for a specific aircraft, without regard for the unit’s
operational mission. (Ref: AFI 11-202V1)

Initial Skills Training. A basic, formal, in-residence course leading to the award of a 3-
skill level AFSC. (REF AFI 36-2201).

Instructional System Development (ISD). Deliberate and orderly, but flexible, process for
planning, developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures that
personnel are taught in a cost-efficient way the knowledge, skills, and attitudes essential for
                                                  6
                                     UNCLASSIFIED

successful job performance. (Ref: AFMAN 36-2234)

Interagency Language Roundtable (ILR) Scale. Set of skill specific descriptions of eleven
proficiency levels which characterize abilities to communicate in a language. The levels are: 0
(No Proficiency), 0+ (Memorized Proficiency), 1 (Elementary Proficiency), 1+ (Elementary
Proficiency Plus), 2 (Limited Working Proficiency), 2+ (Limited Working Proficiency Plus), 3
(General Professional Proficiency), 3+ General Professional Proficiency Plus), 4 (Advanced
Professional Proficiency), 4+ (Advanced Professional Proficiency Plus) and 5 (Functionally
Native Proficiency) (Ref: http://www.govtilr.org)

Language Training Activities. In the context of this CFETP, language training activities are
those that increase proficiency. All activities will be documented in the appropriate training
folder. Suggested activities include, but are not limited to: DLIFLC resident and non-resident
courses, National Cryptologic School (NCS) courses, language center materials, Partner Language
Training Center-Europe, local college courses, and Internet sources. (Ref: DLI PAM 350-9)

            Initial Acquisition Language Training. Basic language instruction program
             designed for personnel who have no measurable proficiency in the target language.
             Acquisition language training is any formal language training program designed to
             achieve a minimum ILR skill level L2/R2/S1+ upon completion. Short-term,
             accelerated courses, sometimes known as turbo courses, are not considered to be
             acquisition-level training unless determined by the AFCFM.

            Conversion Training. Formal acquisition-level training designed to achieve
             proficiency in a language or dialect that is similar to a language or dialect for which
             ILR skill level L2/R2 has already been achieved (e.g. Modern Standard Arabic to
             Levantine Arabic; Persian Farsi to Persian Dari). Conversion training normally
             occurs when additional language skill is required to complement existing skills to
             meet mission requirements. Training is typically shorter in duration than that which
             would be required if a minimum ILR skill level L2/R2 in a similar language did not
             exist. Conversion training will not result in a change to an individual’s AFSC.

            Relanguage. Formal acquisition-level language training that provides an additional
             language capability to an Airman in a language that is disparate from the language for
             which ILR skill level L2/R2 has already been achieved (e.g. Modern Standard Arabic
             to French). Relanguaging normally occurs when additional language skill is required
             to complement existing skills to meet mission requirements (e.g. Arabic to French).
             The decision to relanguage an individual rests with the functional management
             community (CFM). Relanguaging will not result in a change to an individual’s
             AFSC.

            Enhancement Training. Generic term for training designed to increase foreign
             language proficiency.

MAJCOM and FOA Functional Managers. SNCOs that manage designated enlisted career
fields for a MAJCOM or FOA and serve as liaisons to their respective AFCFMs. MAJCOM and
FOA Functional Managers monitor the health and manning of their career fields within their
                                                 7
                                     UNCLASSIFIED

command and elevate concerns to AFCFMs. They manage command training for their career field
and coordinate command training and personnel issues across their MAJCOM or FOA staff and
AFCFMs. They disseminate Air Force and career field policies and program requirements
affecting their career field throughout the MAJCOM or FOA. They coordinate with the Air Force
Personnel Center, through their respective A1 Directorate, to distribute personnel throughout the
MAJCOM or FOA to ensure proper command prioritization of allocated/assigned personnel
resources. They provide functional and subject matter expertise to Air Education and Training
Command Training Managers to develop new or modify/improve existing training programs (REF
AFI 36-2618).

Major Weapons Systems (MWS). For the purpose of this CFETP, MWS consists of all
applicable airborne platforms with a crew complement including at least one 1A8X1X.

Mission Design Series (MDS). A term used to identify a specific aircraft designation (e.g., EC-
130H, RC-135U, AC-130).

Mission Qualification Training (MQT). Training necessary to qualify a crewmember in a
specific aircrew position to perform the command’s or unit’s operational mission. MQT
completion is a prerequisite for mission ready status. (Ref: AFI 11-202V1)

National Intelligence University (NIU). DoD’s academic institution of higher learning dedicated
to the pursuit of intelligence education and research, and academic outreach in the field of
intelligence. NIU offers both undergraduate and graduate degree programs, part and full-time to
enlisted, officer and civilian personnel. (Ref: http://www.dia.mil/college)

Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). Detailed report showing the results of an occupational
survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS. The Microsoft Excel®-based product includes
narrative analysis and data formatted into tables that can easily be sorted by the user to quickly
identify and highlight data tailored to user needs. .


Oral Proficiency Interview (OPI). A test administered in person, by telephone, or other
approved means to measure an individual’s foreign language proficiency in the speaking modality
across the entire ILR scale. (Ref: DoDI 5160.71)

Qualification Training (QT). Hands-on performance training designed to qualify an airman in a
specific position. This training occurs both during and after upgrade training to maintain up-to-
date qualifications. (Ref: AFI 36-2201)

Quality of Analysis (Q of A) Program. The General Defense Intelligence Program funds this
program to improve the quality of DoD intelligence analysis and help train qualified intelligence
professionals by increasing their depth of analytical, area, and functional expertise. (Ref: AFI 14-
106)

Required Language Attribute (RLA). Digraph or code used to indicate an authorized
language identity is required. Language, other than English, is required to perform the
duties of the position.
                                                 8
                                     UNCLASSIFIED

Senior Enlisted Intelligence Master Skills Course (SEIMSC). An advanced
intelligence training course for senior enlisted Intelligence, Surveillance, and
Reconnaissance (IS) non-commissioned officers designed to expand their knowledge of
ISR core competencies and distinctive capabilities in preparation for increased leadership
and professional responsibilities.

Significant Language Training Event (SLTE). At least 150 hours of immersion training or 6
consecutive weeks of 5-hour-a-day classroom training, or other significant event as defined by the
Secretaries of the Military Departments and the Heads of Defense Agencies and DoD Field
Activities. (Ref: DoDI 5160.71)

Special Experience Identifier (SEI). A code used to identify special experience and training not
otherwise identified within the military personnel data system (MilPDS). SEIs complement the
assignment process but are not substitutes for AFSCs, CEM codes, prefixes, suffixes, SDIs, RIs,
personnel processing codes, and professional specialty course codes. They are established when
identifying experience or training is critical to the job and person assignment match, and no other
identification is appropriate or available.

Specialty Training Requirements Team (STRT)/Utilization and Training Workshop
(U&TW). A forum co-chaired by the AFCFM and AF Training Pipeline Manager comprised of
MAJCOM Functional Managers, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training personnel
that determine education and training requirements and establishes the most effective mix of
formal and on-the-job training for each AFSC. The forum will create or revise training standards,
and set responsibilities for providing training. As a quality control tool, the STRT/U&TW will be
used to ensure the validity and viability of the AFS training that determines career ladder training
requirements (Ref: AFI 36-2201).

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force
specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge that an airman in that specialty may be expected to
perform or to know on the job. Also identifies the training provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, or 7-skill
level within an enlisted AFS. It further serves as a contract between AETC and the functional user
to show which of the overall training requirements for an Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) are
taught in formal schools and correspondence courses. (Ref: AFI 36-2201)

Test Control Officers (TCOs). Individual assigned the responsibility for controlling and
safeguarding all test materials, schedules and proctoring.

Total Force. All collective Air Force components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian elements)
of the United States Air Force.

Upgrade Training. Mandatory training which leads to the attainment of a higher skill level.

Wartime Skills. Wartime skills/tasks training are initiated based upon a national emergency.
These wartime skills are identified by the letter “w” in the 3-level position of the STS and will be
taught at an accelerated course at Goodfellow AFB while the trainee is going through technical
training school.
                                                 9
                                       UNCLASSIFIED

Section A – General Information

1. Purpose. This CFETP provides the information necessary for AFCFMs, MFMs, commanders,
training managers, supervisors and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective and
efficient career field training program. The plan outlines the training that individuals in this AFS
should receive in order to develop and progress throughout their career. This plan identifies initial
skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced and proficiency training. Initial skills training is the AFS
specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon retraining into this
specialty for award of the 3-skill level. Normally, this training is conducted by AETC at one of
the technical training centers. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task
qualification requirements, and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the
3-, 5-, 7-, 9-skill level. Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training
designed to qualify an airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both
during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills and
knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training is formal specialty training used for selected
airmen. Proficiency training is additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced
training courses, or on-the-job training provided to personnel to increase their skills and
knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP also serves the following
purposes:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field-training
program. Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an
individual’s career.

1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education and training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.

1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and the training
delivery method.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired career
field training process.

2. Use of CFETP. The plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure
comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

2.1. AETC personnel will develop or revise formal resident, non-resident, field and exportable
training based upon requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of the
CFETP. The lead command MFM will work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies
for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial,
upgrade, and proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, and contract training or exportable
courses can satisfy identified requirements. MAJCOM-developed training used to support this
AFSC must be identified for inclusion into the plan.

                                                   10
                                      UNCLASSIFIED

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan. The
list of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

2.4. Personnel in AFSC 1AXXX are exempt from maintaining OJT Training Folders (AF Form
623, Individual Training Record Folder). All training not documented in Flight Evaluation Folder
(FEF) will be documented in each Airman’s Six-Part Folder as follows:

2.4.1. Part 1: CFETP/STS

2.4.2. Part 2: Certifications

2.4.3. Part 3: Language Maintenance Records

2.4.4. Part 4: CSP Documentation

2.4.5. Part 5: Waivers

2.4.6. Part 6: Narrative Remarks

2.5. All aircrew training is certified via AF Form 8/8a, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification, by
trained evaluators. Certification of the AF Form 8/8a does not eliminate the requirement to
document STS items in this CFETP. Document IAW AFI 36-2201, chapter 6 for all changes to a
CFETP to include; converting to a New CFETP, Transcribing, Decertification and/or Re-
certification. An AFJQS may be used in lieu of Part II of the CFETP only upon approval of the
AFCFM. NOTE: AFCFM may supplement these minimum documentation procedures as
needed or deemed necessary for their career field. The STS line items covered during an aircrew
qualification can be signed off upon certification of the AF Form 8/8a.

3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority. Also, the AFCFM will
initiate an annual review of this document to ensure currency and accuracy. MAJCOM
representatives and AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field
training requirements. Using the list of courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.

Section B - Career Progression and Information

4. Specialty Description.

4.1. Specialty Summary. Operates, evaluates, and manages airborne signals intelligence
information systems and operations activities and related ground processing activities. Performs
identification, acquisition, recording, translating, analyzing, and reporting of assigned voice
communications. Provides signals intelligence threat warning support and interfaces with other
units. Performs and assists in mission planning. Maintains publications and currency items.
Maintains and supervises communication nets. Transcribes, processes, and conducts follow-up
analysis of assigned communications. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 123200.

4.2. Duties and Responsibilities.

                                                 11
                                     UNCLASSIFIED

4.2.1. Processes, exploits, analyzes and disseminates signal intelligence information. Operates
airborne signals intelligence systems and mission equipment. Uses radio receivers, recording
equipment, operator workstations and related equipment. Tunes receivers to prescribed
frequencies. Performs frequency search missions over specified portions of radio spectrums.
Monitors, records, compiles, and examines signals intelligence information. Translates, evaluates,
and reports on assigned communications. Records and correlates data and performs preliminary
analysis. Identifies and analyzes traffic for reportable significance. Improves analytical methods
and procedures and maximizes operational effectiveness. Compiles operational data for mission
reports.

4.2.2. Provides signal intelligence information. Compares displays and data with in-flight signal
intelligence data and database files. Performs and assists in mission planning and developing air
tasking orders. Displays, records, and distributes operational information. Receives, transmits, and
relays encoded and decoded messages. Uses coordinate reference systems. Coordinates mission
profile requirements. Records special interest mission information. Maintains status of mission
aircraft, targets, and air tasking order information. Monitors employment of assigned air assets and
operations.

4.2.3. Provides threat warning and actionable intelligence to customers as required. Achieves and
maintains situational awareness of impending/ongoing air, ground and maritime combat
operations. Employs intelligence information systems to satisfy air, ground, and maritime force
intelligence and threat warning requirements. Provides threat warning information to aircrews and
other agencies. Coordinates with airborne, ground, and maritime agencies to distribute and relay
operational threat and identification data. Transmits identification and other mission information.
Knowledgeable of U.S. and allied operations such as interception, interdiction, Close Air Support
(CAS), Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR), Combat Air Patrol (CAP), reconnaissance, Offensive
or Defensive Counter Air (OCA/DCA), Suppression of Enemy Air Defenses (SEAD), and Special
Operations Forces (SOF).

4.2.4. Coordinates and exchanges identification information. Coordinates with aerospace rescue
and recovery services and operations. Maintains liaison with reporting agencies required for
mission execution.

4.2.5. Manages mission activities. Manages standardization, qualification, reports, records, and
other requirements. Ensures accuracy, completeness, format, and compliance with current
directives and mission system performance engineering, preventive maintenance programs, and
aircrew procedures.

4.2.6. Performs aircrew duties. Demonstrates and maintains proficiency in emergency equipment
use and procedures, and egress. Performs pre-flight, through-flight, and post-flight inspections.
Operates aircraft systems and equipment, such as electrical, interphone, doors, and exits. Ensures
equipment and resources are externally clean, functional, and free from safety hazard. Reports
malfunctions and observations. Supervises loading and off-loading of classified material and
personal aircrew gear. Applies restraint devices, such as straps and nets, to prevent shifting during
flight. Ensures access to escape exits.

4.2.7. Maintains technical aids, logs, and records. Compiles and maintains operation records and
                                                 12
                                     UNCLASSIFIED

statistics. Ensures logs, forms, and correspondence are properly completed, annotated, and
distributed. Monitors and maintains working aids, and analytical references.

5. Skill/Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to the
superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force's ability to accomplish its
mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training do his or her part to plan, manage, and
conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will
ensure individuals receive viable training at appropriate points in their career. The following
narratives, and the AFSC 1A8X1X career field flow charts (see paragraph 8), identify the training
career path. It defines the training required over an individual’s career.

5.1. Apprentice (3) Level. Meeting mandatory requirements listed in the AFECD specialty
description, and completion of the Aircrew Fundamentals Course at Lackland AFB, TX is
mandatory. Possess minimum language proficiency scores of L2/R2 as measured by the Defense
Language Proficiency Test (DLPT) and/or Oral Proficiency Interview (OPI) equivalent scores.
Tasks and knowledge training requirements are identified in the specialty training standard, at Part
II, Section A. Individuals must complete the initial skills course to be awarded AFSC 1A831X.
Attendance of the 3- level course is waived for 1N3X1s who cross train into 1A8X1X in the same
language. For 1A8X1X personnel acquiring another language, attendance in the 3-level awarding
course is mandatory, if a target language course exists within AETC.

5.2. Journeyman (5) Level. 1A851X. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1A831X. Also,
experience performing airborne cryptologic linguist functions. Upgrade training to the 5-skill level
in this specialty consists of tasks and knowledge training provided in Career Development Courses
(CDC) 1A851X and 1NX51, and possession of minimum language proficiency scores of L2/R2 as
measured by the DLPT and/or OPI equivalent scores. Individuals in this skill level should strive
to achieve language proficiency scores of L2+/R2+ (or OPI equivalent) and/or proficiency in
additional foreign language(s). Individuals should also be considered for crew position upgrade
training at this time. Individuals must meet the mandatory requirements listed in the AFECD
specialty description, be recommended by their supervisors, and have completed a minimum of 12
months in UGT. Retrainees are subject to the same training requirements, and a minimum of 9
months in UGT. Locations with a flying Formal Training Unit will defer upgrade training
enrollment and CDC order until after completion of the FTU and assignment to the first permanent
duty station. 3 skill-level students will be updated to Training Status Code B (TSC B) upon
arrival at Formal Training Unit. Locations without a flying Formal Training Unit will enter
individuals into upgrade training and order CDCs upon arrival at their first permanent duty station.

5.3. Craftsman (7) Level. 1A871X. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1A851X. Also,
experience performing or supervising airborne cryptologic linguist activities. Upgrade training to
the 7-skill level in this specialty consists of holding at least the grade of SSgt and 12 months in
UGT, meeting mandatory requirements listed in the AFECD specialty description, and possessing
minimum language proficiency scores of L2/R2 as measured by the DLPT and/or OPI equivalent
scores, and be recommended by their supervisors. Individuals in this skill level should strive to
achieve L3/R3 (or OPI equivalent) and/or proficiency in additional foreign language(s).
Individuals also should be considered for further crew position upgrade training at this time.
Retrainees are subject to the same training requirements and a minimum of 6 months in UGT.

                                                13
                                     UNCLASSIFIED

5.4. Superintendent (9) Level. Upgrade training to the 9-skill level in this specialty consists of
holding the grade of SMSgt, having supervisor’s recommendation, and meeting mandatory
requirements listed in the AFECD specialty description.

5.5. Aircrew Member Badge. The aircrew wings are a mandatory uniform item for the 1A8X1X
AFSC for Airmen graduating from the 3-level (1A831X) awarding course. Aircrew wings are
only authorized for wear after graduating from the 3-level awarding course. Wear and permanent
awarding requirements of the Basic/Senior/Chief Aircrew Member Badge will be IAW AFI 11-
402 Aviation and Parachutist Service, Aeronautical Ratings and Badges. Failure to complete IQT
is authority for supervisors to recommend revocation of wear of the aircrew member badge.

5.6. Intelligence Occupational Badge. 1A8X1X Airmen are authorized to optionally wear the
basic badge upon award of the 3-skill level and senior badge upon award of the 7-skill level.
1A8X1X Airmen are authorized to optionally wear the master badge as a Master Sergeant (E-7) or
above with five years in the specialty from award of the 1A8X1X AFS. Chief Master Sergeants
(E-9) cross-flowed into 1A800 are authorized to optionally wear the basic badge upon award of
the AFS, senior badge after one year, and master badge after five years.

6. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the AACLA specialty. This CFETP
was developed to include life-cycle (day one through retirement) training requirements for this
specialty. The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet the training
requirements. The strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce duplication of training and
eliminate a disjointed approach to training.

6.1. Foreign Language Proficiency.

6.1.1. Standard. The Director, National Security Agency (DIRNSA) requirement for language
proficiency is L3/R3. The Air Force expectation is that all ACLAs will strive to meet the L3/R3
standard. Currently, the Air Force minimum ACLA proficiency standard is L2/R2 for all DoD
funded acquisition-level languages/dialects that are still operationally relevant as determined by
the CFM. For OPI-only languages or those with only one testing modality, ACLAs must achieve a
level 2 or better. These standards also apply to personnel who were accepted into the AFSC
without attending formal language training at DLIFLC (DLI by-pass). ACLAs who have received
DoD funded acquisition-level training designed to achieve the minimum proficiency standard in
more than one language or dialect are required to meet the testing standards outlined below,
however, in order to maintain the AFSC, they are only required to meet or exceed the minimum
proficiency standard in their primary (shred) language or dialect defined by their CAFSC.
Air Reserve Component (ARC) - Guard and Reserve: ACLAs must maintain the minimum
proficiency standard in the language to which they are assigned in their current duty position. The
waiver authority for the ARC Guard and Reserve is the respective CFM.

6.1.2. Testing. Unless otherwise directed, the DLPT or OPI is the primary method for testing
language proficiency. All SMSgt and below ACLAs must annually test in all languages/dialects
for which they have received language training at the government’s expense. SMSgts are required
to test annually, but are not required to maintain proficiency or enter RLTP. DLI by-pass
members must also test annually (and maintain proficiency if it is the language tied to their
                                                 14
                                     UNCLASSIFIED

CAFSC) in the language for which they were accepted into the AFSC. ACLAs failing to test
within the required timeframe will be considered sub-proficient and entered into RLTP.
Air Reserve Component (ARC) - Guard and Reserve: ACLAs are only required to test
annually in the language assigned in their current duty position though they are welcome to test in
other languages.

6.1.3. Training.

6.1.3.1. Individual Language Training Plan (ILTP). An ILTP for all MSgt and below ACLAs
must be developed within 30 days of arrival at their Formal Training Unit (FTU) and modified at a
minimum within 30 days (at a minimum) after each DLPT/OPI for all languages for which the
ACLA is required to maintain proficiency. The ILTP will be developed and modified by ACLAs
and their supervisors, in coordination with a language mentor and CLPM, to provide a path to
improving an ACLA’s foreign language skills. The ILTP will outline specific weekly/monthly
enhancement training requirements and identify appropriate courses for the member to improve
their skills. A copy of the ILTP will be maintained on the Air Force ISR Agency Language Portal.

6.1.3.2. Weekly/Monthly Enhancement. Requirements for MSgt and below are 12 events per
month/minimum 2 hours per event. An equal balance between global skills and cryptologic skills
training must be maintained. Per AFI 14-125, Cryptologic Skills Program, continuation training
events may be used to meet this requirement, up to six events.

6.1.3.3. Significant Language Training Events (SLTEs). MSgt and below ACLAs will attend a
SLTE within 24 months after award of their apprentice (3) skill level and at least once every 18
months thereafter. If a member is being utilized in a language other than their CAFSC, they
should attend a SLTE. Members who were accepted into the AFSC without attending formal
language training at DLIFLC must also attend a SLTE every 18 months for each of those
languages (e.g. DLI by- pass). Sub-proficient ACLAs must adhere to the SLTE requirements of
the Remedial Language Training Program (RLTP). ACLAs with scores of L3/R3 or better in a
language are required to attend a SLTE for that language at a minimum of every 24 months. Any
unit or location that cannot meet the required SLTE schedule will submit a request for a training
delay to AFISRA/A2F.
Air Reserve Component (ARC) - Guard and Reserve: Those ACLAs with scores below L3/R3
must attend a SLTE for their operationally assigned language every 18 months. Those who
maintain L3/R3 or better may be directed to attend a SLTE every 24 months.

6.1.3.4. Documentation. Aviation Resource Management System (ARMS) aircrew continuation
training (CT) tables are the primary vehicle for establishing and tracking language skills
proficiency maintenance. Specific CT requirements and timelines are defined in AFI 11-2 MDS-
specific instructions (Volume 1, Aircrew Training). Failure to meet CT requirements may result
in loss of MR/CMR status and ultimately, aircrew qualification. Language training will be
documented in the Airman’s Six-Part Folder/AFISRA Language Portal and will include the
following comments: type of training, duration, missed training time due to duty or other
commitments, problem areas, and plans of action to improve weaknesses.

6.1.3.5. Remedial Language Training Program (RLTP). All MSgt and below ACLAs who fail
to meet the minimum proficiency standard in their primary (shred) language/dialect will enter into
                                                15
                                    UNCLASSIFIED

RLTP status. Official entry into the program will be recognized from the date the ACLA records a
sub-proficient score on the DLPT/OPI. A RLTP entry document is highly encouraged to provide
situational awareness to the ACLA and chain of command, however, lack of an entry does not
preclude adherence to the one-year proficiency requirement. ACLAs that PCS while in the RLTP
will transfer in status. An ACLA who is not proficient in the language tied to their CAFSC should
not volunteer for, or be considered for deployments.
ACLAs with only one acquisition-level language: RLTP training window will last no greater
than 18 months unless otherwise specified by CFM.
ACLAs with multiple acquisition-level languages/dialects: ACLAs will enter into RLTP based
on the language/dialect identified by their CAFSC.
Air Reserve Component (ARC) - Guard and Reserve: All MSgt and below ACLAs who do
not meet the minimum proficiency standard will enter RLTP only in the language assigned in
the current duty position; the training window will last no greater than two years unless
otherwise specified by the respective Guard or Reserve CFM.

6.1.3.6. RLTP Process. The RLTP is a two-stage process that lasts until the member achieves
proficiency in that language or the RLTP period expires 18 months later. CLPMs should interview
the supervisor and the ACLA within 10 duty days to determine reasons for failure and provide
guidance. Sub-proficient ACLAs will complete a diagnostic language assessment, if available,
within 60 days of the date they become sub-proficient. Using these diagnostic results, supervisors,
in coordination with Flight Chiefs, SMEs and CLPMs, will revise an ACLA’s existing ILTP upon
entry into the RLTP. The goal of the modified ILTP will be to return ACLAs to the minimum
proficiency standard as soon as possible.
Air Reserve Component (ARC) - Guard and Reserve: Once a sub-proficient DLPT/OPI score
is recorded by the ACLA, the interview should be conducted within 60 days. The ILTP will
include at a minimum 12 hours per month of directed supervised, tailored language training and
one SLTE. Within 120 days of the diagnostic assessment, sub-proficient ACLAs will be
scheduled for a SLTE. ACLAs that retest and attain the minimum proficiency standard will be
removed from the RLTP for that language. The ILTP should be revised at this time to ensure the
ACLA does not again fall below the minimum proficiency standard in that language. An ACLA
who is not proficient in the language tied to their CAFSC shall not volunteer for, or be considered
for deployments. Extenuating circumstances negatively affecting RLTP progress shall be
annotated in training records. The appointed CLPM must work closely with the respective ARC
Guard and Reserve CFM for any exception to this policy.

6.1.3.7. Stage I. Begins from the date the ACLA records a sub-proficient score on the DLPT and
lasts until member achieves proficiency in that language or the RLTP period expires 12 months
later. At a MINIMUM, the individual’s plan will include an increase to 30 hours per month of
directed supervised, tailored language training and one 150-hour SLTE. ACLAs that retest and
attain the minimum proficiency standard will be removed from the RLTP. The ILTP should be
revised at this time to ensure the ACLA does not again fall below the minimum proficiency
standard. Extenuating circumstances negatively affecting RLTP progress shall be annotated in
training records. ACLAs that do not achieve proficiency at the end of Stage I will immediately be
entered into Stage II.

6.1.3.8. Stage II. Lasts until member achieves proficiency in that language or the RLTP period
expires six months later. At a MINIMUM, the individual’s plan will include an increase to 40
                                                16
                                      UNCLASSIFIED

hours per month of directed/supervised, tailored language training and at least one 150-hour
SLTE. ACLAs that retest and attain the minimum proficiency standard will be removed from the
RLTP. The ILTP should be revised at this time to ensure the ACLA does not again fall below the
minimum proficiency standard. Extenuating circumstances negatively affecting RLTP progress
shall be annotated in training records. ACLAs that do not achieve proficiency at the end of the six
month period should be immediately processed for reclassification, separation or waiver
procedures initiated.

6.1.3.9. Post RLTP. Upon completion of remedial status, Airmen remaining below standards
must be immediately processed for reclassification unless otherwise determined by the Career
Field Manager. AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel, contains procedures for these
actions. Reservists who do not achieve language proficiency scores of L2/R2, as measured by the
DLPT, or level 2 for OPI-only languages or those with only one testing modality within 2 years of
enrollment in waiver consideration must request a waiver of mandatory AFSC requirement or
reclassification from HQ AFRC/A2F or be reassigned to HQ ARPC (IRR).

6.1.3.10. Waiver Consideration. In the event of significant extenuating circumstances, the ACLA
may be submitted for waiver consideration to continue in their AFS for an additional six months to
retest and attain proficiency. The commander, CLPMs and SMEs should immediately interview
the supervisor and the ACLA to determine whether a waiver is desired and/or warranted. The
commander will determine whether to submit a waiver request, by evaluating the member’s ILTP,
and provide input to the waiver request. Requests for waivers must be submitted to the Career
Field Manager for approval, within 30 days upon completion of RLTP. If a waiver is granted by
the Career Field Manager, the ACLA will be considered for decertification from mission positions
requiring language proficiency and will not be considered for deployments. For this period, the
ILTP at a minimum will include 40 hours per month of directed, supervised and tailored language
training and a minimum of one 150-hour SLTE. The first SLTE will be scheduled no later than 60
days after the sub-standard DLPT score. The second SLTE must occur within the six month
waiver timeframe. ACLAs that retest at the end of six months and demonstrate further
degradation of language scores will be immediately processed for reclassification or separation.
ACLAs that retest and attain the minimum proficiency standard should be removed from the
RLTP for that language and, if decertified, reinstated as appropriate. An ACLA’s ILTP should be
revised at this time to ensure the ACLA does not again fall below the minimum proficiency
standard.

6.1.3.11. Repeated Failures. Commanders should consider AFSC disqualification for MSgt and
below ACLAs entered into remedial status 3 times within 7 years or less for the same language.
Air Reserve Component (ARC) - Guard and Reserve: Commanders and units will work closely
with the respective CFM for administrative actions for MSgt and below ACLAs.

6.2. Cryptologic/Global Language Training Resources. The NSA National Cryptologic School
(NCS) offers a variety of in-residence, exportable, self-paced, or distance learning courses. These
courses provide training across a broad spectrum of topics. Local training managers maintain
information on course listings.

7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). CCAF is one of several federally chartered
degree-granting institutions; however, it is the only 2-year institution exclusively serving military
                                                 17
                                                UNCLASSIFIED

enlisted personnel. The college is regionally accredited through Air University by the Commission
on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) to award AAS degrees
designed for specific Air Force occupational specialties and is the largest multi-campus
community college in the world. Upon completion of basic military training and assignment to an
AF career field, all enlisted personnel are registered in a CCAF degree program and are afforded
the opportunity to obtain an Associate in Applied Science degree. In order to be awarded, degree
requirements must be successfully completed before the student separates from the Air Force,
retires, or is commissioned as an officer. See the CCAF website for details regarding the AAS
degree programs at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/.

As of 1 January 2011, CCAF changed the title of the degree applicable to the 1NXXX, 1A8XX,
8D000, and 9L000 AFSCs. The new title is Intelligence Studies and Technology. Members who
earned a degree with the previous title, Communications Applications, have already earned the
equivalent degree for their AFSC and ARE NOT eligible to receive the Intelligence Studies and
Technology degree.

7.1. CCAF Degree Requirements. All enlisted airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF
program. Prior to completing an associate degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the following
requirements must be met:

                                                       Semester Hours

       Technical Education .................................................................................. 24
       Leadership, Management, and Military Studies .......................................... 6
       Physical Education ...................................................................................... 4
       General Education ................................................................................... 15*
       Program Elective ..................................................................................... 15*
                                                                                                    Total: 64

    *Note: The Paralegal degree requires 18 semester hours (SH) of general education (addition
    of a 3 SH general education elective) and 12 SH of program elective.

Attaining the journeyman (5) level is waived for students in occupational specialties that do not
have journeyman levels (3N2X1, 3S1X1, 3S3X1, 7S0X1).

7.1.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): Completion of the career field apprentice
course satisfies some semester hours of the technical education requirements. A minimum of 24
semester hours of Technical Core subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining semester
hours applied from Technical Core/Technical Elective courses. Some academic degree programs
have specific technical education requirements. Refer to the CCAF General Catalog for specific
degree requirements for your specialty.

7.1.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Enlisted
Professional Military Education (EPME) and/or civilian management courses.

7.1.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of
Basic Military Training.


                                                                 18
                                      UNCLASSIFIED

7.1.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement with the
definitions of applicable General Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF General
Catalog.

7.1.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects/courses, including
natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Nine semester hours of CCAF degree
applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied. See the
CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science for this specialty.

7.1.6. Residency Requirement (16 Semester Hours): Satisfied by credit earned for coursework
completed in an affiliated school or through internship credit awarded for progression in an Air
Force occupation specialty. Enlisted members attending Army, Navy, and/or DOD initial or
advanced training do not receive resident credit since these schools are not part of the CCAF
system. However, the college awards proficiency credit to AF enlisted members completing these
courses. Note: Physical education credit awarded for basic military training is not resident credit.

7.2. Professional Certifications. Certifications assist the professional development of our
Airmen by broadening their knowledge and skills. Additionally, specific certifications may be
award collegiate credit by CCAF and civilian colleges, saving time and Air Force tuition
assistance funds. It also helps airmen to be better prepared for transition to civilian life. To learn
more about professional certifications and certification programs offered by CCAF, visit
http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp. In addition to its associate degree program, CCAF
offers the following certification programs and resources:

7.2.1. CCAF Instructor Certification (CIC) Program. CCAF offers the three-tiered CIC
Program for qualified instructors teaching at CCAF affiliated schools who have demonstrated a
high level of professional accomplishment. The CIC is a professional credential that recognizes
the instructor's extensive faculty development training, education and qualification required to
teach a CCAF course, and formally acknowledges the instructor's practical teaching experience.

7.2.2. CCAF Instructional Systems Development (ISD) Certification Program. CCAF offers
the ISD Certification Program for qualified curriculum developers and managers who are formally
assigned at CCAF affiliated schools to develop and manage CCAF collegiate courses. The ISD
Certification is a professional credential that recognizes the curriculum developer’s or manager’s
extensive training, education, qualifications and experience required to develop and manage
CCAF courses. The certification also recognizes the individual’s ISD qualifications and
experience in planning, developing, implementing and managing instructional systems.

7.2.3. CCAF Professional Manager Certification (PMC). CCAF offers the PMC Program for
qualified Air Force NCO’s. The PMC is a professional credential awarded by CCAF that formally
recognizes an individual’s advanced level of education and experience in leadership and
management, as well as professional accomplishments. The program provides a structured
professional development track that supplements Enlisted Professional Military Education
(EPME) and Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP).


                                                 19
                                     UNCLASSIFIED

7.2.4. CCAF Credentialing and Education Research Tool (CERT). CCAF implemented
CERT to increase awareness of professional development opportunities applicable to Air Force
occupational specialties. It is a valuable resource for Air Force enlisted personnel and provides
information related to specific AFSCs, such as: AFSC description; civilian occupation
equivalencies (US Department of Labor); CCAF degree programs; national professional
certifications; certifying agencies; and professional organizations.




                                                20
                                                UNCLASSIFIED

 8. Career Field Flow Charts.

                                       Enlisted Education and Training Path
                                                                   Grade Requirements
                                                             Earliest   Air Force    1A8X1X      High Year
 Education and Training Requirements                 Rank
                                                             Sew-on     Average      Average
                                                                                                 of Tenure
                                                                                                   (HYT)
Basic Military Training School (BMTS)                 AB
Apprentice Technical School                          Amn    6 months
(3-Skill Level)
Upgrade To Journeyman
(5-Skill Level)
- Minimum 12 months on-the-job training              A1C     16-28                               *10 years
- Minimum 9 months on-the-job training for
                                                                        3 years      3 years
                                                     SrA     months                             SRB Airmen
  retrainees
- Complete appropriate CDC
Airman Leadership School (ALS)
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time in
  service or be a SSgt selectee (ARC: Must be
  a SrA with 42 months time in service to
  accomplish ALS by correspondence)
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
  SSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only)

Upgrade To Craftsman
(7-Skill Level)                                                          4.45
- Minimum rank of SSgt                               SSgt    3 years                4.7 years   15 years
- 12 months OJT                                                          years
- 6 months OJT for retrainees

Noncommissioned Officer Academy
(NCOA)
- Must be a TSgt or TSgt selectee                                        10.6
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for          TSgt    5 years                8.3 years   20 years
  MSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only)                                         years
- Resident or correspondence graduation is a
  prerequisite for MSgt sew-on (ARC Only)

USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)
- Must be a CMSgt selectee, SMSgt, SMSgt
  selectee, or a MSgt selected to attend                                 15.6
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for          MSgt    ndyears                13.5 years 24 years
  SMSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only)                                        years
- Resident or correspondence graduation is a
  prerequisite for SMSgt sew-on (ARC Only)

Upgrade to Superintendent                                                19.3
(9-Skill level)                                     SMSgt    11 years               18 years    26 years
- Minimum rank of SMSgt.
                                                                         years
Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM)
- Minimum rank of CMSgt                                                  22.3
- Completed SNCO Academy (Active Duty Only)
                                                    CMSgt    14 years               20.5 years 30 years
                                                                         years
- Chief Leadership Course (CLC)

Data based on CY12 testing cycle
                                Figure 8-1. Enlisted Education and Training Path

                                                       21
                                   UNCLASSIFIED




                    Figure 8-2. 1A8X1X Initial Skills Training Pipeline.

8.1. The flow outlined in Figure 2 (above) represents the formal training courses required for
personnel entering and becoming fully qualified in the Airborne Cryptologic Language Analyst
Specialty. The locations, course lengths, and titles are subject to change. Changes will be
updated in the Education Training Course Announcement by the course owner.

8.2. The course flow has been developed and agreed upon by the MFMs to minimize days
students are awaiting training and to ensure survival training is received prior to Initial
Qualification Training—minimizing the impact of not having the prerequisites completed before
entering weapons system training.




                                              22
                                                                                                UNCLASSIFIED


                                                                                       1A8X1X - Cryptologic Language Analyst
                                                   Apprentice                  Journeyman                             Craftsman                 Superintendent               CEM
                                                  AB, Amn, A1C               SrA                 SSgt              TSgt             MSgt               SMSgt                 CMSgt
    Rank




                                                     Basic Aircrew Wings/Intel Badge        Senior Aircrew Wings/Intel Badge              Chief Aircrew Wings/Master Intel Badge
    Badges




                                                                     Airmen Leadership                        NCO Academy       AF, Sister Service or Joint Special   Chief’s Leadership
                                                                    School                                                      Operations SNCO Academy               Course (CLC)
                                                                                                              -TSgt or
                                                                    - SSgt-select or SrA                      TSgt-select       - MSgt, MSgt-select or TSgt with        -CMSgt-select
                                                                    with 48 months TIS                                          two years TIG for non-resident
                                                                                                              -Required                                               Leadership
                                                                    - Required to sew on                      to sew on         - MSgt or SMSgt for resident          Development Program
                                                                    SSgt                                      MSgt
    PME




                                                                                                                                 - Required to sew on SMSgt
                                                                                                                                                                      Gettysburg Leadership
                                                                                                                               (Active Duty only)
                                                                                                                                                                      Experience
                                                                                                                                Senior Enlisted Joint PME
                                                                                                                                                                      Enterprise Leadership
                                                                                                                               (SEJPME)
                                                                                                                                                                      Seminar
                                                                                                                                   ‐ TSgt‐select through CMSgt
                                                                                                                                                                      Enterprise
                                                                                                                                                                      Management Seminar

                                                  3-Level – 1A831X 5-Level – 1A851X          7-Level – 1A871X                                     9-Level – 1A890         CEM – 1A800

                                                  - Awarded upon    - UGT: 12 months/        - Minimum rank of SSgt                               - Rank of SMSgt
    Upgrade Training




                                                  graduation from   Retrainees -9 months
                                                  Initial Skills                             - UGT: 12 months/
                                                  Pipeline
                                                                                             Retrainees-6 months
                                                                    - CDC completion
                                                                                             - Supervisor recommendation
                                                                    - Supervisor
                                                                    recommendation


                                                                                       MCCEP – Military Cryptologic Continuing Education Program

                                                                    NSA Internship Programs(3 years each)
                        Cryptologic Development




                                                                     MLAP – Military Language Analyst Program

                                                                     MECCAP – Middle Enlisted Cryptologic Career Advancement Program
Technical Development




                                                                                                                                SEIMSC – Senior Enlisted
                                                                                                                                Intelligence Master Skills Course
                                                                                                        CCAF – Associates Degree
                        Degree Programs




                                                                                                    DLI Language Associates Degree

                                                                                             National Intelligence University Degree Programs

                                                                                            Air Force Institute of Technology Degree Programs


                                                                            Figure 8-3. 1A8X1X Career Development Path.


                                                                                                                23
                                     UNCLASSIFIED

Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements

9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this specialty are defined in terms of tasks and
knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each
skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award,
and retention of each skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements are
identified in the STS at Part II, Sections A and B of this CFETP.

10. Specialty Qualifications.

10.1. Apprentice Level Training.

10.1.1. Specialty Qualification.

10.1.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of a designated language; role and purpose of
cryptologic support operations; joint service relationships and operational concepts; organization
of national intelligence structure; tasking strategies; radio communications operations theory;
communications techniques; operation of acquisition, recording, and processing equipment;
communications networks; formats, terminology, and theory of traffic analysis; organization of
designated military forces; geography, reporting principles, procedures, and format; procedures
for processing and distributing intelligence data; functions and operations of electronic
equipment; basic computer operations, and methods for handling, distributing, and safeguarding
information.

10.1.1.2. Education. Completion of high school or general education development (GED)
equivalency is mandatory for entry into this AFSC. Also, completion of courses in foreign
languages, mathematics, typing, and computers is desirable.

10.1.1.3. Training. Completion of the Aircrew Fundamental Course at Lackland AFB, TX is
mandatory for pipeline and non-aviation service cross training students. Completion of a
designated airborne cryptologic linguist course is mandatory for award of the 3-skill level AFSC.

10.1.1.4. Experience. Not applicable.

10.1.1.5. Other. Physical qualification for aircrew duty according to AFI 48-123, Volume 3,
Medical Examinations and Standards Volume 3 – Flying and Special Operational Duty, Flying
Class III medical standards for entry, award, and retention of this AFSC is mandatory.
Qualification for aviation service according to AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, and AFI 11-
402, Aviation and Parachutist Service, Aeronautical Ratings and Badges, for entry, award and
retention of this AFSC are mandatory. For entry into this specialty, no record or history of
temporomandibular joint pain or disorder. A minimum score of 105 on the Defense Language
Aptitude Battery (DLAB) or demonstrated proficiency in a DoD-trained acquisition language with
an L2/R2 or better on the Defense Language Proficiency Test (DLPT) oror Oral Proficiency
Interview (OPI) equivalent for which accession was approved by AF Career Field Manager (e.g.
DLI by-pass). For award and retention of AFSCs 1A8XX eligibility for a top secret clearance
according to current USAF and DoD policy. Note: When required for a current or future
assignment, must successfully complete a polygraph examination and meet all other customer
access eligibility requirements.


                                                24
                                     UNCLASSIFIED


10.1.2. Training Sources and Resources. Completion of the Airborne Cryptologic Language
Analyst course and SERE satisfies the knowledge and training requirements specified in the
specialty qualification section (above) for award of the 3-skill level. Completion (or by-pass
approved by the AFCFM) of a DLI language course, the Aircrew Fundamentals Course and SERE
are mandatory for all 1A8X1X personnel.

10.1.3. Implementation. Entry into training is accomplished through initial accessions from
BMT or through retraining from any AFSC. After graduation from the Airborne Cryptologic
Language Analyst course, IQT starts when an individual is assigned to their first duty position.
Thereafter, upgrade training is initiated anytime an individual is assigned duties they are not
qualified to perform.

10.2. Journeyman Level Training.

10.2.1. Specialty Qualification. All qualifications for AFSC 1A831X apply to the 1A851X
requirements.

10.2.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to knowledge required for the 3-level and other qualifications
as listed above, an individual must possess the knowledge and skills necessary to perform
airborne cryptologic operations. Knowledge is mandatory of air tasking orders; receiving,
recording, and relaying operational threat data. Completion of qualification criteria in current
assigned aircraft is mandatory.

10.2.1.2. Education. To assume the rank of SSgt, individuals must be a graduate of the Airman
Leadership School (ALS).

10.2.1.3. Training. The following are mandatory for award of the 5-skill level:

10.2.1.3.1. Completion of the Intelligence Fundamentals 1NX51 CDC and Airborne Cryptologic
Analyst 1A851X CDC.

10.2.1.3.2. Completion of 12 months OJT/9 months for retrainees.

10.2.1.3.3. Recommendation by the supervisor.

10.2.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1A831X.

10.2.1.5. Other. Physical qualification for aircrew duty according to AFI 48-123, Volume 3,
Medical Examinations and Standards Volume 3 – Flying and Special Operational Duty, Flying
ACLAs III medical standards for entry of this AFSC is mandatory. Qualification for aviation
service according to, and AFI 11-402, Aviation and Parachutist Service, Aeronautical Ratings
and Badges, for entry, award and retention of this AFSC are mandatory. For entry into this
specialty, no record or history of temporomandibular joint pain or disorder. A minimum score of
105 on the Defense Language Aptitude Battery (DLAB) or demonstrated proficiency in a DoD-
trained acquisition language with an L2 / R2 or better on the Defense Language Proficiency Test



                                                25
                                     UNCLASSIFIED

(DLPT)or Oral Proficiency Interview (OPI) equivalent for which accession was approved by AF
Career Field Manager (e.g. DLI by-pass). . For award and retention of AFSCs 1A8XX
eligibility for a top secret clearance according to current USAF and DoD policy. Note: When
required for a current or future assignment, must successfully complete a polygraph examination
and meet all other customer access eligibility requirements.

10.2.2. Training Sources and Resources. Completion of the Intelligence Fundamentals 1NX51
CDC and Airborne Cryptologic Analyst 1A851X CDC satisfies the knowledge requirements
specified in the specialty qualification section (above) for award of the 5-skill level.

10.2.3. Implementation. Entry into journeyman upgrade is accomplished upon arrival at first
permanent duty station. Locations with an FTU will defer upgrade training enrollment and CDC
order until after completion of the FTU and assignment to the first permanent duty station.

10.3. Craftsman Level Training.

10.3.1. Specialty Qualification. All 1A831X and 1A851X qualifications apply to the 1A871X
requirements.

10.3.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to knowledge required for the 5-skill level and other
qualifications as listed above, an individual must possess the aircrew management principles,
knowledge, and supervisory skills necessary to supervise personnel, and operate and maintain
Airborne Operations Systems.

10.3.1.2. Education. To assume the rank of MSgt, individuals must be graduates of the NCO
Academy.

10.3.1.3. Training. Completion of the following requirements is mandatory for award of the 7-
skill level:

10.3.1.3.1. Minimum rank of SSgt and 12 months OJT/6 months for retrainees.

10.3.1.3.2. Hold a 5-skill level in the AFSC.

10.3.1.3.3. Recommendation by the supervisor for award of the craftsman AFSC.

10.3.1.4. Experience. Qualification in, and possession of, AFSC 1A851X.

10.3.1.5. Other. Physical qualification for aircrew duty according to AFI 48-123, Volume 3,
Medical Examinations and Standards Volume 3 – Flying and Special Operational Duty, Flying
ACLAs III medical standards for entry of this AFSC is mandatory. Qualification for aviation
service according to, and AFI 11-402, Aviation and Parachutist Service, Aeronautical Ratings
and Badges, for entry, award and retention of this AFSC are mandatory. For entry into this
specialty, no record or history of temporomandibular joint pain or disorder. A minimum score of
105 on the Defense Language Aptitude Battery (DLAB) or demonstrated proficiency in a DoD-
trained acquisition language with an L2 / R2 or better on the Defense Language Proficiency Test



                                                26
                                     UNCLASSIFIED

(DLPT)or Oral Proficiency Interview (OPI) equivalent for which accession was approved by AF
Career Field Manager (e.g. DLI by-pass). For award and retention of AFSCs 1A8XX eligibility
for a top secret clearance according to current USAF and DoD policy. Note: When required for a
current or future assignment, must successfully complete a polygraph test.

10.3.2. Training Sources and Resources. The STS identifies tasks required for qualification.
Upgrade and qualification training are provided by qualified trainers using available aids written
for the duty position, program to be managed, or equipment to be used.

10.3.3. Implementation. Entry into 7-level upgrade is effective September 1 each year if an
individual is selected for promotion to E-5. The only exception is STEP.
Air Reserve Component (ARC) - Guard and Reserve: Members may be entered into 7-level
upgrade training upon promotion to E-5.

10.4. Superintendent Level Training.

10.4.1. Specialty Qualifications.

10.4.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to knowledge required for the 7-skill level qualification, an
individual must possess advanced skills and knowledge of concepts and principles in the effective
management of Airborne ISR operations and personnel. Knowledge is mandatory of aircraft
emergency equipment and procedures; ISR operations and related Cryptologic support to national
agencies, service Cryptologic elements and theater elements; joint service relationships and
operations concepts; radio frequency theory; radio communications networks, operations, and
techniques; collection and processing procedures; signals and traffic analysis techniques; tasking
strategies; reporting concepts, formats and procedures; mission planning and management; basic
computer and electronic equipment operations; and methods for handling, distributing and
safeguarding information.

10.4.1.2. Education. To assume the grade of SMSgt, individuals must be an in-residence
graduate of the USAF Senior NCO Academy, Sister Service Senior Enlisted Academies, or Joint
Special Operations Forces Senior Enlisted Academy.
Air Reserve Component (ARC) - Guard and Reserve: Members may complete SNCOA
through an in-residence or correspondence course.

10.4.1.3. Training. Completion of all training tasks is mandatory.

10.4.1.4. Experience. For AFSC 1A890, qualification in and possession of AFSC 1A871X or
1A872.

10.4.1.5. Other. Physical qualification for aircrew duty according to AFI 48-123 Medical
Examinations and Standards, Class III medical standards for entry, award, and retention of this
AFSC is mandatory. Qualification for aviation service according to AFIs 11-401 and 11-402 for
entry, award and retention of this AFSC are mandatory. For entry into this specialty, no record or
history of temporomandibular joint pain or disorder. For award and retention of AFSCs 1A8XX,
completion and favorable adjudication of a current Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI)



                                                27
                                    UNCLASSIFIED

or Top Secret Reinvestigation according to current USAF and DoD policy.

10.4.2. Training Sources and Resources. The STS identifies tasks required for qualification in
the individual's duty position.

10.4.3. Implementation. Entry into upgrade training is initiated when an individual possesses the
7-skill level and assumes the rank of SMSgt.

Section D - Resource Constraints

11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints, which preclude optimal/desired
training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower.
Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what effect
each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section are actions required,
office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource constraints will be
reviewed and updated at least annually.

12. Three-Level Training:

12.1. Constraints. None

12.1.1. Impact. None

12.1.2. Resources Required. None

12.1.3. Action Required. None

12.2 OPR/Target Completion Date. Not applicable.

13. Five-Level Training.

13.1. Constraints. None

13.1.1. Impact. None

13.1.2. Resources Required. None

13.1.3 Action Required. None

13.1.4. OPR/Target Completion Date: None

14. Seven-Level Training.

14.1. Constraints. None

14.1.2. Impact. None



                                               28
                                   UNCLASSIFIED


14.1.3. Resources Required. None

14.1.4. Action Required. None

14.1.5. OPR/Target Completion Date. None

Section E – Transitional Training Guide.

NOTE: There are currently no transitional training requirements. This area is reserved.




                                            29
PART II

Section A – Specialty Training Standard (STS)

1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC for classes beginning 1
Feb 2014.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, AIR FORCE TRAINING PROGRAM, this STS:

2.1. Lists Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical References necessary for Airmen to perform duties
in a specialty. Column 1 identifies the most common tasks, knowledge, and technical references
(TR) necessary for Airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level. All 3-level line items in
the STS are trained during technical school. Column 2 lists the core/tasks identified by the
AFCFM. In addition to these core tasks, all ACLAs have an inherent core task to maintain language
proficiency at a minimum of L2/R2, as measured by the DLPT, or level 2 for OPI-only languages
or those with only one testing modality.

2.2. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of task and
knowledge training requirements. When placed in the Six Part Folder, the STS serves as a Job
Qualification Standard (JQS). Task certification must show a certification/completed date. All other
documentation should be performed in accordance with AFI 36-2201.

2.3. Serves as a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman
Promotion System (WAPS) if there is a Specialty Knowledge Test (SKT) for that AFSC/Skill
Level. Tests are developed at the AF Occupational Measurement Squadron (AFOMS) by senior NCOs
with extensive practical experience in their career fields. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter
areas judged by test development team members to be most appropriate for promotion to higher grades.
Questions are based on study references listed in the WAPS study catalog. Individual responsibilities are in
AFI 36-2606, Chapter 14, U.S. Air Force Reenlistment, Retention, and NCO Status Programs. WAPS is not
applicable to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve.

3. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to indicate the level of
training and knowledge provided by resident training and career development courses.

4. Recommendations. Report STS inadequacies and/or unsatisfactory performance of individual
course graduates to 316TRS/DOE. A 24-hour Customer Service Information Line (CSIL) has
been installed for the supervisor’s convenience to identify demonstrated over- or under-training
on performance/knowledge items listed in the training standard. For a quick response to any
training concerns, call CSIL, DSN: 312-477-3350, anytime day or night, or send an email to:
17TRG.ccme@goodfellow.af.mil. Please reference specific STS line items.




                                                       30
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL                                ROBERT P. OTTO, Lt Gen, USAF
                                         DCS, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance




5 Attachments:
1. Qualitative Requirements
2. 1AXXX Specialty Training Standard
3. 1NXXX Specialty Training Standard
4. 1A831X Specialty Training Standard
5. 1A851X Specialty Training Standard




                                                 31
STS 1A8X1X                                                                                                                                 XXX 2013
                                            THIS BLOCK FOR IDENTIFICATION PURPOSES ONLY
                                                                        NAME OF TRAINEE
PRINTED NAME (Last, First Middle Initial)                                                        INITIALS (Written)   SSAN (Last 4)


                                      PRINTED NAME OF CERTIFYING OFFICIAL AND WRITTEN INITIALS
N/I                                                                               N/I


N/I                                                                               N/I


N/I                                                                               N/I


N/I                                                                               N/I


N/I                                                                               N/I


N/I                                                                               N/I




                                                          QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     PROFICIENCY CODE KEY
                              SCALE
                              VALUE         DEFINITION: The Individual
                                            Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (EXTREMELY
                                  1
                                            LIMITED)
     TASK                         2         Can do most parts of the task. Needs help only on hardest parts. (PARTIALLY PROFICIENT)
 PERFORMANCE
    LEVELS                        3         Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (COMPETENT)

                                  4         Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task. (HIGHLY
                                            PROFICIENT)
                                  a         Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (NOMENACLATURE)

        **TASK                    b         Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (PROCEDURES)
      KNOWLEDGE
                                  c         Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed. (OPERATING
        LEVELS                              PRINCIPLES)
                                  d         Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (ADVANCED THEORY)

                                  A         Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (FACTS)

      ***SUBJECT                  B         Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (PRINCIPLES)
      KNOWLEDGE
        LEVELS                    C         Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (ANALYSIS)

                                  D         Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (EVALUATION)

                                                              EXPLANATIONS
       **   A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a
            specific task. (Examples: b and 1b)
       ***  A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific
            task, or for a subject common to several tasks.
       --   This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.
       X    This mark is used alone in course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.
       @    This mark is used to show that training is conducted by Aerospace Physiology during Aircrew Fundamentals.
       @@ This mark is used to show the five general education requirements by CLEP/DANTES (pass or fail) towards CCAF degree
       %    This mark is used to show that for these tasks, the proficiency level is dropped to A for courses where a performance
            measurement is not possible
       +    This mark is used to show that for these tasks, the proficiency level is dropped to 1a/A for the Non-Target Course
       #    This mark is used to show that these tasks are not applicable to the Non-Target Course
       NOTE: All task and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during wartime.

 Attachment 1




                                                                                 32
                                                                                                                              4. Proficiency Codes Used to
                                                                3. Certification for OJT
                                                                                                                                 Indicate Training Provided

                                                                  A              B            C          D          E                                3-Level                                          5-Level
                                                      2. Core
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References          Tasks/




                                                                                                                              Aircrew Fundamentals




                                                                                                                                                                             1A831X Initial Skills
                                                                                                                                                        Fundamentals (1NX)
                                                      Wartime




                                                                                                                                  (1AX) Course




                                                                                                                                                            Intelligence
                                                      Skills




                                                                                                                                                              Course




                                                                                                                                                                                  Course
                                                                                            Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                                                                          1NX51   1A851X
                                                                Tng Start    Tng Complete
                                                                                            Initials   Initials   Initials                                                                            CDC     CDC




                                                Attachment 2: STS – 1AXXX Common Core
1. CAREER LADDER PROGRESSION
    TR: AFI 36-2101, AFI 36-2104,
    AFI 11-401, AF Mission Directives
1.1. Progression within 1AXXX AFSC                                                                                                A
1.2. Duties within 1AXXX AFSCs                                                                                                    A
1.3. Total Force                                                                                                                  A
1.3.1. MAJCOM Missions                                                                                                            A
1.4. Joint / Combined Service                                                                                                     A
2. SECURITY
   TR: DODR 5200.1, AFI 10-1101,
   31-201v2, 31-401, 33-208, 33-211,
   10-701
2.1. COMSEC relating to aircrew                                                                                                   A
2.2. OPSEC relating to aircrew                                                                                                    A
2.3. Perform Anti-Hijacking / Anti-Terrorism
                                                                                                                                1a
Procedures
2.4. Information Security relating to aircrew                                                                                     A
2.5. Physical Security relating to aircrew                                                                                        A
2.5.1. Perform flight line security procedures                                                                                  1a
3. CREW RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
   (CRM) TR: AFI-11-290
3.1. Crew Resource Management Fundamentals                                                                                        A
3.2. Communication
3.2.1. Terms and definitions                                                                                                      B
3.2.2. Radio discipline                                                                                                           A
4. AVIATION SAFETY / AF OCCUPATIONAL
   SAFETY AND HEALTH (AFOSH)
   PROGRAM
   TR: AFI 32-7806, 91-201, 91-202, 91-301, 91-
   302, 91-303, 123-1, AFMAN 24-204, AFOSH
   Std 91-25, 91-66, 91-100, AFPAM 91-121
4.1. Aviator hazards
4.1.1. Engine air intake and exhaust                                                                                            A
4.1.1.1. Apply appropriate safety measures                                                                                      1a
4.1.2. High intensity sound                                                                                                     A
4.1.2.1. Apply appropriate safety measures                                                                                      1a
4.1.3. Rotor / propeller planes of rotation                                                                                     A
4.1.3.1. Apply appropriate safety measures                                                                                      1a




                                                                            33
                                                                                                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used to
                                                           3. Certification for OJT
                                                                                                                        Indicate Training Provided

                                                            A           B            C          D          E                                3-Level                                         5-Level
                                                 2. Core
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References     Tasks/




                                                                                                                     Aircrew Fundamentals




                                                                                                                                                                   1A831X Initial Skills
                                                                                                                                              Fundamentals (1NX)
                                                 Wartime




                                                                                                                         (1AX) Course




                                                                                                                                                  Intelligence
                                                 Skills




                                                                                                                                                    Course




                                                                                                                                                                        Course
                                                            Tng                    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                                                                         1NX51
                                                                    Tng Complete                                                                                                                      1A851X CDC
                                                            Start                  Initials   Initials   Initials                                                                           CDC




4.1.4. Antenna radiation                                                                                               A
4.1.4.1. Apply appropriate safety measures                                                                             1a
4.1.5. Aircraft Electrical System                                                                                      A
4.1.5.1. Apply appropriate safety measures                                                                             1a
4.1.6. Ground support equipment                                                                                        A
4.1.6.1. Apply appropriate safety measures                                                                             1a
4.2. Weather                                                                                                           A
4.3. Bird Avoidance Strike Hazard (BASH)                                                                                 A
Program
4.4. Hazardous Materials (HAZMAT)                                                                                        A
4.5. Foreign Object Damage (FOD) hazards /
                                                                                                                         A
prevention
4.6. High intensity light (Strobes)                                                                                      A
5. PUBLICATIONS
   TR: AFI 11-215, 33-360, 37-160v1, T.O. 00-
   20, 00-5-1/2, DODR 4500-32v1, 11-202v2
5.1. Air Force Technical Orders (T.O.s)                                                                               B
5.1.1. Use T.O.s                                                                                                      2b
5.1.2. Post changes                                                                                                   2b
5.2. Publications                                                                                                     B
5.2.1. Use publications                                                                                               2b
5.2.2. Post changes                                                                                                   2b
5.3. Flight Publication Improvement Reports                                                                           B
5.3.1. Complete flight publication improvement                                                                        2b
report (AF Form 847)
5.4. AFTO/IMT 781 series                                                                                              B
5.4.1. Use AFTO IMT 781A                                                                                              1a
5.5. Flight Crew Information File (FCIF)                                                                              B
5.5.1. Use Flight Crew Information File (FCIF)                                                                        2b
6. AIRCREW/FLIGHT MANAGEMENT
   TR: AFPD 11-4, AFI 11-401, 11-402, 11-412,
   11-202, 38-201, 48-123v3
6.1. Responsibilities of HQ USAF and                                                                                      --
MAJCOM Aircrew Managers
6.2. Flight authorization                                                                                                A
6.3. Aviation Resource Management (ARM)
6.3.1. Host Aviation Resource Management                                                                                 A
(HARM)




                                                                     34
                                                                                                                         4. Proficiency Codes Used to
                                                               3. Certification for OJT
                                                                                                                            Indicate Training Provided

                                                                A           B            C          D          E                                3-Level                                         5-Level
                                                     2. Core
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References         Tasks/




                                                                                                                         Aircrew Fundamentals




                                                                                                                                                                       1A831X Initial Skills
                                                                                                                                                  Fundamentals (1NX)
                                                     Wartime




                                                                                                                             (1AX) Course




                                                                                                                                                      Intelligence
                                                     Skills




                                                                                                                                                        Course




                                                                                                                                                                            Course
                                                                Tng                    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                                                                         1NX51   1A851X
                                                                        Tng Complete
                                                                Start                  Initials   Initials   Initials                                                                           CDC     CDC




6.3.2. Squadron Aviation Resource Management                                                                                 A
(SARM)
6.4. Flight Records Folder (FRF)                                                                                             A
6.5. Aviation service, aeronautical ratings,                                                                                 A
badges
6.6. Flight pay / Career Enlisted Flight Incentive                                                                           B
Pay (CEFIP) / gates
6.7. Flight medicine
6.7.1. Flight surgeon functions                                                                                              B
6.7.2. Grounding / Duties Not Including Flying                                                                               B
(DNIF) status
6.8. Aircrew member Responsibilities
6.8.1. Crew rest                                                                                                             A
6.8.2. Restrictions                                                                                                          A
7. AIRCREW TRAINING / SUPERVISION
   TR: AFI 11-2MDS V1, 11-202v1/2, 36- 2101,
   36-2201, Education & Training Course
   Announcements (ETCA)
7.1. Physiological Training                                                                                                @
7.2. General education requirements                                                                                      @@
7.3. Initial qualification training                                                                                          A
7.4. Mission qualification training                                                                                          A
7.5. Continuation training / maintaining currency                                                                            A
7.6. Requalification training                                                                                                A
7.7. Flight Training Records                                                                                                 A
7.8. Standardization/Evaluation functions                                                                                    A
7.9. Flight Evaluation Folder (FEF)                                                                                          A
7.10. Life support equipment                                                                                                 A
8. AERODYNAMICS
   TR: -1 T.O., AFH 11-203v1, T.O. 1-1B-50
8.1. Fixed wing                                                                                                              A
8.2. Rotary wing                                                                                                             A
8.3. Aircraft general (basic construction)                                                                                   A
8.4. Flight controls                                                                                                         A
8.5. Instruments                                                                                                             A
8.6. Aircraft Weight and Balance
8.6.1. Principles                                                                                                            A




                                                                35
                                                                                                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used to
                                                         3. Certification for OJT
                                                                                                                      Indicate Training Provided

                                                          A           B            C          D          E                                3-Level                                         5-Level
                                               2. Core
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References   Tasks/




                                                                                                                   Aircrew Fundamentals




                                                                                                                                                                 1A8X31 Initial Skills
                                                                                                                                            Fundamentals (1NX)
                                               Wartime




                                                                                                                       (1AX) Course




                                                                                                                                                Intelligence
                                               Skills




                                                                                                                                                  Course




                                                                                                                                                                      Course
                                                          Tng                    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                                                                         1NX51   1A851X
                                                                  Tng Complete
                                                          Start                  Initials   Initials   Initials                                                                           CDC     CDC




8.6.2. Apply concepts                                                                                                1a
8.6.3. Solve math problems                                                                                           1a
9. AIRCREW ACTIVITIES
   TR: -1 T.O., -9 T.O, AFI 10-707, 1-202
9.1. Mission briefings                                                                                               A
9.1.1. Mission planning documents                                                                                    A
9.2. Professional Equipment                                                                                          A
9.3. Perform egress procedures                                                                                       1a
9.4. Identify aircraft emergency equipment                                                                           1a
9.5. Oxygen requirements                                                                                             A
9.6. Joint Spectrum Interference Resolution
(JSIR) / Air Force Spectrum Interference                                                                               A
Resolution (AFSIR)
10. AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS / EQUIPMENT
    TR: -1 T.O., MAJCOM guidance and T.O.
    00-25-172, AFI 11-202
10.1. Electrical                                                                                                       A
10.2. Hydraulic                                                                                                        A
10.3. Environmental                                                                                                    A
10.4. Communication                                                                                                    A
10.5. Oxygen                                                                                                           A
10.6. Fuel                                                                                                             A
10.7. Concurrent servicing                                                                                             A
10.8. Fleet Service equipment                                                                                          A
10.9. Engines                                                                                                          A
10.10. Navigation lighting                                                                                             A




                                                          36
                                                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used to
                                                                                 3. Certification for OJT
                                                                                                                                              Indicate Training Provided

                                                                                  A           B            C          D          E                                3-Level                                         5-Level
                                                                       2. Core
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References                           Tasks/




                                                                                                                                           Aircrew Fundamentals




                                                                                                                                                                                         1A831X Initial Skills
                                                                                                                                                                    Fundamentals (1NX)
                                                                       Wartime




                                                                                                                                               (1AX) Course




                                                                                                                                                                        Intelligence
                                                                       Skills




                                                                                                                                                                          Course




                                                                                                                                                                                              Course
                                                                                  Tng                    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                                                                         1NX51   1A851X
                                                                                          Tng Complete
                                                                                  Start                  Initials   Initials   Initials                                                                           CDC     CDC




                                                                    Attachment 3: STS – 1NXXX Core
 1.    (U) SAFETY
1.1. (U) Safety                                                                                                                                                         A
       TR: AFI 91-202
2.     (U) SECURITY


2.1. (U) Information Security                                             C                                                                                             A                                        B
      TR: AFI 31-401 & AFI 33-129 AFGM1.4, DODM 5200.01V3 & V4
2.2. (U) Communications Security
       (COMSEC)                                                           C                                                                                             A                                        B
      TR: AFI 33-201V1
2.3. (U) Operations Security (OPSEC)                                      C                                                                                             A                                        B
      TR: AFI 10-701
2.4. (U) Physical Security                                                C                                                                                             A                                        B
        TR: TR: AFI 31-102
2.5. (U) Personnel Security                                               C                                                                                             A                                        B
       TR: AFI 31-501
2.6. (U) Emission Security                                                C                                                                                             A                                        B
       TR: AFI 33-200, AFI 31-102
2.7. (U) Computer Security (COMPUSEC)                                     C                                                                                             A                                        B
       TR: AFI 33-200, AFSSI 8520, AFMAN 33-282
2.8. (U) Intelligence Oversight Program                                   C                                                                                             A
       TR: AFI 14-104, EO 12333
2.9. (U) SCI Classification
       TR: DoD 5200.1-R, EO 12958-IS00,                                   C                                                                                             A                                        B
       http://www.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/ssc/capco/default.aspx
2.10. (U) Derivative Security Classifications
        TR: DoD 5200.1-R, EO 12958-IS00, DODM 5200.01V1 & V2              C                                                                                             A                                        B
        http://www.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/ssc/capco/default.aspx
2.11. (U) Safeguard Classified                                            C                                                                                           2b                                          b
         TR: DoD 5200.1-R, EO 12958, as amended, AFI 16-201
3.     (U) ORGANIZATIONS AND
         MISSIONS
3.1. (U) Executive Branch                                                                                                                                               A                                        A
       TR: http://www.usa.gov/Agencies/Federal/Executive.shtml
3.2. (U) AF Intelligence                                                                                                                                                A                                        B
       TR: Joint Pub 2-0, HAFMD 1-33, AFPD 14-2, AFI 14-202v3
3.3. (U) Intelligence Community                                                                                                                                         A                                        B
3.4. (U) Department of Defense (DoD)                                                                                                                                    A                                        B
       TR: www.defense.gov
3.4.1. (U) Joints Chiefs of Staff                                                                                                                                       A                                        B
          TR: jcs.mil
3.4.2. (U) Joint Operations                                                                                                                                             A                                        B
          TR: Joint Pub 2-0
3.4.2.1. (U) Unified Commands                                                                                                                                           A                                        B
             TR: www.defense.gov.orgchart/
3.4.2.2. (U) Joint Task Force (JTF)                                                                                                                                                                              B
             TR: Joint Pub 2-0




                                                                                  37
                                                                                                                                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used to
                                                                                          3. Certification for OJT
                                                                                                                                                       Indicate Training Provided

                                                                                           A           B            C          D          E                                3-Level                                         5-Level
                                                                                2. Core
 1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References                                   Tasks/




                                                                                                                                                    Aircrew Fundamentals




                                                                                                                                                                                                  1A831X Initial Skills
                                                                                                                                                                             Fundamentals (1NX)
                                                                                Wartime




                                                                                                                                                        (1AX) Course




                                                                                                                                                                                 Intelligence
                                                                                Skills




                                                                                                                                                                                   Course




                                                                                                                                                                                                       Course
                                                                                           Tng                    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                                                                         1NX51   1A851X
                                                                                                   Tng Complete
                                                                                           Start                  Initials   Initials   Initials                                                                           CDC     CDC




3.4.3. (U) USAF Major Commands
         (MAJCOMS)                                                                                                                                                               A                                        B
           TR: afhra.mil, AFPAM 26-2241
3.4.4. (U) U.S. Cryptologic System and
       Service Cryptologic Components                                                                                                                                            A                                        B
       (SCC)
       TR: www. NSA.smil.mil, AFI 14-128
3.4.5. (U) Title 10, 18, 32, 50                                                                                                                                                                                           A
          TR: United States Code
3.5. (U) Coalition Forces                                                                                                                                                        A                                        B
       TR: Joint Pub 2-1, AFI 16-201
4.     (U) CONTINGENCY
         OPERATIONS
4.1. (U) Expeditionary Air Force                                                                                                                                                 A                                        B
        TR: AFI 10-401, AFI 10-402
4.2. (U) Marine Air Ground Task Force
       (MAGTF)                                                                                                                                                                                                            A
       TR: www.marines.mil (NIPR)
4.3. (U) Naval Carrier/Expeditionary Strike
       Group                                                                                                                                                                                                              A
       TR: www.navy.mil/navydata/ships/carriers/Powerhouse/cvbg.asp
       www.navy.mil (NIPR)
4.4. (U) Brigade Combat Team (BCT)                                                                                                                                                                                        A
        TR: http://www.sbct.army.mil/
4.5. (U) Special Operations/Joint Special
       Operations Task Force (JSOTF)                                                                                                                                                                                      A
        TR: Joint Pub 3-5.1
4.6. (U) Personnel Recovery
        TR: www.jpra.smil.mil (SIPR),; www.jpra.mil (NIPR); AFDD 2-0;                                                                                                            A                                        B
        AFDD 3-50; AFI 13-1AOCv3
4.7. (U) OPORD/OPLAN                                                                                                                                                             A                                        B
        TR: AFDD 2-0
5.     (U) INTELLIGENCE
         DISCIPLINES/AFSCs
5.1. (U) Capabilities and limitations of
       SIGINT                                                                                                                                                                    B                                        B
       TR: Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD)
5.2. (U) Capabilities and limitations of
       MASINT                                                                                                                                                                    B                                        B
       TR: Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), intelligence.gov
5.3. (U) Capabilities and limitations of
       HUMINT                                                                                                                                                                    B                                        B
       TR: Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), intelligence.gov
5.4. (U) Capabilities and limitations of
       GEOINT                                                                                                                                                                    B                                        B
       TR: Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), intelligence.gov
5.5. (U) Capabilities and limitations of OSINT                                                                                                                                   B                                        B
        TR: Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), intelligence.gov
5.6. (U) Functions of Intelligence AFSCs                                                                                                                                         B                                        B
        TR: Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), intelligence.gov




                                                                                           38
                                                                                                                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used to
                                                                              3. Certification for OJT
                                                                                                                                           Indicate Training Provided

                                                                               A           B            C          D          E                                3-Level                                         5-Level
                                                                    2. Core
 1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References                       Tasks/




                                                                                                                                        Aircrew Fundamentals




                                                                                                                                                                                      1A831X Initial Skills
                                                                                                                                                                 Fundamentals (1NX)
                                                                    Wartime




                                                                                                                                            (1AX) Course




                                                                                                                                                                     Intelligence
                                                                    Skills




                                                                                                                                                                       Course




                                                                                                                                                                                           Course
                                                                               Tng                    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                                                                         1NX51   1A851X
                                                                                       Tng Complete
                                                                               Start                  Initials   Initials   Initials                                                                           CDC     CDC




6.     (U) DOCTRINE
6.1. (U) Air Force Doctrine                                                                                                                                          A                                        B
        TR: AFDD 1, Chapter 5
6.2. (U) Joint Doctrine                                                                                                                                              A                                        B
        TR: Joint Pub 2-01, Chapter 4
6.3. (U) Air Force and Joint Doctrine                                                                                                                                                                         B
      TR: AFDD 1, Joint Pub 2-01, AFDD 3-12, AFDD 3-72, AFDD 3-14
7.     (U) INFORMATION
         OPERATIONS
7.1. (U) IO Doctrine                                                                                                                                                 A                                        B
       TR: AFDD 2-5, Joint Pub 3-13
8.      (U) INTELLIGENCE,
          SURVEILLANCE,
          RECONNAISSANCE (ISR)
          OPERATIONS

8.1. (U) ISR Processes
8.1.1. (U) Planning and Direction                                                                                                                                    A                                        B
          TR: AFDD 2-5, Joint Pub 2-0
8.1.2. (U) Collection                                                                                                                                                A                                        B
           TR: AFDD 2-5, Joint Pub 2-0
8.1.3. (U) Processing and Exploitation                                                                                                                               A                                        B
          TR: AFDD 2-5, Joint Pub 2-0
8.1.4. (U) Analysis and Production                                                                                                                                   A                                        B
          TR: AFDD 2-5, Joint Pub 2-0
8.1.5. (U) Dissemination and Integration                                                                                                                             A                                        B
8.1.6. (U) Evaluation and Feedback                                                                                                                                   A                                        B
          TR: AFDD 2-5, Joint Pub 2-0
8.2. (U) ISR Assets
8.2.1. (U) Operational characteristics,
         capabilities and limitations of US and                                                                                                                      A                                        B
         multinational assets
          TR: AFDD 2-9, Joint Pub 2-0, AFTTP 3-1 &3-3
9.     (U) DISTRIBUTED COMMON
         GROUND SYSTEM
9.1. (U) Structure and Mission                                                                                                                                       A                                        B
       TR: AFTTP 3-1.DCGS, AFI 14-2DCGS
10.     (U) AIR & SPACE OPERATIONS
          CENTER
10.1. (U) Structure and Mission                                                                                                                                      A                                        B
         TR: AFTTP 3.1AOC, AFI 10-401, AFI 13-1AOCV3
11.      (U) INTELLIGENCE
           PREPARATION OF THE
           OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENT
           (IPOE)




                                                                               39
11.1. (U) Intelligence Preparation of the
        Operational Environment                                                                                                                                                A                                        B
         TR: AFI 14-124, Joint Pub 2-01.3, AFPAM 14-124



                                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used to
                                                                                        3. Certification for OJT
                                                                                                                                                     Indicate Training Provided

                                                                                         A           B            C          D          E                                3-Level                                         5-Level
                                                                              2. Core
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References                                  Tasks/




                                                                                                                                                  Aircrew Fundamentals




                                                                                                                                                                                                1A831X Initial Skills
                                                                                                                                                                           Fundamentals (1NX)
                                                                              Wartime




                                                                                                                                                      (1AX) Course




                                                                                                                                                                               Intelligence
                                                                              Skills




                                                                                                                                                                                 Course




                                                                                                                                                                                                     Course
                                                                                         Tng                    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                                                                         1NX51   1A851X
                                                                                                 Tng Complete
                                                                                         Start                  Initials   Initials   Initials                                                                           CDC     CDC




12.     (U) TARGETING
12.1. (U) Targeting Cycle                                                                                                                                                      A                                        B
         TR: AFDD 3-60, AFI4-117, AFPAM 114-201, JP 3-60
13.      (U) US AND FRIENDLY FORCE
           FAMILIARIZATION


13.1. (U) Air, Space, Cyberspace
      TR: AFDD 3-12, Chapter 1; AFDD 2-0;
      http//www.naic.wrightpatterson.af.smil.mil/aero/ (SIPR) AFTTP 3-1 All
                                                                                                                                                                               A                                        B
      Vols
13.2. (U) Ground
      TR: http//www.ngic.army.smil.mil/functions/armor (SIPR), AFTTP 3-1                                                                                                                                                A
      All Vols
13.3. (U) Naval                                                                                                                                                                                                         A
      TR: http//www.navy.mil/navydata/fact.asp (NIPR) , AFTTP 3-1 All Vols
14.     (U) GEOSPATIAL
          INFORMATION & SERVICE
          (GI&S)
14.1. (U) Identify marginal data and symbology                                                                                                                               1a                                          a
       TR: Joint Pub 2-3
14.2. (U) Manually Plot Coordinates                                                                                                                                          2b                                          b
      TR: Joint Pub 2-3
14.3. (U) Perform Time Zone Calculations                                                                                                                                     1a
      TR: http//www.nist.gov/pml/general/time/world.cfm (NIPR)
14.4. (U) Geography                                                                                                                                                            A
      TR: www.worldatlas.com (NIPR)
15.      (U) CRITICAL THINKING


15.1. (U) Apply principles of Critical Thinking
      TR: Richards J. Heuer, Jr., “Psychology of intel Analysis” Morgan         C                                                                                            1a                                         B
      Jones “The Thinkers Tool Kit”; www.criticalthinking.org (NIPR)
15.2. (U) Conduct Online Data Search                                                                                                                                            a                                        b




                                                                                         40
                                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used to
                                                                                  3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                                            Indicate Training Provided
                                                                        2. Core
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References                            Tasks/       A           B          C          D          E              3-Lvl          5-Lvl    7-Lvl
                                                                        Wartime
                                                                                                                                            1N331       INX                Note:
                                                                        Skills                   Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Initial   Common     1NX51   Reserved
                                                                                   Tng Start
                                                                                               Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Skills     Core       CDC    for Future
                                                                                                                                            Course     Course               Use

                                                                       Attachment 4: STS – 1A8X1X

1.     (U) SECURITY
        TR: DCID 6/9, NSA/CSS Policy 5-23, DoD-5200.1-R,
        AFI 31-401, USSID SP0003, DoD 5200.01V1

1.1.   (U) Security
                                                                                                                                                      A
1.1.1. (U) Describe the physical security program
          TR: AFI 31-102
1.1.2. (U) Describe the Operations Security
       (OPSEC) Program.
       TR: AFI 10-701
1.2. (U) ACLAssified Material Handling
                                                                                                                                                        2b
1.2.1. (U) Apply proper security ACLAssification
        markings to ACLAssified and/or sensitive
        information including e-mail and web
        content
        TR: EO 13526, DoD 5200.01V1, DoD Manual, 5105.21V3
1.2.2. (U) Demonstrate proper procedures for
       protecting ACLAssified information and
       information systems
       TR: EO 13526, AFI 16-201, DoD Manual 5105.21V3
1.2.3. (U) Describe destruction procedures for
       ACLAssified material
       TR: EO 13526, DoD 5200.01V1, USSID SP0003
1.3    (U) Cyber Security
                                                                                                                                                         A
1.3.1. (U) Identify common cyber adversary
        threats and techniques
       TR: ADLS Cyber Awareness Challenge (ZZ133098), OPSEC
       Awareness, Information Protection (ZZ133078) (NIPR)
2.      (U) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
       (IC) AND THE U.S. SIGINT
       SYSTEM
2.1.    (U) Intelligence Community

2.1.1. (U) Identify the members of the IC and
       their functions                                                                                                                                 A
        TR: USSID SP0001, USSID SP0002, USSID SP0200, Joint Pub 2-0,
        EO 12333
2.1.2. (U) Describe the disciplines of the IC                                                                                                          A
        TR: USSID SP0001, SP0002, Joint Pub 2-0, EO 12333
2.1.3. (U) Describe the missions, organizations,
       and structure of the U.S. Armed Forces,
       with emphasis on Service Cryptologic
       Components and their relationship to                                                                                                  A
       NSA/CSS
        TR: SE1000, SE2000, SE3000, SE4000, SE5000, USSID CR1200,
        SP0200, CR1231
2.1.4. (U) Describe the U.S. IC relationship                                                                                                 A


                                                                                   41
       with Foreign Partners
        TR: USSID SP0001, SP0004, SP0005, SP0006, SP0007, SP0009,
        S00011
                                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used to
                                                                               3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                                            Indicate Training Provided
                                                                     2. Core
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References
                                                                     Tasks/      A             B            C          D          E             3-Lvl           5-Lvl    7-Lvl
                                                                     Wartime                                                                1N331       INX                Note:
                                                                                                          Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Initial   Common     1NX51   Reserved
                                                                     Skills    Tng Start   Tng Complete
                                                                                                          Initials   Initials   Initials    Skills     Core       CDC    for Future
                                                                                                                                            Course     Course               Use

2.2.   (U) National Security Agency/
       Central Security Service (NSA/CSS)                                                                                                     A
2.2.1. (U) Describe the SIGINT and
       Information Assurance missions of
       NSA/CSS
        TR: USSID SP0001, www.nsa.gov/sigint (NIPR)
2.2.2. (U) Identify the role of the U.S. Cyber
       Command and its relationship to
       NSA/CSS
        TR: www.stratcom.mil ; www.defense.gov/cyber (NIPR)
2.2.3. (U) Define the SIGINT sub-disciplines
        TR: www.intelligence.gov (NIPR)
2.2.4. (U) Describe how NSA/CSS conducts
       SIGINT operations worldwide
        TR: USSID SP0001, CR1100 to CR1299
2.2.5. (U) Identify SIGINT produces and
       Consumers
       TR: USSID SE1000 to SE5000, RPTG 1011 (NCS)
2.2.6. (U) Describe te U.S. Signals Intelligence
       Directives (USSID) system
       TR: USSID Index, USSID SP0002
2.3.   (U) Intelligence Oversight

2.3.1. (U) Define principles of the Intelligence
       Oversight Program                                                                                                                      B         A
        TR: AFI 14-104, EO 12333
3.     (U) SIGINT PROCESS

3.1.   (U) Basic SIGINT Production

3.1.1. (U) Describe the Intelligence Cycle                                                                                                              A
       TR: Joint Pub 2-01, AFDD 3-13
3.1.2. (U) Describe the National SIGINT
       Requirements Process (NSRP)                                                                                                            A
       TR: USSID SP0001, SP0002, CR1400, DA3110, AFPB 38-201
3.1.3. (U) Define Information Needs (INs)                                                                                                     A
       TR: www.intel.dhs.sgov.gov/sins.asp (SIPR)
3.1.4. (U) Explain CRITIC criteria and time
       Requirements                                                                                                                           A
       TR: USSID CR1500, CR1501, CR 1251
3.1.5. (U) Identify methods of approved
       dissemination, including SIGINT
       Reporting                                                                                                                              A
       TR: USSID CR1400, CR1501, CR1501, CR1500, CR1512, CR151551,
       CR1252
3.2.   (U) Collection
                                                                                                                                              A
3.2.1. (U) Describe Active and Passive
       collection techniques
       TR: NCS Course – VUPORT NETA 2002,
       www.fbi.gov/about-us/intelligence/disciplines (NIPR)




                                                                                42
3.2.2. (U) Define the major types of
       collection access
       TR: *


                                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used to
                                                                                       3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                                                 Indicate Training Provided
                                                                             2. Core
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References                                              A           B          C          D          E              3-Lvl           5-Lvl      7-Lvl
                                                                             Tasks/
                                                                                                                                                  1N331       INX                  Note:
                                                                             Wartime                  Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    Initial   Common     1NX51     Reserved
                                                                                        Tng Start
                                                                             Skills                 Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Skills     Core       CDC      for Future
                                                                                                                                                  Course     Course                 Use

3.2.3. (U//FOUO) Describe Signal Related
       Information (SRI and metadata)
       TR: www.intel.dhs.sgov.gov/sins.asp (SIPR)
3.3.   (U) Indications and Warnings
                                                                                                                                                    A
3.3.1. (U) Describe Threat Warning Programs’
       objectives and conditions
       TR: USSID CR1251, CR1252
3.3.2. (U) Describe SIGINT Support to Force
       Protection
       TR: CR1400, AFI 14-119
4.     (U) COMMUNICATIONS
       FUNDAMENTALS
       TR: NCS TA-106, AFP 50-47, NAVEDRTA 10250,
       NSACSS/E-5 GNI Video, Joint Pub 3-13, AFPD 3101, AFPD 10-7,
       SIGG 1040, SIGG 1048, DoD 3600.1, AFDD 2-5, AFIS 10-706
4.1.   (U) Signals Fundamentals and Radio
       Wave Theory                                                                                                                                  A

4.1.1. (U) Describe basic elements of radio
       wave propagation and modulation
       TR: NCS Course – SIGG 1041; www.mike-willis.com/Tutorial/PF1.html
       (NIPR); www.ihe.kit/img/studium/ARC_2012_WavePropagation_
       Viewgraphs_v1.pdf (NIPR)
4.1.2. (U) Identify the environmental factors
       that affect electromagnetic waves
       TR: www.stuk.fi/julkaisut_maaraykset/fi_FI/katsaukset/_files/
       87327465807675441/default/taustakentat_eng1_22_7_2009_
       lopullinen.pdf (NIPR)
4.1.3. (U) Describe radio wave and landline
       transmission paths
       TR: www,vias.org/albert_ecomm/aec12_radio_wave_propagation_
       005.html (NIPR); www.fas.org/spp/military/docops/afwa/U2.htm (NIPR)
4.1.4. (U) Describe communications modalities
       (analog vs. digital) and their basic
       differences
       TR: NCS Course – SIGG 1048
       www.diffen.com/difference/Analog_vs_Digital (NIPR)
4.1.5. (U) Identify RF communication ranges
       and their usage
       TR: NCS Course –VUPORT NETA 1021
       www.wisegeek.org/what-is-rf.htm (NIPR)
4.2.   (U) Communication Systems
                                                                                                                                                    A
4.2.1. (U) Identify communication methods
       such as voice, fax, data, video
       teleconference and electronic messaging
       TR: NCS Course _ SIGG 1040
       www.igcseict.info/theory/4/index.html (NIPR)
4.2.2. (U) Identify the various communication
       systems such as microwave, satellite, and
       cellular phone
       TR: NCS Course – SIGG 1040; www.itu.int/ITU-D/asp/Events/ITU-
       BSNL-India/presentations/4-Tranmission%20Technology%20Session.pdf




                                                                                         43
       (NIPR)

4.2.3. (U) Identify basic cryptanalysis and
       encryption techniques
       TR: USSIDs DA3110, DA3610


                                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used to
                                                                                      3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                                                Indicate Training Provided
                                                                            2. Core
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References                                             A           B          C          D          E               3-Lvl         5-Lvl    7-Lvl
                                                                            Tasks/
                                                                                                                                                1N331       INX                  Note:
                                                                            Wartime                  Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Initial   Common     1NX51     Reserved
                                                                                       Tng Start
                                                                            Skills                 Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Skills     Core       CDC      for Future
                                                                                                                                                Course     Course                 Use

4.2.4. (U) Identify denial and deception
       Techniques
       TR: USSIDs DA3110, DA3610
4.3.   (U) Telephony
                                                                                                                                                  A
4.3.1. (U) Describe basic concepts of
        telecommunication transmission systems,
        such as Public Switched Telephone
        Network (PSTN) and microwave
        TR: NCS Course – VUPORT SIGG1048, HowStuffWorks: PSTN and
        VOIP www.howstuffworks.com/telphone-country-codes1.html (NIPR);
        www.howstuffworks.com/ip-telephony.htm (NIPR)
4.3.2. (U) Describe basic Global System Mobile
       (GSM) theory, including network
       components and identifiers (Such as
       International Mobile Equipment Identity
       (IMEI), International Mobile Subscriber
       Identity (IMSI), Mobile Station Integrated
       Services Digital Network (MSISDN)
       TR: NETA 2005 NSA/CSS Virtual University
       www.slashdocs.com/rpqyy/introduction-to-gsm-theory-and-cellular-
       theory.html (NIPR)
4.3.3. (U) Describe High Powered Cordless
       Phones (HPCP), including functionality
       and identifiers
       TR: www.howstuffworks.com/cordless-telephone1.htm (NIPR)
4.3.4. (U) Describe basic satellite phone
       theory (Such as Inmarsat, Iridium,
       Thuraya)
       TR: www.ehow.com/how-does_5001654_satellite-phones-work.html
       www.ehow.com/about_4676283_satellite-phones-technology.html (NIPR)
4.3.5. (U) Describe Code Division Multiple
       Access (CDMA) networks
       TR: www.howstuffworks.com/cdma-phones.htm (NIPR)
4.3.6. (U) Describe Short Messaging Service
       (SMS) and texting
        TR: VUPORT NETA 2005; www.howstuffworks.com/e-mail-messaging/
        sms.htm (NIPR)
4.4.   (U) Digital Network Communications
                                                                                                                                                  A
4.4.1. (U) Identify Essential Elements of
       Information (EEI) about digital network
       communications (Such as IP addresses,
       MAC addresses, and selectors)
       TR: NETA 2002/1021
       www.allaboutcirucits.com/vol_4/chpt_14/7.html (NIPR);
       www.nwtel.ca/services-and-products-frequently-asked-questions/
       glossary-of-data-network-terminology (NIPR)
4.4.2. (U) Describe basic facts and terms about
       digital network communications



                                                                                        44
       TR: www.allaboutcircuits.com/vol_4/chpt_14/7.html (NIPR);
       www.nwtel.ca/services-and-products-frequently-asked-questions/
       glossary-of-data-network-terminology (NIPR)
4.4.3. (U) Define the Domain Name System
       (DNS)
       TR: DoDI 8410.01




                                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used to
                                                                                       3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                                                 Indicate Training Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References                                 2. Core
                                                                             Tasks/
                                                                             Wartime
                                                                                          A           B          C          D          E               3-Lvl         5-Lvl    7-Lvl
                                                                                                                                                 1N331       INX                  Note:
                                                                             Skills     Tng Start
                                                                                                      Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Initial   Common     1NX51     Reserved
                                                                                                    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Skills     Core       CDC      for Future
                                                                                                                                                 Course     Course                 Use

5.     (U) BASIC TRAFFIC
       EXPLOITATION
5.1.   (U) Communications Network Structures
       TR: RTA Manual, USSID DA3110, DA3610, AP2121,                                                                                               A
       TEXTA Manual, SIGG 1049, TRAF 2101
5.1.1. (U) Identify basic concepts of networks
       and net reconstruction
       TR: TR: NCS Courses – TRAF 2101, TRAF 2102, SIGG 1049, TOL
       1101, TOL 1102, TOL 20001, NETA 2000, GISA 200
       www.nsa.gov/public_info/_files/tech_journals/Net_Reconstruction.pdf
       (NIPR)
5.1.2. (U) Define network diagramming
       TR: NCS Courses – TRAF 2101, TRAF 2102, SIGG 1049,
       https://wiki.nsa.ic.gov/wiki/Network (NSANet)
5.2.   (U) Basic Traffic Terminology
                                                                                                                                                   A
5.2.1. (U) Identify basic message components
       and subcomponents
       TR: USSID DA3610
5.2.2. (U) Identify basic facts of callsign usage
       TR: USSID DA3610
5.3.   (U) Mapping and Target Location Skills

5.3.1. (U) Locate places using applicable
       systems, such as military grid system and
       geographic coordinates                                                                                                                               2b
       TR: USSID DA3110; NCS Courses – AREA 1045, TRAF 2101, CIA
       World Fact Book
5.3.2. (U) Describe basic Direction Finding (DF)                                                                                                   A
       TR: USSID DA3110, Joint Pub 2-3
5.3.3. (U) Describe geolocation theories                                                                                                           A
       TR: USSID DA3110, Joint Pub 2-3
6.     (U) BASIC TARGET KNOWLEDGE
       TR: CIA World Fact Book, USSID DA3110, DA3610, AP2121,
       TEXTA Manual, AFI 14-117, AFDD 2-1.9, Joint Pub 2-01.1,
       AFPAM 14-210, TRAF 2101
6.1.   (U) Target Structure
                                                                                                                                                  B*
6.1.1. (U) Define organizations and capabilities,
       such as geopolitical, military socio-
       economic, and personalities; and their
       capabilities, such as order of battle and
       spheres of influence
       TR: CIA World Fact Book
6.1.2. (U) Identify target area geography
       TR: CIA World Fact Book
7.     (U) TARGET LANGUAGE
       ANALYSIS



                                                                                         45
7.1.   (U) Tip-Off Tasks
                                                                                                                                              2b
7.1.1. (U) Identify and tip distress signals
       TR: USSID DA3130


                                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used to
                                                                                 3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                                            Indicate Training Provided
 1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References                          2. Core
                                                                       Tasks/        A           B          C          D          E                3-Lvl        5-Lvl   7-Lvl
                                                                                                                                            1N331      INX                   Note:
                                                                       Wartime                   Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Initial   Common    1NX51      Reserved
                                                                                   Tng Start
                                                                       Skills                  Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Skills     Core     CDC        for Future
                                                                                                                                            Course     Course                 Use

7.2.   (U) Signals of Interest
                                                                                                                                              1a
7.2.1. (U) Identify signals of interest such as
       jamming or enciphered speech
       TR: Joint Pub Electronic Warfare, JP 3-13
7.3.   (U) Non-Target Language Identification
                                                                                                                                              1a
7.3.1. (U) Identify and tip regional non-target
       language and dialects
       TR: NCS Courses – CLIC 2220, CLIC 2221, CLIC 2224, CLIC 2231;
       www.voiceoversamples.com (NIPR)
7.4.   (U) Communications Processing
       TR: USSID DA3201 Annex A, Appendix 6, Tab A-K                                                                                        2b*
7.4.1. (U) Perform a gist in English of target
       language cryptologic communications,
       identifying Essential Elements of
       Information (EEIs) to provide
       time-sensitive indications and warnings.
7.4.2. (U) Transcribe (using appropriate format)
       target cryptologic language
       communications and identify EEIs.
7.4.3. (U) Translate target cryptologic language
       material into grammatically correct
       English
7.4.4. (U) Provide a journalistic style summary
       of one or more related events in English
       of target language cryptologic
       communications, incorporating and
       emphasizing EEIs to convey the
       aggregate meaning of an activity or
       situation.
7.5. (U) Typing
                                                                                                                                               2
7.5.1. (U) Type 25 words per minute at 90%
       Accuracy
8.     (U) SCENARIO-BASED EXERCISE

8.1.    (U) Participate in a CAPSTONE
        Exercise using target language material.                                                                                            2b#
8.1.1. (U) Apply cryptologic, foreign language,
        and analytic skills to exploit target signals
        of interest and communication networks.
        Emphasis should be placed on gisting,
        transcribing, translating and summarizing
        while applying basic traffic analysis skills



                                                                                   46
and processing tools introduced during the
course.




                                             47
                                                                                                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used to
                                                         3. Certification for OJT
                                                                                                                      Indicate Training Provided

                                                          A           B            C          D          E                                3-Level                                         5-Level
                                               2. Core
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References   Tasks/




                                                                                                                   Aircrew Fundamentals




                                                                                                                                                                 1A831X Initial Skills
                                                                                                                                            Fundamentals (1NX)
                                               Wartime




                                                                                                                       (1AX) Course




                                                                                                                                                Intelligence
                                               Skills




                                                                                                                                                  Course




                                                                                                                                                                      Course
                                                          Tng                    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                                                                         1NX51   1A851X
                                                                  Tng Complete
                                                          Start                  Initials   Initials   Initials                                                                           CDC     CDC




                                 Attachment 5: STS – 1A851 Career Development Course (CDC)
1. 1A8X1X CAREER PROGRESSION
    TR: AFI 36-2101, AFI 36-2104, AFI 11-
    401, AF Mission Directives
1.1. Progression within AFSC 1A8X1X                                                                                                                                                               A
1.2. Duties of AFSC 1A831X/51/71/ 90/00                                                                                                                                                           A
2. 1A8X1X CREW RESOURCE
    MANAGEMENT
     TR: AFI-11-290
2.1. In-flight Communications                                                                                                                                                                     A
3. 1A8X1X SAFETY
     TR: AFI 32-7806, 91-201, 91-202, 91-301,
    91-302, 91-303, 123-1, AFMAN 24-204,
    AFOSH Std 91-25, 91-66, 91-100, AFPAM
    91-121
3.1. Hazards of AFSC 1A8X1X                                                                                                                                                                         B
3.2. AFOSH Standard of AFSC 1A8X1X                                                                                                                                                                  B
3.3. Maintain safe work area                                                                                                                                                                        B
4. 1A8X1X AIRCREW/FLIGHT
    MANAGEMENT
     TR: AFPD 11-4, AFI 11-401, 11-402,11-
    412, 11-202, 38-201, 48-123v3
4.1. Responsibilities of HQ USAF and
       MAJCOM Aircrew Managers
4.1.1. Career Field                                                                                                                                                                               A
4.1.2. Functional                                                                                                                                                                                 A
4.1.3. Utilization                                                                                                                                                                                A
5. 1A8X1X SIGINT REPORTING
5. 1A8X1X Reporting Fundamentals
5.1.1. Describe the U.S. signals intelligence
Directives (USSID) system                                                                                                                                                                         A
TR: USSID Index, USSID SP0002
5.1.2. Describe the SIGINT Threat Warning
Program objectives and conditions                                                                                                                                                                   B
TR: USSID CR1251, CR1252
5.1.3. Describe SIGINT Support to Force
Protection                                                                                                                                                                                        A
TR: CR1400, AFI 14-119




                                                          48
                                                                                                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used to
                                                              3. Certification for OJT
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training Provided

                                                               A           B            C          D          E                                3-Level                                         5-Level
                                                    2. Core
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References        Tasks/




                                                                                                                        Aircrew Fundamentals




                                                                                                                                                                      1A831X Initial Skills
                                                                                                                                                 Fundamentals (1NX)
                                                    Wartime




                                                                                                                            (1AX) Course




                                                                                                                                                     Intelligence
                                                    Skills




                                                                                                                                                       Course




                                                                                                                                                                           Course
                                                               Tng                    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                                                                         1NX51   1A851X
                                                                       Tng Complete
                                                               Start                  Initials   Initials   Initials                                                                           CDC     CDC




6. 1A8X1X COMMUNICATIONS AND
     SIGNALS FUNDAMENTALS
     TR: NCS TA-106, AFP 50-47,
     NAVEDTRA 10250, NSACSS/E-5 GNI
     Video, Joint Pub 3-13, AFPD 3101, AFPD
     10-7, SIGG 1040, SIGG 1048, DOD 3600.1,
     AFDD 2-5, AFIS 10-706
6.1. Radio Wave Theory
6.1.1. Describe basic elements of radio wave
propagation and modulation                                                                                                                                                                             A
TR: SIGG 1041
6.1.2. Identify the environmental factors that
affect electromagnetic waves                                                                                                                                                                           A
TR: SIGG 1041
6.2. Modern Communication Systems
6.2.1. Identify communication methods                                                                                                                                                                  A
TR: SIGG 1040
6.2.2 Identify the various communication
systems                                                                                                                                                                                                A
TR: SIGG 1040
6.2.3. Describe radio wave and landline
transmission paths                                                                                                                                                                                     A
TR: SIGG 1048
6.2.4. Describe communications modalities
(analog vs. digital networks)                                                                                                                                                                          A
TR: SIGG 1048
6.2.5. Identify basic differences between analog
and digital networks                                                                                                                                                                                   A
TR: SIGG 1048
6.3. Information Operations
6.3.1. Define the functions of Information
Operations
TR: DOD 3600.1, AFDD 2-5, AFPD 3101, AFIS                                                                                                                                                              A
10-706, AFP 50-47
6.4. Digital Network Intelligence (DNI)
6.4.1. Define basic facts and terms about Digital
Network Intelligence                                                                                                                                                                                   A
TR: NETA 1004 (NCS)
7. 1A8X1X BASIC TRAFFIC
     EXPLOITATION
7.1. Communications Network Structures
      TR: RTA Manual, USSID DA3110,
       DA3610, AP2121, TEXTA Manual, SIGG
       1049, TRAF 2101
7.1.1. Identify basic concepts of networks and
net reconstruction
TR: TRAF 2101, TRAF 2102, SIGG 1049, TOL                                                                                                                                                               A
1101, TOL 1102, TOL 20001, NETA 2000,
GISA 200




                                                               49
Section B - Course Objective List

5. Measurement. Each objective is indicated as follows: W indicates task or subject
knowledge which is measured using a written test; P indicates required task performance which
is measured with a performance test; PC indicates required task performance which is measured
with a performance progress check; PC/W indicates separate measurement of both knowledge
and performance elements using a written test and a performance progress check; and P/W
indicates separate measurement of both knowledge and performance elements using a written
and a performance test.

6. Standard. The minimum standard is 85% on written examinations. Standards for
performance measurement are indicated in the objective and delineated on the individual
progress checklist. Instructor assistance is provided as needed during the progress check, and
students may be required to repeat all or part of the behavior until satisfactory performance is
attained.

7. Proficiency Level. Most task performance is taught to the “2b” proficiency level which
means the students can do most parts of the task, but do need assistance on the hardest parts of
the task (partially proficient). The student can also determine step by step procedures for doing
the task.

8. Classification. The CFETP is UNACLASSIFED//FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY.

9. Course Objective. These objectives are listed in the sequence taught by Block of Instruction.

9.1. Initial Skills Course. Course training standards for individual cryptologic language
courses are determined via meetings with signatories of the CTAG. Updates to these standards
are clarified quarterly via video teleconference (VTC). These standards are classified and on file
with 316 TRS/XPP, Goodfellow AFB TX.

9.2. Advanced Skills Course. NOTE: There is currently no advanced course. This area is
reserved.

Section C - Support Material

10. Support Material. NOTE: This area is reserved.




                                                50
Section D – Training Course Index

Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the specialty and shows
how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field training programs.

11. Air Force In-Residence Courses. A current list of USAF formal in-residence courses,
including DLIFLC language courses, can be obtained at: https://etca.randolph.af.mil/. For language
specific courses not taught at DLIFLC or Goodfellow AFB, such as local language enhancement and
analysis courses, please contact your CLPM or refer to the National Cryptologic School Course
Catalog.

12. Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning (AFIADL) Courses.

  Course Number                          Course Title                               Notes
                       Intelligence Fundamentals Journeyman Career
CDC 1NX5X
                       Development Course

                       Airborne Cryptologic Language Analyst
CDC 1A851
                       Journeyman Career Development Course



13. Career Enhancement Programs.

13.1. NSA Intern Programs.

13.1.1. Middle Enlisted Cryptologic Career Advancement Program (MECCAP). MECCAP is a
highly competitive 3-year internship program at NSA/CSS Washington to further develop the
technical and leadership skills of selected NCOs through advanced formal training and a series of
individually tailored operational assignments. Unlike MLAP which is designed specifically for
ACLAs and focuses on language enhancement, MECCAP is aimed at broadening Intelligence
Professionals from many different specialties in areas such as collection management; intelligence
and signal analysis; reporting and dissemination; research and engineering; information
security/information operations; and support to military/intelligence community operations. The goal
of the program is to provide a career broadening work/study environment that develops highly skilled
cryptologic managers for future active duty cryptologic positions requiring greater expertise and
responsibility. This includes providing them with an in-depth understanding of relationships within
the National Intelligence Community. Air Staff calls for nominations for this program annually in the
late August/early September timeframe and applications are typically due to the Air Staff in late
November. For more information about this career broadening opportunity, please visit the ISR
Forces sharepoint site: https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/OO-IN-AF-05/default.aspx.

13.1.2. Military Language Analyst Program (MLAP) (Includes Arabic, Chinese, Korean,
Persian, Russian, and Spanish Programs). The MLAP is a prestigious 3-year internship program
at NSA/CSS Washington designed to enhance the language and technical skills of selected ACLAs
through advanced formal training and a series of individually tailored operational assignments.
Participants will be enrolled in individually structured programs consisting of formal language and
related SIGINT-focused classroom instruction and operational work assignments. Specific
                                                 51
coursework and operations assignments will be determined based on the participant’s cryptologic
experience, desire, and language proficiency. The goal of the program is to provide each service
cryptologic component with a cadre of highly trained professional military ACLAs—technical
leaders, who are capable of filling the most demanding language-related positions. The program is
available to qualified E-4 thru E-6 ACLAs with at least 3 but no more than 8 years of service. Air
Staff calls for nominations for this program annually in the late August/early September timeframe
and applications are typically due to the Air Staff in late November. For more information about this
unique opportunity, please visit the ISR Forces sharepoint site: https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/OO-IN-AF-
05/default.aspx or contact the MLAP Managers at sla_military@nsa.gov.

13.2. Degree Programs.

13.2.1. National Intelligence University (NIU). NIU is a regionally accredited institution offering
military and civilian personnel working in intelligence or intelligence/security-related specialties the
opportunity to enroll in professional intelligence undergraduate or graduate-level study in full- or
part-time programs. Coursework includes both core and elective courses on a variety of intelligence
disciplines to include collection; analysis; regional studies; information operations; intelligence,
surveillance and reconnaissance; national security issues; and strategic intelligence in the joint
environment. NIU educates future leaders who are full partners with their policy, planning, and
operations counterparts and who are able to anticipate and tailor the intelligence required at the
national, theater and tactical levels. Classes have a student mix from all services in intelligence
community and the federal government. The college is located in the Defense Intelligence Analysis
Center (DIA HQ) on Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling, Washington, DC. Air Staff calls for nominations
annually in the April timeframe and packages are due by 31 August. The programs offered through
NIU are listed below. For further information, please visit the ISR Forces sharepoint site:
https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/OO-IN-AF-05/default.aspx or the National Intelligence University webpage
at: www.ni-u.edu.

      Bachelor of Science in Intelligence (BSI). The BSI degree is an 11-month intelligence
       curriculum that affords those students who have earned three years of undergraduate credits a
       means of completing their bachelor degree requirements.

      Master of Science in Strategic Intelligence (MSSI). The MSSI is a graduate degree
       program requiring completion of an 11-month course of study. This course of study includes
       core and elective courses culminating in a Master’s thesis. The MSSI is also available for
       part-time study for personnel stationed in the National Capital Region.

      Master of Science and Technology Intelligence (MSTI). The MSTI is a graduate degree
       program requiring completion of an 11-month course of study. This course of study includes
       core and elective courses culminating in a Master’s thesis.

      Certificate of Intelligence Studies (CIS). The CIS involves graduate level study of an
       intelligence topic (3-5 classes). Classes are conducted at designated COCOMs and the DIA
       HQ campus. They are also available through distance learning and in-residence education.
       Certificates include: CIS in Africa: Strategic Intelligence Studies; CIS in China: Intelligence
       Concerns; CIS in Counterintelligence; CIS in Afghanistan and Pakistan (AFPAK); and CIS in
       Eurasia.


                                                  52
13.2.2. Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT). The Enlisted-to-AFIT program is a unique
element of enlisted professional development. In conjunction with other training and education
programs, resident AFIT-sponsored science, engineering, and management graduate degree
opportunities further develop noncommissioned officers' technical education and skills. Ultimately,
this program provides enhanced combat capability for diverse career fields with positions requiring a
higher degree of education. The master’s degrees programs available to 1N3X1 personnel are:
Computer Science, Cyber Operations, Combating Weapons of Mass Destruction, and Operations
Research. For further information on applying to AFIT, please visit the ISR Forces sharepoint site:
https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/OO-IN-AF-05/default.aspx or the AFIT webpage at:
http://www.afit.edu/en/admissions/officeinfo.cfm?a=contactinfo.

Section E – MAJCOM Unique Requirements
14. Major Command Courses. The following list of MAJCOM unique requirements is not all-
inclusive; however, it covers the most frequently referenced areas.

  Course Number                       Course Title                        Location         MAJCOM
                Compass Call Block 30 Analysis Operator             Davis Monthan
CCALLANO/IQ                                                                                ACC
                Initial Qualification                               AFB, AZ
CCALLANO/TX1/2/ Compass Call Block 30 Analysis Operator             Davis Monthan
                                                                                           ACC
3               Requalification/Transition Qualification            AFB, AZ
                Compass Call Mission Crew Supervisor                Davis Monthan
CCALLMCSUG                                                                                 ACC
                Qualification                                       AFB, AZ
                Compass Call Mission Crew Instructor                Davis Monthan
CCALLINST                                                                                  ACC
                Qualification                                       AFB, AZ
                RC/OC/WC-135 and E-4 Central Flight
CFIC135/E4                                                          Offutt AFB, NE         ACC
                Instructor Course
                RC-135V/W Airborne Cryptologic
RC135CO         Language Analyst Qualification &                    Offutt AFB, NE         ACC
                Requalification
RC135AA               RC-135 Airborne Analyst Qualification         Offutt AFB, NE         ACC

RC135DLO              RC-135 Data Link Operator Qualification       Offutt AFB, NE         ACC
                      RC-135 Airborne Mission Supervisor
RC135AMS                                                            Offutt AFB, NE         ACC
                      Qualification




                                                 53
