DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                               CFETP 4P0X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                                                  Parts 1 and II
Washington DC 20330-1030                                                                 15 August 2014



                                             AFSC 4P0X1

                                             PHARMACY




                             CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND
                                   TRAINING PLAN

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil
for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                 CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                           PHARMACY SPECIALTY
                                AFSC 4P0X1

                                Table of Contents


PART I

Preface……………………………………………………………………………………                          3

Abbreviations/Terms Explained………………………………………………………..             4

Section A—General Information……………………………………………………….              7
       Purpose of the CFETP
       Use of the CFETP
       Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B—Career Field Progression and Information………………………….……. 8
       Specialty Descriptions
       Skill /Career Progression
               Apprentice Level (3)
               Journeyman Level (5)
               Craftsman Level (7)
               Superintendent Level (9)
       Training Decisions
       Community College of the Air Force Academics Programs
       Career Field Path

Section C—Skill Level Training Requirements……………………………………….. 14
       Purpose
       Specialty Qualification Requirements
             Apprentice Level (3)
             Journeyman Level (5)
             Craftsman Level (7)
             Superintendent Level (9)

Section D—Resource Constraints……………………………………………………….. 15
       Purpose
       Training Constraints

Section E—Transitional Training Guide……………………………………………….. 15




                                        1
Part II

Section A—Specialty Training Standard……………………………………………… 15
       Implementation Purpose Recommendations
       Qualitative Requirements

Section B—Course Objective List……………………………………………………… 31

Section C—Support Materials………………………………………………………….. 31

Section D—Training Course Index…………………………………………………….. 31

Section E—Major Command (MAJCOM) Unique Requirements…………………... 32

Section F—Documentation of Training (Medical Specific)…………………………... 33




OPR: AF/SG1E
Certified by: CMSgt Paula Eischen (81 MDTS/SGQP)
Supersedes: CFETP4P0X1, 1 Dec 06; CFETP4P0X1C1, 15 Oct 07; CFETP4P0X1C2, 14 Aug 09;
CFETP4P0X1C3, 7 Dec 09
Number of Pages: 39




                                             2
                                    PHARMACY SPECIALTY
                                         AFSC 4P0X1
                          CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN


PART I

Preface

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and training
document that identifies life-cycle education and training requirements, training support resources, and
minimum core task requirements for the pharmacy specialty. The CFETP will provide supervisors, trainers,
and trainees a clear career path to success and instills rigor in unit level training. NOTE: Civilians
occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty position qualification training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts. Supervisors use both parts to plan, manage, and control training
within the career field.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A explains how
everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression information, duties and
responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C associates each level with specialty
qualifications (knowledge, education, training, and other). Section D indicates resource constraints; some
examples are funds, manpower, equipment, and facilities. Section E identifies transition training guide
requirements for SSgt through MSgt.

2.2. Part II provides training guidance for all skills levels. Section A identifies the Specialty Training
Standard (STS) and includes duties, tasks, technical references to support Air Education and Training
Command (AETC) conducted training, wartime course, core tasks, and correspondence course requirements.
Section B contains the course objective list and training standards supervisors will use to determine if Airmen
satisfied training requirements. Section C identifies available support materials. Section D identifies a training
course index; supervisors can use to determine resources available to support training. Included here are both
mandatory and optional courses. Section E identifies MAJCOM unique training requirements supervisors can
use to determine additional training required for the associated qualification needs. Section F provides
guidelines for managing and documenting enlisted training (medical specific) in the Air Force Training Record
(AFTR).

3. Guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive effective and efficient
training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan will enable us to train today’s work force for
tomorrow’s jobs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training
commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.




                                                         3
                                  ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training (AT). Formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in one or more
positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance their expertise in the
career field. Training is for selected career Airmen at the advanced level of the AFS.

Aeromedical Evacuation and Patient Staging (AEPS). AEPS is a provisionally designated unit that provides
administrative processing and continuing nursing care on a 24 hour basis to patients entering or traveling in the
Aeromedical Evacuation (AE) system during emergency conditions or contingency operations.

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). Representative appointed by HQ USAF/SG to ensure assigned
AF specialties are trained and utilized to support AF mission requirements.

Air Force Training Record (AFTR). A centralized, enterprise-wide internet accessible application that
adheres to and complies with AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, across the USAF while being tailored
to the Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) that it is supporting.

Air Reserve Component (ARC). A Component of the Air Force (AF) comprised of Air National Guard
(ANG) and Air Force Reserve (AFR) units.

Ancillary Training. Additional training assigned by the AF, unit and/or Squadron that are required to be
performed.

Career Broadening. Duties and responsibilities outside of normal pharmacy activities that provide an
opportunity for career advancement (i.e. training or Professional Military Education Instructor, Military
Training Instructor (MTI), Military Training Leader, Career Assistance Advisor, squadron or group
superintendent).

Career Development Course (CDC). Self-study correspondence courses that provide Airmen with the
fundamental knowledge of their AFS. CDCs directly support the AF on-the-job training program and AF
promotion system.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). Comprehensive core training document that identifies
Life-cycle education and training requirements, training support resources, and minimum core task
requirements. The CFETP aims to give personnel a clear path and instill a sense of industry in career field
training.

Certification. A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required standards.

Certification Official. A person whom the commander assigns to determine an individual’s ability to perform
a task to required standards.

Continuation Training. Additional training exceeding requirements with emphasis on present or future duty
assignments. Synonymous with proficiency training.

Core Task. Tasks the AFCFM identify as minimum qualification requirements for everyone within an AFSC.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication derived from initial or advanced skills course training standards,
it identifies the tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective standards provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, 7-skill
level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance
with (IAW) AFI 36-2201.



                                                        4
Defense Medical Logistics Standard Support (DMLSS). Delivers an automated and integrated information
system with a comprehensive range of medical material, equipment, war reserve materiel and facilities
management functions for the Military Health System.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (on-the-
job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Expeditionary Medical Service (EMEDS). Operational medical equipment, supplies and personnel staged to
support and sustain a portable bedded facility to an Air Expeditionary Force (AEF). EMEDS provides acute
intervention and primary care to support the deployment of 500-2000 personnel worldwide.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video, or other
necessary means to supplement training.

Go. The stage at which an individual has gained enough skill, knowledge, and experience to perform the tasks
without supervision. Meeting the task standard.

Home Station Medical Response (HSMR). Tactics, techniques and procedures for home station medical
commanders to plan, prepare, and employ their assigned assets to respond to chemical, biological, radiological,
nuclear, and/or high-yield explosives (CBRNE) events including Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) events.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly, but flexible process for planning,
developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures personnel are taught in a cost
efficient way the knowledge, skills, and attitudes essential for successful job performance. Reference: AFI 36-
2201

Initial Skills Training. Training acquired through attending an official AF course that results in an AFSC
3-skill level award for enlisted or mandatory training for upgrade to eligible officers.

MAJCOM Functional Managers (MFM). Senior leaders, designated by the appropriate functional authority
(FA) who provide day-to-day management responsibility over specific functional communities at the
MAJCOM, Field Operating Agency, Direct Reporting Unit, or Air Reserve Component level. While they
should maintain an institutional focus in regards to resource development and distribution, Functional Managers
(FM) are responsible for ensuring their specialties are equipped, developed, and sustained to meet the functional
community’s mission as well as encourage force development opportunities in order to meet future needs of the
total AF mission.

Master Task List (MTL). A comprehensive list (100%) of all tasks performed within a work center and
consisting of the current CFETP or Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS) and locally developed AF
Forms 797, Job Qualification Standard Continuation/Command JQS (as a minimum). Should include tasks
required for deployment and/or unit type code (UTC) requirements.

Master Training Plan (MTP). Employs a strategy for ensuring the completion of all work center job
requirements by using a MTL and provides milestones for task, CDC completion, and prioritizes
deployment/UTC, home station training tasks, upgrade, and qualifications tasks.
No Go. Trainee has not gained enough skill, knowledge, and experience to perform task without supervision.
Does not meet task standard.

Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational survey of
tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify personnel in both
upgrade (skill level award) and job qualification (duty position certification) training.

                                                        5
Point of Dispensing. Plan that designates specific dispensing site operational plans and standard operation
procedure, describing the dispensing of medications and/or vaccination to a large number of people for
prophylaxis of asymptomatic individuals as well as treatment of symptomatic persons.

Proficiency Training. Additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training courses, or on-
the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required for
upgrade.

Qualification Training (QT). Hands-on performance training designed to qualify personnel in a specific
position. This training occurs both during and after upgrade training to maintain qualifications.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional package designed for use at the unit to qualify, or
aid qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of equipment. It may be printed, computer-based,
or in other audiovisual media.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and equipment that
preclude desired training from being delivered.

Readiness Skill Verification Program (RSVP). Recurring training necessary to maintain skills of a fully
qualified individual to adequately perform the mission and related duties required in peacetime and wartime.

Skills Training. A formal course which results in the award of a skill level.

Specialty Training. A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (on-the-job) to qualify
and upgrade Airmen in the award of a skill level.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An AF publication that describes an AFS in terms of tasks and
knowledge an Airman in that specialty may be expected to perform or to know on the job. STSs identify the
training provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, or 7-skill level within an enlisted AFS. It further serves as a contract
between AETC and the functional user to show which of the overall training requirements for an AFSC are
taught in formal schools and correspondence courses.

Task Certifier. See Certification Official.

Third Party Certification. Is an evaluation of completed training conducted by the task certifier and is only
required when directed by the AFCFM.

Total Force. All collective AF components (Active, Reserve, Guard, and civilian elements) of the USAF.

Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-the-job, field
training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.).

Upgrade Training (UGT). Mandatory training which leads to attainment of higher level of proficiency.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum of MAJCOM AFSC FMs, subject matter experts (SMEs),
and AETC training personnel that determines career ladder training requirements.

Wartime Tasks (*). Those tasks that must be taught when courses are accelerated in a wartime environment. In
response to a wartime scenario, these tasks will be taught in the 3-level course in a streamlined training environment.
These tasks are only for those career fields that still need them applied to their schoolhouse tasks.




                                                           6
Section A - General Information

1. Purpose. This CFETP provides information necessary for AFCFMs, MAJCOM Functional Managers
MFMs, commanders, training managers, supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an
effective career field training program. This plan outlines the training that individuals in the 4P0X1 specialty
should receive in order to develop and progress throughout their career. This plan identifies initial skills,
upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency training. Initial skills training is the AFS specific training an
individual receives upon entry into the AF or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level.
Normally, this training is conducted by AETC at one of the technical training centers.

1.1. UGT identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, and correspondence course
completion requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, and 9-skill levels. Qualification training is actual hands-on
task performance training designed to qualify an Airman in a specific duty position. This training program
occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills and
knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training is formal specialty training used for selected Airmen.
Proficiency training is additional training provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond
the minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP has several purposes, these are:

1.1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field training program. It is
also used to help supervisors to identify training at the appropriate point in an individual’s career.

1.1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and recommends
education/training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.

1.1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and the training delivery
method.

1.1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired career field training
process.

2. Uses. MFMs and supervisors at all levels will use the plan to ensure comprehensive and cohesive training
programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop/revise formal resident, non-resident, field and exportable training
based on requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of the CFETP. AETC training
personnel and MFMs will also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining resources
needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial, upgrade, and
proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, contract training, or exportable courses can satisfy identified
requirements. MAJCOM-developed training to support this AFSC must be identified for inclusion into plan.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan. The lists of
courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority. Also, the AFCFM will initiate an
annual review of this document to ensure currency and accuracy. MAJCOM representatives and AETC training
personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field training requirements. Using the list of courses in Part
II, they will eliminate duplicate training.




                                                          7
Section B – Career Field Progression and Information

1. Specialty Descriptions

NOTE: Refer to Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), Pharmacy

1.1. Specialty Summary. Manages administrative and technical pharmacy activities. Requisitions, stocks,
compounds, and dispenses pharmaceuticals. Safeguards controlled drugs. Maintains and operates pharmacy
information systems. Related DoD Occupational subgroup: 131200.

1.2. Duties and Responsibilities.

1.2.1. Compounds and dispenses pharmaceuticals. Interprets prescriptions and formulas for appropriateness and
conformity with established guidelines. Confers with prescribers or patients on questions to assure desired
therapeutic outcome. Performs and verifies pharmaceutical calculations. Selects and prepares drug orders
according to accepted standards. Manufactures, labels, and stores preparations according to accepted
compendia and reference literature.

1.2.2. Performs inventory control functions. Establishes requirements, requisitions, and stores drugs and
equipment. Prepares orders needed for emergency, controlled drug, or other special items. Initiates defective
drug product complaints. Processes adverse drug reaction reports.

1.2.3. Plans and organizes pharmacy activities. Develops economical, efficient work methods and operating
procedures. Coordinates pharmacy activities with other functional areas. Develops and directs pharmacy
quality assurance programs.

1.2.4. Inspects and evaluates pharmacy activities. Conducts periodic inspections of all drug storage and usage
areas. Corrects discrepancies and maintains inspection reports.

1.2.5. Develops formulations. Assists in the development of new or modified drug formulations. Maintains
current drug information literature for pharmacy and medical staff. Participates in Pharmacy and Therapeutics
Committee functions.

1.2.6. Performs pharmacy administrative functions. Provides proper maintenance and disposal for all pertinent
Air Force and drug records. Prepares and revises Medical Facility Drug Formulary.

1.2.7. Operates and maintains data automation equipment. Performs routine cleaning and maintenance of
computer software and hardware. Revises data automation needs IAW current technology and availability.

2. Skill and Career Progression. Training and timely progression from apprentice through the superintendent
skill level plays an extremely important role in the AF’s ability to accomplish the mission. It is essential that
everyone involved in training do his or her part to plan, develop, manage, conduct, and evaluate an effective
training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will ensure individuals receive viable
training at the appropriate points in their careers. NOTE: The following narratives and the AFSC 4P0X1 career
field flowcharts, identify the training career path. The career path defines the training required in an
individual’s career.

2.1. Apprentice (3) Level. Initial skill training in this specialty consists of the tasks and knowledge training
provided in the 3-skill level Phase I and Phase II resident courses. The decision to train specific tasks and
knowledge items in the initial skills course is based on a review of the OAR data and 4P0X1 SME input. Task
and knowledge training requirements are identified in the specialty training standard Part II, Sections A and B.
Individuals must complete the initial skills courses to be awarded AFSC 4P031. Upon completion of initial
                                                        8
skills training, a trainee will work with a trainer/supervisor in on-the-job training to enhance their knowledge
and skills in pharmaceutical dispensing. Once enrolled, they will use their CDCs and task qualification training
to progress in the career field. Once task certified, a trainee may perform that task unsupervised.

2.2. Journeyman (5) Level. Once upgraded to the 5-skill level, a journeyman will maintain proficiency by
completing all continuation training required or specified by command or local policies, successfully pass the
national pharmacy technician certification exam and the Air Force Tech-Check-Tech program. Five skill level
technicians may be assigned job positions such as outpatient technician, inpatient technician, pharmacy supply
and equipment custodian, vault custodian, and pharmacy information systems manager. SrA will complete
Airman Leadership School (ALS) when selected for promotion to SSgt, after reaching 42 months Total Active
Federal Military Service (TAFMS) and selected to a 12 month tour area, or when reaching 48 months TAFMS.
Individuals will use their CDCs to prepare for testing and promotion under the Weighted Airman Promotion
System (WAPS).

2.3. Craftsman (7) Level. A pharmacy craftsman may be assigned to fill various supervisory and management
positions within the pharmacy such as Non-Commissioned Officer in Charge (NCOIC) of a satellite pharmacy
operation or NCOIC of an inpatient pharmacy. In addition, they will develop work schedules for subordinate
personnel and ensure necessary manning levels are maintained at all times during hours of pharmacy operations.
Seven skill levels should take courses or obtain additional knowledge on management of resources and
personnel, and complete the 7-skill level distance learning course (upon availability of course). Continued
academic education through CCAF and higher degree programs is encouraged. In addition, after promotion to
TSgt, individuals will attend the Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA). After 2 years, TSgts should
complete the Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy (SNCOA) correspondence course. MSgts will
complete SNCOA in residence IAW formal training guidelines.

2.4. Superintendent (9) Level. A 9-skill level may be expected to fill leadership positions which may include
Superintendent duties or various other staff positions within the Medical Group. Additional training in the areas
of budget, manpower, resources, and personnel management should be pursued through continuing education.
Additional higher education and completion of courses outside the career AFSC are also recommended. To be
awarded a 9-level, an individual must sew-on SMSgt and satisfy all duty training requirements.

3. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to encompass the
entire spectrum of training requirements for the 4P0X1 career field. The spectrum includes a strategy for when,
where, and how to meet the training requirements. The strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce
duplication of training and eliminate a disjointed approach to training. The following training decisions were
made during the 12 February 2014 U&TW.

3.1. Training requirements and standards were updated to reflect the most current and future needs of the Pharmacy
career field. A comprehensive review was conducted on Part I of the CFETP, training status codes (TSC) for each
Specialty Training Standard (STS) line item was discussed, and all changes were agreed upon by the voting
members in attendance. The decision was made to explore two courses of action (COA) for the 7-level Craftsman
course. COA 1 is to establish a 7-level Qualification Training Package (QTP) to capture requirements identified in
the CFETP. COA 2 requires a Course Resource Estimate for blended learning using Adobe Connect 9. For
additional information and specific changes to this CFETP, please reference the STRT/U&TW meeting
minutes.

3.2. Initial Skills Training. The Pharmacy Apprentice Course will be revised to meet new training
requirements set by the U&TW.

3.3. Five Level Upgrade Requirements. Completion of CDCs is mandatory before member is eligible for
upgrade to the 5-skill level. Complete all required duty position training and all required 5-level core tasks.
Note: Refer to AFI 36-2201 (6.9.6.1.2.) for locations that do not have the capability to perform inpatient

                                                         9
services. For example, Inpatient Pharmacy 5-level core tasks are not required for 5-level upgrade if the training
capability does not exist at the assigned base or at another base within the local area. There is no requirement to
send personnel TDY for core task training.

3.4. Seven Level Upgrade Requirements. Completion of applicable 7-level distance learning course (upon
availability of course), completion of all duty training requirements and 7-level core tasks, successful
completion of both the national pharmacy certification exam and the Air Force Tech-Check-Tech program are
mandatory for award of a 7-skill level. Waivers for the Air Force Tech-Check-Tech program for Airmen
assigned to a pharmacy without a qualified pharmacist to administer the program, a joint environment that does
not support the program or any other justification, must be approved by the respective MAJCOM 4P0X1 FM or
AFCFM and uploaded in AFTR.

3.5. Nine Level Upgrade Requirements. Must be a Senior Master Sergeant or Senior Master Sergeant selectee.
Completion of applicable duty position training.

3.6. Proficiency Training. Any additional knowledge and skill requirements that were not taught through initial
skills or upgrade training are assigned to continuation training. Individual pharmacy managers must develop a
continuation training program that ensures individuals in the pharmacy career field receive the necessary
training at the appropriate point in their career. The training program will identify both mandatory and optional
training requirements.

4. CCAF. Enrollment in the CCAF occurs upon completion of basic military training. CCAF provides the
opportunity to obtain an Associate in Applied Science degree. In addition to its associate degree program, the
CCAF offers the following.

4.1. CCAF Instructor Certification (CIC) Program. CCAF offers the CIC Program for qualified instructors
who teach CCAF collegiate-level courses at a CCAF-affiliated school. The purpose of the certification is to
recognize the instructor's extensive faculty development training, education and qualification required to teach a
CCAF course and formally acknowledges the instructor's practical teaching experience.

4.2. CCAF Instructional Systems Design (ISD) Certification Program. CCAF offers the ISD Certification
Program for qualified individuals who develop and/or manage CCAF courses or curriculum at CCAF affiliated
schools. The purpose of the certification is to recognize the training and education required for individuals to be
qualified to develop and manage CCAF collegiate courses. The certification also recognizes the individual's
ISD qualifications and experience in planning, developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems.
Qualified officer, enlisted, civilian, and other service curriculum writers and managers are eligible for this
certification.

4.3. Professional Manager Certification (PMC): CCAF offers the PMC for qualified senior Air Force
enlisted personnel who have demonstrated an advanced level of professional accomplishment. The purpose of
the certification is to recognize the individual’s outstanding education and training required to lead and manage
Air Force personnel and critical national defense assets. The certification also formally acknowledges the
individuals management qualifications and experience. Qualified Air Force enlisted personnel are eligible for
this certification.

4.4. Degree Requirements. Airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program. Prior to completing an
Associate's degree, the 5-skill level must be awarded and the following requirements must be met:




                                                        10
     Academic Requirements                                                   Semester Hours
     Technical Education                                                           24
     Leadership, Management and Military Studies                                    6
     Physical Education                                                             4
     General Education (3 hours in each of the following)                          15
     Oral Communication                                                             3
     Written Communication                                                          3
     Mathematics                                                                    3
     Social Science                                                                 3
     Humanities                                                                     3
     Program electives                                                             15
     Total                                                                         64

4.5. Off-duty Education. Pursing an off-duty education is a personal choice that is strongly encouraged for all
Airmen.

4.6. Education Office. First-term Airmen will receive mandatory in-processing briefings from the education
services office concerning CCAF and local opportunities. Supervisors should encourage personnel to visit the
base education service center for additional information.




                                                            11
Figure 1.1. Enlisted Career Pyramid




Figure 1.2. Development Pathway



                                      12
4P0X1 Career Path                                                                             GRADE REQUIREMENTS                                        College Degree
                                                                                                                                                         Encouraged
               Education and Training Requirements                                  Rank
Basic Military Training school                                          Average 4P0X1 Sew-On                      Special Duty Assignments

Apprentice Technical School                                                                                                                                 CDCs
(3-Skill Level)

                                                                                  6 Months                                   N/A




                                                                                 10 Months
Upgrade To Journeyman                                                                                                                                    Associates
(5-Skill Level)                                                                                                                                           Degree In
- Complete 4P051 CDCs                                                                                                        N/A                         Pharmacy
- Minimum 12 months OJT                                                                                                                                  Technology
- Minimum 9 months OJT for retrainees
- Complete all required duty position training
AF Tech-Check-Tech Certification
- Minimum 18 months TIS
- National Pharmacy Certification                                                                                             N/A

                                                                                   3 years
Airman Leadership School (ALS)                                          Trainer
- SrA with 48 months TIS or SSgt selectee                               - Qualified and certified to perform task to be trained
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt sew-on (Active         - Must attend the Air Force Training Course
  Duty only)

Upgrade To Craftsman                                                   Certifier                                                                    Bachelor Degree
(7-Skill Level)                                                        - Possess at least the grade of        •       AETC Instructor                 in Biological
- Minimum rank of SSgt                                                  SSgt with 5 skill level or            •       Recruiter                     Sciences or other
- 12 months OJT                                                        civilian equivalent                    •       MTI/MTL                          degree with
- 6 months OJT for retrainees                                          - Attend the Air Force                                                             heavy
- National Certification & AF Tech-Check-Tech pgm                      Training Course                                                              concentration in
- Complete 7 level distance learning course (if applicable)                                                                                             Biological
- Complete all required duty position training                                                                                                           Sciences


                                                                                 4.4 years
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)                                                                        •       Technical School Instructor
- Must be a TSgt or TSgt selectee                                                                             •       AETC Instructor
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt sew-on (Active Duty
only)

                                                                                 12.6 years
Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)                                                                                    •       Technical School CDC writer
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for CMSgt sew-on (Active                                              •       First Sergeant
  Duty only)                                                                                                  •       Squadron Superintendent
                                                                                                              •       MAJCOM FM
                                                                                  15 years
Upgrade to Superintendent                                                                                     •       Squadron Superintendent       Master Degree
 (9-Skill Level)                                                                                                     Career Assistant Advisor
- Minimum rank of SMSgt                                                                                       •       MAJCOM FM
- Complete duty position training
- Intermediate Executive Skills (desired not required)
                                                                                 18.8 years
Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM)                                                                                                                        
(4P000)                                                                                                              MAJCOM FM
- MAJCOM CMSgt Orientation Course                                                                                    Squadron Superintendent
- CMSgt Leadership Courses (as available)                                                                            Group Superintendent
- Intermediate Executive Skills (desired not required)                                                               Career Field Manager
                                                                                                                     CMEF
                                                                                 22 years                            Command Chief



Table 1.1. 4P0X1 Enlisted Force Development


                                                                               13
Section C – Skill Level Training Requirements

1. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of tasks and knowledge
requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each skill level in broad,
general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award and retention of each skill level.
The specific task and knowledge training requirements are identified in the STS at Part II, Sections A and B of
this CFETP.

2. Specialty Qualification. This information will be located in the official specialty description in AFECD.

2.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of pharmaceutical chemistry; pharmaceutical calculations;
pharmacology and medical ethics; pharmacy management; medical administrative procedures; quality
assurance; medical supply and local procedures; documentation management.

2.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, successful completion of one year of high school algebra or one
unit of college algebra is mandatory. Completion of high school or college courses in anatomy, physiology,
biology, chemistry, computer skills, and typing is desirable.

2.3. Training. For award of AFSC 4P031, completion of the Pharmacy Apprentice courses Phase I and Phase
II are mandatory.

2.4. 4P051. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 4P031. Also, experience in preparing, storing, or
dispensing medications.

2.5. 4P071. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 4P051. Also, experience performing or supervising
function such as compounding, storing, or dispensing medicinal preparations.

2.6. 4P091. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 4P071. Also, experience managing functions such as
those involved in administrative and technical pharmacy operations.

2.7. Other. The following are mandatory as indicated:

2.7.1. For entry into this specialty:

2.7.1.1. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards.

2.7.2. For entry, award, and retention of these AFSCs, ability to speak distinctly without speech impediment.

2.7.3. For award and retention of AFSCs 4P031/51, ability to keystroke at a rate of 25 words per minute.

2.7.4. For award and retention of AFSCs 4P091/00, ability to communicate clearly, both orally and in writing.

2.7.5. For award and retention of these AFSCs, must maintain an Air Force Network License according to
AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network Professionals.

2.8. Training Sources/Resources. For apprentice skill level training, the only sources of training are the
L8AQJ4P031 01AA and L5ABO4P031 02AA courses, developed by Medical Education & Training Campus
(METC) at Joint Base San Antonio (JBSA)-Fort Sam Houston, TX. The source for journeyman training is the
4P051 CDCs, QTPs, and locally developed training. The sources for craftsman training are QTPs, and locally
developed training.


                                                       14
Section D – Resource Constraints

1. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints that preclude optimal/desired training from
being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower. Narrative explanations of
each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what effect each constraint has on training are
included. Resource constraints will be reviewed and updated annually, as needed.

2. Apprentice Level Training. There are no resource constraints

3. Journeyman Level Training. There are no resource constraints.

NOTE: Training Standard. Train tasks to the go/no go standard of qualification. Go means the individual can
perform the task without assistance and meet local demands for accuracy, timeliness, and correct use of
procedures.

4. Craftsman Level Training. The Craftsman 7-level distance learning course is in the development phase.
Additionally, in rare cases there may be resource constraints pertaining to the AF Tech-Check-Tech program
due to lack of a training program at a joint facility, a facility with limited workload, and/or a qualified
Pharmacist to administer the 4P0X1 Air Force Pharmacy Technician Tech-Check-Tech Program. In these
instances, the respective MAJCOM 4P0X1 Functional Manager or AFCFM may grant a waiver for the Tech-
Check-Tech portion for craftsman level upgrade.

Section E – Transitional Training Guide. There are currently no transition training requirements. This area is
reserved.

Part II

Section A - Specialty Training Standard (STS)

1. Implementation. This STS will be used for 3 level technical training provided by AETC for Phase I class 25
Aug – 21 Nov 14 and Phase II class 25 Nov - 17 Dec 14. The new 5 level Journeyman A-set CDCs will be
available on or about November 2015.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:

2.1. Column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common tasks, knowledge, and technical
references (TR) necessary to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level. Column 2 (Core Tasks) identified by
a (5) or (7), indicates specialty-wide training requirements. Also in column 2, third party certification is
required on tasks marked with (#). Column 4, those tasks requiring QTP development are identified with a (X).

2.2. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and knowledge training
requirements. Use AFTR to document technician qualifications. Task certification must show a
certification/completed date. (As a minimum, complete the following: Training complete, Trainer initials and
Certifier initials when required).

2.3. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the proficiency to be
demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the task/knowledge and the career knowledge
provided by the correspondence course.

2.4. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to indicate the level of
training and knowledge provided by resident training and career development courses.

                                                       15
2.5. Use to document task when placed in AFTR, and used according to AFI 36-2201. AFCFM directs the use
of the AFTR.

2.6. A guide for development of promotion tests used in the WAPS. SNCOs with extensive practical
experience in their career fields develop Specialty Knowledge Tests at the USAF Occupational Measurement
Squadron. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development team members
as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon study references listed in the
Enlisted Promotions References Requirements Catalog (EPRRC). EPRRC is not applicable to the ARC.

2.7. Identify. MTP tasks required in an individual’s current duty position on the STS. Review the entire STS
to ensure supervisor has included all tasks that support the work center responsibilities, not just those tasks in a
specific heading area.

3. Recommendations. Identify inadequacies and recommend changes to this training standard through
channels at 937 TRG/TTS, 2931 Harney, JBSA-Fort Sam Houston, TX 78234 or use the Customer Service
Information Line, DSN 420-1080 (commercial 210-808-1080). Reference specific STS paragraphs to report
your findings.




 BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE



 OFFICIAL                                         THOMAS W. TRAVIS
                                                  Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS Surgeon General



3 Attachments:
   1. Qualitative Requirements
   2. 4P0X1 STS
   3. 4P0X1 STS Training Reference (TR) Source Summary




                                                         16
                                                                        Attachment 1
                                                                   Qualitative Requirements
                                              This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
 Name Of Trainee
 Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                            Initials (Written)        SSAN

                                              Printed Name Of Trainer Certifying Official And Written Initials
 N/I                                                                         N/I

 N/I                                                                          N/I

 N/I                                                                          N/I

 N/I                                                                          N/I

 N/I                                                                          N/I

 N/I                                                                          N/I


 N/I                                                                          N/I

 N/I                                                                          N/I



                                                     QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                                  Proficiency Code Key
                                   Scale      Definition: The individual
                                   Value
                                      1       Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (Extremely
                                              Limited)
           Task                       2       Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
       Performance                    3       Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
          Levels                      4       Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task. (Highly
                                              Proficient)
                                      a       Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)
         Task                         b       Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)
       Knowledge                      c       Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                                              (Operating Principles)
         Levels                      d        Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
                                     A        Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
        Subject                      B        Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (Principles)
       Knowledge                     C        Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
        Levels                       D        Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)
Explanations
  A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)

  A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

/x This mark is used with a proficiency level in course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.



  NOTE 1: Training references in the source summary are commercial publications or other service publications that are
  essential for OJT and mission accomplishment. Unit OJT section will consolidate the requirements for the unit they support
  and order publications through the hospital/clinic library activity.
  NOTE 2: Items in column 1 marked with a (*) are wartime tasks (tasks that must be taught when 3-level courses are
  accelerated in a wartime environment.)
  NOTE 3: Items in column 2 marked with a (5) or (7) are the core tasks for 4P career field. Additionally, items marked with
  a (#) require third-party certification.
  NOTE 4: Items in Column 4, QTP, marked with a (X) indicate tasks where a QTP is under development.




                                                                                    17
                                                         Attachment 2
                                                          4P0X1 STS
                                           2.
                                                                                                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical        Core           3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided
             References                   Task
                                                  A         B         C           D          E                 A                 B              C          D
                                                                                                       3 Skill Level       5 skill Level   7 skill Level   QTP

                                                 Tng        Tng                                                            CDC       CDC
                                                                     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Phase       Phase                   DL 7-lvl crs
                                                 Start     Compl                                                           CRS       CRS
                                                                     Initials   Initials   Initials      I           II
                                                 Date       Date                                                            A         B

1. USAF MEDICAL SERVICE
TR: AFI 44-102; CFETP 4P0X1,
PART 1, SECTION B, TR AFI 36-
2201
*1.1 Function                                                                                            A          -      B          -          -
*1.2 Mission                                                                                             A          -      B          -          -
*1.3 Organization                                                                                        A          -      B          -          -
1.4 Roles of 4P0X1 AFSC skill                                                                            A          -       -         -          -
levels
1.4.1 Achieve National Certification       7                                                             A          -       -         -          -
(PTCB)

2. MEDICAL READINESS
(Initial Medical Readiness Training
directed by AFI 41-106 and AFI 44-
102 is provided in the Basic Medical
Readiness course conducted by 937th
TRG, Completed training is
documented on AETC Form 156.
Continuing Medical Readiness
Training is the responsibility of each
medical facility.)

2.1 Specialty Prescriptions Force
Health Protection Prescription Products
(FHPPP)
2.1.1 Dispense Prescriptions                                                                             -          -      b          -          -

2.1.2 Counsel Patient on Medication                                                                      -          -      b          -          -
Administration
2.2 Home Station Medical Response                                                                        -          -      B          -          -         X
(HSMR) Principles
2.2.1 Assemble Pharmaceutical HSMR                                                                       -          -      b          -          -         X
Package
2.2.2 Maintain Pharmaceutical HSMR                                                                       -          -      b          -          -         X
Package
2.2.2 Assemble
2.3 Operate     Pharmaceutical
            Point of DispensingHSMR
                               (POD)                                                                     -          -      b          -          -         X
Package
3. OPERATIONS SECURITY
(OPSEC) VULNERABILITIES
OF AFSC 4P0X1
TR: AFI 10-701
*3.1 OPSEC Vulnerabilities of AFSC                                                                       A          -       -        -          -
4P0X1




                                                                18
                                         2.
                                                                                                             4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical     Core           3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided
              References                Task
                                                A         B         C           D          E                 A                  B              C          D
                                                                                                     3 Skill Level       5 skill Level    7 skill Level   QTP

                                               Tng        Tng                                                             CDC       CDC
                                                                   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Phase       Phase                     DL 7-lvl crs
                                               Start     Compl                                                            CRS       CRS
                                                                   Initials   Initials   Initials      I           II
                                               Date       Date                                                             A         B

4. SAFETY AND HEALTH
TR: AFOSH Standards, www.aaahc.org;
www.jointcommission.org; AFI 91-203

4.1 OSHA standards for AFSC                                                                            A             -     B         -            -
4P0X1
*4.2 Apply OSHA standards for                                                                         2b         2b        -         -            -
AFSC 4P0X1                               5
4.3 AFOSH requirements for                                                                             A             -     -         -            -
hazardous material
4.4 Adverse Drug Reaction (ADR)                                                                        A             -     B         -            -
reporting
5. PHARMACEUTICAL
FOUNDATIONS
5.1 PRACTICE OF STANDARDS
TR: AFIs, 44-102; 44-119; Pharmacy
Law Digest; www.ashp.org;
Comprehensive
Accreditation Manual for Hospitals;
www.ashp.org; www.usp797.org;
www.ismp.org; www.aaahc.org;
www.pec.ha.osd.mil;
www.hhs.gov/ocr/hippa;
www.jointcommission.org
*5.1.1 Professional ethics               5                                                             A             -     B         -         C
*5.1.2 Professional relations with                                                                     A             -     B         -            -
patients and medical personnel           5
*5.1.3 Pharmacy Law (Federal,                                                                          A             -     B         -       C
State, AF/DoD Directives, etc.)
5.1.4 Inspections surveys (UEI, Self-                                                                  A             -     B         -        C
Inspections, etc.)
5.1.4.1 Perform Self-Inspections         7                                                             a             -     b         -         c

5.1.5 Accreditation surveys (TJC,                                                                      A             -     B         -        C
AAAHC, etc.)
5.1.5.1. Perform accreditation survey    7                                                             a             -     b         -        c
self-inspection tools
5.2. CALCULATIONS
TR: Remington’s Pharmaceutical
Sciences; Pharmaceutical
Calculations

*5.2.1 Convert Units/Systems of                                                                       2a         -         -         -        2c
Weights and Measurements                5#
*5.2.2 Calculate Dosage &                                                                             2a         2b        -         -        2c
Administration Rate                     5#




                                                              19
                                         2.
                                                                                                             4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical     Core           3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided
              References                Task
                                                A         B         C           D          E                 A                 B               C          D
                                                                                                       3 Skill Level      5 skill Level   7 skill Level
                                                                                                                                                          QTP

                                               Tng        Tng                                                            CDC        CDC
                                                                   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Phase       Phase                    DL 7-lvl crs
                                               Start     Compl                                                           CRS        CRS
                                                                   Initials   Initials   Initials      I           II
                                               Date       Date                                                            A          B

*5.2.3 Perform Sterile Compounding      5#                                                            2a         2b       -           -      2c
Related Calculations
5.2.4 Perform Non-sterile Compounding                                                                 2a         2b       -           -      2c
Related Calculations                    #
5.3. CHEMISTRY
TR: Remington’s Pharmaceutical
Sciences; Goodman’s & Gillman’s
Pharmacological Basis of
Therapeutics
*5.3.1 Concept                                                                                        A            -     B            -        -
*5.3.2 Application                                                                                    A            -     B            -        -
5.4. NON-STERILE
COMPOUNDING
TR: Comprehensive Accreditation
Manual for Hospitals; Remington’s
Pharmaceutical Sciences;
Pharmaceutical Calculations; The
Art, Science, and Technology of
Pharmaceutical Compounding;
www.ashp.org; www.usp797.org;
www.aaahc.org;
www.jointcommission.org
5.4.1 Dosage forms                                                                                    A            -      -           -        -
5.4.2 Complete Quality control           #                                                            2b           -      -           -        -
forms
5.4.3 Use Weight & Measurement                                                                        2b           -      -           -        -
Devices
5.4.4 Compound Products                                                                               2b           -      -           -        -
                                         #
IAW AF Form 2381
5.4.5 Repackaging products                                                                            2b           -      -           -        -
(prepacking)
5.5. ANATOMY AND
PHYSIOLOGY
TR: Stedman’s Medical Dictionary
for Health Professions and Nursing
Illustrated
*5.5.1 Medical terminology                                                                            A            -      -          B         -
*5.5.2 Functions of human body                                                                        A            -      -          B         -
system
*5.5.3 Fluid and electrolyte balance                                                                  A            -      -          B         -




                                                              20
                                        2.
                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical     Core           3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided
             References                Task
                                               A         B         C           D          E                  A                 B              C       D
                                                                                                     3 Skill Level       5 skill level     7 skill    QTP
                                                                                                                                           Level
                                              Tng       Tng                                                              CDC        CDC
                                                                  Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Phase        Phase                     DL 7-lvl
                                              Start    Compl                                                             CRS       CRS B
                                                                  Initials   Initials   Initials      I            II                      crs
                                              Date      Date                                                              A

5.6. PHARMACOLOGY &
THERAPEUTICS
TR: Remington’s Pharmaceutical
Sciences; Goodman’s & Gillman’s
Pharmacological Basis of
Therapeutics; USP Drug
Information; Applied Therapeutics;
AHFS Drug Information; Drug Facts
& Comparison; Drug Information
handbook; Pediatric Dosage
handbook; Geriatric Dosage
Handbook; www.micromedex.com;
www.firstdatabank.com
*5.6.1 Principles                                                                                    A            -       -         B         -
*5.6.2 Specific Class/Drug                                                                           B            -       -         B        C
*5.6.3 Toxicology                                                                                    A            -       -         B         -
*5.6.4 Drug delivery devices                                                                         A            1a      -         B         -
6. INPATIENT PHARMACY
TR: AFI 44-102; CHCS Help Menu;
ASHP manual for Pharmacy
Technicians; Handbook of
Institutional Pharmacy Practice;
Comprehensive Accreditation Manual
for Hospitals; Pharmaceutical
Calculations; Trissel’s Stability of
Compounded Formulations; Trissel’s
Handbook of injectable Drugs;
King’s, Guide to Parenteral
Admixtures; www.ashp.org;
www.usp797.org;
www.jointcommission.org;
www.hhs.gov/ocr/privacy/;
www.aaahc.org
*6.1 Perform Inpatient Menu                                                                          2b          3b       -          -        -
operations (CHCS)                       5

6.1.1 Perform Essentris® Functions                                                                    -          2b       -          -        -

6.1.2 Utilize inpatient Reference       5                                                            2b          2b      -          -         -
Library
6.1.3 Sterile Products (Compounding)
*6.1.3.1 Dosage & Delivery Systems                                                                   B            -       -          -        -
*6.1.3.2 Sources of Contamination                                                                    A            -      B           -        -
6.1.3.2.1 Identify sources of                                                                         -           -       -          -        -
Contamination
*6.1.4 Compatibility and Stability                                                                   A            -      B           -        -
Principles




                                                             21
                                            2.
                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical         Core           3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided
             References                    Task
                                                   A         B         C           D          E                 A                   B             C           D
                                                                                                        3 Skill Level        5 skill Level    7 skill Level   QTP

                                                  Tng        Tng                                                              CDC       CDC
                                                                      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Phase       Phase                     DL 7-lvl crs
                                                  Start     Compl                                                             CRS       CRS
                                                                      Initials   Initials   Initials      I           II
                                                  Date       Date                                                              A         B

*6.1.4.1 Identify Compatibility and        5                                                             2b         3b         -         -        -
Stability
*6.1.5 Aseptic Technique                                                                                 A           -         B         -         -          -
Principles
*6.1.5.1 Perform Aseptic Technique         5#                                                            2b         3b         -         -         -
*6.1.6 Aseptic Environment                                                                               A              -      B         -         -
Maintenance                                5#

6.1.7 Operate Isolation Chamber                                                                             a           -      -         -         -
*6.1.8 IV Principles (IVD/IVPB/TPN)                                                                      A                     B

*6.1.8.1 Prepare IV Drips                  5#                                                            2b         3b         -         -         -
*6.1.8.2 Prepare IV Piggy Backs                                                                          2b         3b         -         -         -
                                           5#
6.1.8.3 Prepare TPN                                                                                     -           -          -         -         -


6.2 Cytotoxic & Biological Agents
6.2.1 Principles of Compounding                                                                          A              -      B         -         -
6.2.2 Prepare product                       #                                                               -           -      -                   -          X
6.2.3 Implement Accident                    #                                                               -           -      -         -         -          X
Procedures
6.2.4 Handle Waste Materials               #                                                                -           -      -         -         -          X
6.3 INPATIENT DISPENSING
*6.3.1 Principles (normal & field)                                                                       A              -      -        B          -
6.3.2 Responsibilities                                                                                   A              -      -        B          -
*6.3.3 Perform unit dose operations        5                                                             2b         2c         -         -         -
*6.3.4 Fill unit/clinic stock orders       5                                                            1a          1b         -         -         -

*6.3.5 Fill inpatient controlled drug       5#                                                              a        b         b         -         -
orders
*6.3.6 Dispense specialty prescriptions,                                                                    a           -      -        b          -
such as air evacuation.
6.3.7 Investigational drugs                                                                              A              -      -        B          -
*6.3.8 Crash carts or emergency                                                                          A          -          -        B
administration sets principles
*6.3.8.1 Maintain crash carts or            5                                                            1a         2b         -         -         -          X
emergency administration sets
*6.3.9 Inspect drug storage in patient      5                                                               a            -     b         -         -          X
care areas




                                                                 22
                                          2.
                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical       Core             3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided
             References                  Task
                                                   A         B         C           D          E                  A                  B               C          D
                                                                                                        3 Skill Level        5 skill Level    7 skill Level    QTP

                                                  Tng        Tng                                                              CDC       CDC
                                                                      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    Phase       Phase                      DL 7-lvl crs
                                                  Start     Compl                                                             CRS       CRS
                                                                      Initials   Initials   Initials       I           II
                                                  Date       Date                                                              A         B

7. OUTPATIENT PHARMACY
TR: CHCS Help Menu;
Comprehensive Accreditation
Manual for Hospitals; Pharmacy
Law Digest; ASHP manual for
Pharmacy Technicians; Handbook of
Institutional Pharmacy Practice;
www.aaahc.org; www.ashp.org;
www.hhs.gov/ocr/hipaa/;
www.jointcommission.org;
www.tricare.osd.mil/;
www.pec.ha.osd.mil/

7.1 CHCS OPERATIONS


*7.1.1 Perform Outpatient Menu            5                                                               2b         3b         -        -           -
 operations (CHCS)

*7.1.2 CHCS Support menu operations                                                                        a         -          B        -          2b

7.2 OUTPATIENT DISPENSING

*7.2.1. Pharmacy benefit options                                                                           A             -      B        -           -

*7.2.2 Receive prescription               5                                                               2b         3b         -        -           -         X
(hardcopy)
*7.2.3 Prepare label (hardcopy)           5                                                               2b         3b         -        -           -         X

*7.2.4 Process Provider Order Entry       5                                                               2b         3b         -        -           -         X
(POE) prescription
*7.2.5 Verify patient eligibility         5                                                               2b         3b         -        -           -         X
7.2.6 Patient allergy documentation                                                                       2b         3b        B         -           -
principles                                5
*7.2.6.1 Document patient allergies                                                                       2b         3b                  -           -         X
(CHCS, AHLTA, etc.)                       5

7.2.7 Clinical screening principles                                                                       A              -     B         -           -
                                             5

 *7.2.7.1 Perform clinical screening                                                                      2b         3b         -        -           -         X
functions                                    5#

*7.2.8 Fill Provider Order Entry (POE)                                                                    2b         3b         -        -           -         X
prescriptions                            5

*7.2.9 Fill hardcopy prescriptions                                                                        2b         3b         -        -           -         X
(match label to hardcopy prescription)   5

*7.2.10 Ensure prescription accuracy         5                                                            2b         3b         -        -           -         X
(correct dose, day supply etc.)


7.2.11 Fill outpatient controlled drug    5                                                               a           -         b        -           -         X
prescriptions

                                                                 23
                                           2.
                                                                                                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical        Core           3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided
             References                   Task
                                                  A         B         C           D          E               A                 B                C            D
                                                                                                        3 Skill level      5 skill level    7 skill Level   QTP

                                                 Tng        Tng                                                           CDC      CDC
                                                                     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Phase      Phase                    DL 7-lvl crs
                                                 Start     Compl                                                          CRS      CRS
                                                                     Initials   Initials   Initials      I          II
                                                 Date       Date                                                           A        B

*7.2.12 Verify prescriptions principles   5                                                             A         -       B          -            -

*7.2.13 Dispense prescriptions             5                                                            2b        3b       -         -         -            X

7.2.14 Counsel Patients                    5#                                                           2b        2b       -         -         -            -

7.2.15 Utilize outpatient Reference       5                                                             2b        2b       -         -        -
Library
7.2.16 Achieve Tech-Check-Tech            7                                                                -          -    -         -        -
certification
8. PHARMACY SUPPORT
TR: AFI 31-101; Equipment
Manufacturers’ end user
documentation; AFI 44-102;
Comprehensive Accreditation Manual
for Hospitals; Handbook of
Institutional Pharmacy Practice;
www.usp797.org; www.aaahc.org;
www.jointcommission.org

8.1. FACILITIES
8.1.1. Determine space requirements,                                                                       -          -    a         -            b
layout, lighting and ventilation for
personnel, supplies, and equipment
8.1.2 Resource Protection                                                                               A                                                   X

8.1.3 Security Principles                                                                               A             -   B          -       -
8.1.4 Perform Security Check                                                                               -          -   b          -       -              X
8.1.5 Manage Resource Protection                                                                           -          -    -         -       3c
program
8.2. Pharmacy Automation
Systems
*8.2.1 Operate Automated Dispensing                                                                     1b        2b       -         -       2c
Equipment
8.2.2 Operate automated medication                                                                     -         2b        -         -       2c
dispensing system (ex.PharmASSIST®,
ScriptPro®, Parata® etc.)

8.2.3 Operate point-of-use dispensing                                                                      -      -        -         -        -
cabinet (ex. PYXIS®)

8.2.4 Operate patient queue system (ex.                                                                    -      -        -         -        -
Q-Matic®, Trans-Lux® etc.)

8.2.5 Operate automated medication                                                                         -      -        -         -        -
pickup storage cabinet (ex. GSL®
cabinet)
8.2.6 Operate Automated Call-In Refill                                                                     -      -        -         -        -
System (ex. AudioCare®)



                                                                24
                                         2.                                                                         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical      Core           3. Certification For OJT                                        Training/Information Provided
             References                 Task
                                                A         B            C           D          E                A                    B                C           D
                                                                                                          3 Skill Level        5 skill Level    7 skill Level   QTP

                                               Tng        Tng                                                                CDC       CDC
                                                                      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Phase      Phase                        DL 7-lvl
                                               Start     Compl                                                               CRS       CRS
                                                                      Initials   Initials   Initials      I          II                         crs
                                               Date       Date                                                                A         B

8.3. SUPPLY AND INVENTORY
CONTROL ACTIVITIES
TR: AFIs, 44-102; 41-209;
Drug Topics Red Book;
www.pec.ha.osd.mil/;
www.fda.gov/cder/orange/default.ht
m; DMLSS end user documentation
www.dmmonline.dscp.dla.mil/index.
asp;

*8.3.1 Maintain stock levels             7                                                               1b         1c         -         -            2c
8.3.2 Maintain formularies                                                                                a             -     b          -            -

8.3.3 DoD Pharmaceutical                 7                                                                -             -     A          -            -
Management Principles
8.3.3.1 Monitor Best Pharm Report        7                                                                -             -     b          -         2c           X

8.3.3.2 Monitor Brand to Generic         7                                                                -             -     b          -        2c            X
Conversion
8.3.3.3 Monitor Contract Compliance      7                                                                -             -     b          -        2c            X

8.3.3.4 Perform Non-Controlled Drug      7                                                                -             -     -          -        -             X
Audits
*8.3.4 Research Pharmaceutical                                                                            a             -     b          -        2c
Sources for Requisition
8.3.5 Order Pharmaceutical Supplies                                                                       -             -     b          -          -
Manually
*8.3.6 Order Pharmaceutical Supplies     5                                                                a         -         b          -          -
using automation (ex. DMLSS)
*8.3.7 Receive Supplies                  5                                                               1b        2b          -         -          -

*8.3.8 Store Supplies                    5                                                               1b        2b          -         -          -

8.3.9 Product recall/suspension          7                                                               A              -     B          -          -
procedures
8.3.10 Maintain Pharmaceutical supply                                                                     -             -      -         -        2c
files/reports
8.3.11 Equipment and equipment                                                                           -          -         B          -          -
records maintenance principles




                                                                 25
                                             2.
                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical          Core           3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided
             References                     Task
                                                    A         B         C           D          E                 A                  B                  C         D
                                                                                                           3 Skill Level     5 skill Level       7 skill Level   QTP

                                                   Tng        Tng                                                             CDC       CDC
                                                                       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Phase       Phase                        DL 7-lvl crs
                                                   Start     Compl                                                            CRS       CRS
                                                                       Initials   Initials   Initials      I           II
                                                   Date       Date                                                             A         B

8.3.11.1 Maintain automated                                                                                -           -        -            -          -
medication dispensing system (ex.
PharmASSIST®, ScriptPro®, Parata®
etc.)

8.3.11.2 Maintain point-of-use                                                                             -           -        -            -          -
dispensing cabinet (ex. PYXIS®)

8.3.11.3 Maintain patient queue system                                                                     -           -        -            -          -
(ex. QMatic®, Trans-Lux® etc.)

8.3.11.4 Maintain automated                                                                                -           -        -            -          -
medication pickup storage cabinet (ex.
GSL® cabinet)
8.3.12 Monitor Pharmacy Returns              7                                                             a           -       b             -       2c
Program

8.4. CONTROLLED
SUBSTANCES MANAGEMENT
TR: AFI 44-102; CHCS Help Menu;
Pharmacy Law Digest;
www.aaahc.org;
www.jointcommission.org


*8.4.1 Principles                            5                                                            A            -       B             -         B
*8.4.2 Procedures                            5                                                            A            -       B             -         C         X
*8.4.3 Reports                               5                                                            A            -       B             -         C         X
*8.4.4 Forms and Files                       5                                                            A            -       B             -         C         X
                                                                                                          A            -       B             -         C         X
*8.4.5 Inventories (Daily, Disinterested,    5#
Biennial, etc.)
8.4.6 CHCS Narcotic menu operations          5                                                             -           -       B             -        C          X
principles
8.4.6.1 Perform Narcotic Menu                5                                                             -           -        -            -        c          X
operations (CHCS)
9. PHARMACY
ADMINISTRATION
TR: AFIs, 33-364; 44-102, 41-
120; Pharmacy Law Digest;
www.aaahc.org;
www.jointcommission.org


9.1 Prescription filing                                                                                    -           -       A             -          -
requirements                                 5
*9.1.1 File Prescriptions                    5                                                             a           -        -            -          -




                                                                  26
                                        2.
                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical     Core           3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided
             References                Task
                                               A         B         C           D          E                 A                      B                   C          D
                                                                                                      3 Skill Level           5 skill Level       7 skill Level
                                                                                                                                                                  QTP

                                              Tng        Tng                                                              CDC           CDC
                                                                  Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Phase       Phase                             DL 7-lvl crs
                                              Start     Compl                                                             CRS           CRS
                                                                  Initials   Initials   Initials      I           II
                                              Date       Date                                                              A             B

9.2. Outpatient forms and files                                                                       -               -   A                   -           -
maintenance requirements
*9.2.1 Maintain outpatient forms and                                                                  a           -           -           -            -
files
9.3 Inpatient forms and                                                                               -           -       A               -            -
Files maintenance requirements
*9.3.1 Maintain inpatient forms and                                                                   a           -           -           -            -
files
9.4 Records staging requirements                                                                      -           -       B               -            -

9.5 Compile Drug Utilization            7                                                             -           -           -           -           2b          X
Review (DUR), Drug Utilization
Evaluation (DUE) reports

9.6 Pharmacy Cost/Workload reports      7                                                             -           -       B               -            -          X
principles
9.7 Prepare pharmacy cost/workload      7                                                             -           -       -               -           2b          X
reports
9.8 Pharmacy & Therapeutics             7                                                            A            -       B               -           C
functions
9.9 CHCS Report Menu operations                                                                      -            -       B               -            -
principles
9.9.1 Perform Reports Menu              7                                                             a           -           -           -          2b
operations (CHCS)
9.10 CHCS Supervisory Menu                                                                            -           -       B               -           -
operations principles
9.10.1 Perform Supervisory Menu                                                                       -           -       b               -          2b
operations (CHCS)                       7
10. MANAGEMENT
TR: AFIs, 44-102; 41-120; AFECD;
CFETP 4P0X1, PART 1.


10.1 Personnel

10.1.1 Manpower Standards                                                                             -           -           -           -            -          -

10.1.2 Principles of Pharmacy                                                                         -           -           -           -           B           -
Operations Management
10.1.3 Perform dispensing line          7                                                             -           -           -           -            b          -
supervisory functions
10.2 Financial

10.2.1 Budget preparation                                                                             -           -       B               -            -

10.2.2 Budget execution                                                                               -           -       B               -            -

10.3 Operational

10.3.1 Develop Operating                                                                              -           -           -           -            b
procedures & Instructions
10.3.2 Process improvement                                                                            -           -           -           -           B



                                                             27
                                             Attachment 3
                                  4P0X1 STS Training References (TR)
                                 Technical Reference Source Summary

Accreditation Manual for Hospitals, Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals, Chicago, IL: Joint
Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals.

American Hospital Formulary Service Drug Information. Bethesda, MD: American Society of
Healthcare Pharmacists.

Anatomy and Physiology Thibodeau, Gary A.. St. Louis, Mo: Times Mirror/Mosby College
Publishing.

ASHP Manual for Pharmacy Technicians Bethesda, MD: American Society of Healthcare
Pharmacists.

Applied Therapeutics, Applied Therapeutics, Inc., Vancouver, WA.

Clinical Toxicology of Commercial Products Gleason, Marion N., et al.. Baltimore, MD: Williams &
Wilkins Co.

CHCS Instructor Training Class Material. San Diego, CA: Science Application International
Corporation.

Comprehensive Accreditation Manual for Hospitals. Joint Commission on Accreditation of
Hospitals, Chicago, IL: Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals.

Drug Facts and Comparisons, St. Louis, MO.: Facts and Comparisons, Inc.

Drug Information Handbook. Lacy, Charles, et al. Hudson, OH: Lexi-Comp, Inc.

Drug Topics Red Book     Thomas Healthcare Publications,

Geriatric Dosage Handbook Semla, Todd, et al.. Hudson, OH: Lexi-Comp, Inc.

Handbook of Injectable Drugs, Bethesda, MD: American Society of Healthcare Pharmacists.

Kings Guide to Parental Admixtures King Guide Publications, Napa, CA.

Pharmacy Practice Manual Normark, James Col., et al. Andrews Air Force Base, Washington, DC:
Associate Chief, Biomedical Science Corps for Pharmacy.

Pharmacy Certified Technician Training Manual, Michigan Pharmacists Association.

Pharmacy Law Digest. St. Louis, Missouri: Facts and Comparisons.

Pharmaceutical Calculations, Stoklosa, Mitchell and Ansel, Howard, Lea and Febiger,
Philadelphia, PA

Practice Standards, ASHP. Bethesda, MD: American Society of Healthcare Pharmacists.

                                                    28
Remington’s Pharmaceutical Sciences. Easton, PA: Mack Publishing Company.

Stedman’s Medical Dictionary for Health Professions and Nursing Illustrated, Stedman, Thomas
Lathrop.. Baltimore, MD: Williams & Wilkins.
Sterile Dosage Forms, Their Preparation and Clinical Application. Turco, Salvatore and King
Robert E. Philadelphia, PA: Lea & Febiger.

Tabor’s Cyclopedic Medical Dictionary, F.A. Davis, Philadelphia, PA

The Art, Science, and Technology of Pharmaceutical Compounding, Allen, Loyd V., American
Pharmaceutical Associations.

Trissel’s Handbook of Injectable Drugs, Young, Thomas E., M.D. Blackwell Pub

The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics Goodman-Gilman, Alfred. Elmsford, NY: Perfamon
Press, Inc.

Pediatric Dosage Handbook Taketomo, Carol, et al. Hudson, OH: Lexi-Comp, Inc.

United States Pharmacopoeia Drug Information, Taunton. MA: Rand-McNally.

AFI 10-701, Operations Securtity, 8 June 2011

AFI 31-101, Installation Security, 8 October 2009

AFI 33-364, Records Disposition Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 December 2006

AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010

AFI 41-106, Medical Readiness Program Management, 1 July 2011

AFI 41-120, Medical Resource Operations, 18 October 2001

AFI 41-209, Medical Logistics Support, 30 June 2006

AFI 44-102, Medicare Care Management, 20 January 2012

AFI 44-119, Medical Quality Operations, 16 August 2011

AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety 15 June 2012




                                                    29
Section B – Course Objective List

4. Resident Courses. If a written copy of the course objective list is required, contact pharmacy training at
DSN 420-2705 or write to 382 TRS/XYAD, 3038 William Hardee Road, Building 895, JBSA-Fort Sam
Houston, TX 78234.

5. Career Development Courses. CDC information can be obtained from the Air Force Career
Development Academy.

Section C – Support Material. There are currently no support material requirements, this area is reserved.

Section D – Training Course Index

6. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the specialty and shows how
courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field training programs. Refer to the Education &
Training Course Announcements website for complete information on the courses listed in this section.

7. Air Force In-residence Courses.

 Course Number           Course Title                                  Location
 L8AQJ4P031 01AA         Pharmacy Apprentice Course (Phase I)          JBSA-Fort Sam Houston, TX
 L5ABO4P031 02AA         Pharmacy Apprentice Course (Phase II)         JBSA-Fort Sam Houston, TX

8. Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning (AFIADL) Courses.

 Course Number             Course Title                                Location
 CDC 4P051A/4P051N         Pharmacy Journeyman                         JBSA-Fort Sam Houston, TX
 CDC 4P051B/4P051O         Pharmacy Journeyman                         JBSA-Fort Sam Houston, TX

9. Exportable Courses. QTPs are identified by a (X) in Column 4d.

10. Courses under Development/Revision.

 Course Number             Course Title                                Location
 J3ACR4P071 00AB           Pharmacy Craftsman Course                   JBSA-Fort Sam Houston, TX




                                                     31
Section E – MAJCOM Unique Requirements

Purpose: This section applies to all Pharmacy Specialty personnel assigned to all ANG units.

11. The following list of MAJCOM unique requirements is not all-inclusive.

11.1. ANG

11.1.1. Proficiency training: Upon completion of the basic pharmacy course, all Pharmacy Apprentices
will be evaluated by their Medical Group Commander to determine the need for proficiency training
requirements. ANG 4P031s may be awarded 30-60 days to obtain proficiency training.

11.1.2. Types of proficiency training:

11.1.2.1. Seasoning Training-Upon completion of basic course, (Phase I and II) this training provides unit
or equipment specific training not taught at formal training locations or for ANG personnel who are not
pursuing a civilian medical-related occupation. ANG/DPDT has pre- approved 30 days for 4P031;
additional days must be approved by ANG Career Field Functional Manager (CFFM). Seasoning days for
non-prior service personnel (NPS) is mandatory and not mandatory for prior-service personnel.

11.1.2.2. Phase III Training. Upon completion of a single basic course or the combination of
Phase I and II, (NPS and cross-trainees) 4P031s assigned to a unit that does not have the capability or
accessibility to any facilities by which the 4P031 would acquire skill proficiency verification for 5-level
upgrade may utilize this training. All Phase III Training must be approved by the ANG CFFM.

11.1.3. Proficiency training must be accomplished at an active duty treatment facility or an approved
civilian facility. During Seasoning Training/Phase III, the member will be assigned to an active
duty/civilian supervisor who will ensure that the appropriate experiences and supervision is provided to
assist the member achieve the required proficiencies.

11.1.4. Proficiency training must be accomplished immediately following graduation from technical school
(Phase I & II) consecutively without interruption for weekends or holidays. NOTE: Members are only
approved to utilize a single type of proficiency training after graduation from the basic course or the
combined Phase I & II).

11.1.5. The ANG CFFM may approve, on a case-by-case basis, 30 additional days for seasoning training.

11.1.6. To ensure between resident and clinical training, the apprentice will forward a copy of his/her
technical school certificate to his/her unit of assignment. The ANG unit will then initiate upgrade action
using AF Form 2096, Classification/On-the-Job-Training Action, to award the 3-skill level and enter the
apprentice in the appropriate TSC “B” or “F”.

11.1.7. OPR: ANG/SGAT, 3500 Fetchet Ave., Andrews AFB, MD 20762-5157, POC: SMSgt Jerilyn
Farrar, DSN: 278-8585
11.2. AFR

11.2.1. Seasoning Training Program (STP)

11.2.1.1. The purpose of this program is to provide a means to accelerate upgrade training. It will be offered
each fiscal year provided funding and training capability exists.

                                                       32
11.2.2. Upon completion of Pharmacy Apprentice course, (Phase I and II), all Pharmacy Apprentices (NPS
and cross-trainees) will complete STP IAW AFRCI 36-2204, Developing, Managing and Conducting Reserve
Training. The trainee may participate in STP for the current maximum allowable days authorized by the
AFRC CFM in conjunction with AFRC/HQ A1KE. As of publication date of this CFETP it is 42 days.

11.2.3. To ensure continuity between resident and clinical training, the apprentice will forward a copy of
his/her technical school certificate to his/her Reserve unit of assignment as soon as possible. The Reserve unit
of assignment will initiate upgrade action using AF Form 2096 to award the 3-skill level and enter the
apprentice in the appropriate TSC “B” or “F.”

11.2.4. A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) will be completed when the member returns from technical
school and in-processes with his/her Reserve unit of assignment or Reserve Wing Training office. The
purpose of the MOU is to establish the time frame of availability and rules of engagement during STP.

11.2.5. STP should be accomplished at an active duty medical treatment facility or an approved civilian
facility. During STP, the member is assigned to a supervisor who will ensure that the appropriate experiences
and training is provided to assist the member achieve the required proficiencies.

11.2.5.1. If the member’s home base of assignment does not have the capability for the member to complete
STP, the possibility for the member to receive training from another base/unit does exist.

11.2.5.2. The temporary duty location will need to validate training capability (equipment) and capacity by
verifying a MTP. The MTP and MTL are available for a qualified trainer and certifier throughout the duration
of the STP.

11.2.6. For further guidance on STP, refer to AFRCI 36-2204.

11.2.7. OPR: 531 Waldron St. Bay B, Travis AFB, CA 94535, POC: MSgt Christy Hunter, DSN: 837-3406,
christy.hunter@us.af.mil.

Section F – Documentation of Training

1. Work Center Training Plans. The purpose of this section is to provide guidelines and examples of proper
documentation for the many electronic forms used in training of all enlisted medical personnel. Training
documentation helps to assess readiness capability as well as individual strengths and weaknesses. It also aids
compliance with all The Joint Commission, Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care, and other
regulatory requirements. The enlisted training documentation has migrated from the hard copy to electronic
AFTR. AFTR is accessible from the Advance Distance Learning Service via the AF Portal. Refer to your unit
training manager (UTM) for the most current policies and guidance on training documentation.

2. Air Force Training Record. AFTR is an enterprise-wide custom training management system designed to
replace the paper-based training records system: It is the electronic equivalent of an AF Form 623, Individual
Training Record Folder and will be used by career fields within the Air Force Medical Service to document all
training actions. The AFTR allows training plans to be established by; career field/AFSC, duty position/team
member, trainee/trainer/certifier, and any group of tasks that require management, tracking, and documentation.
The AFTR components managed by the supervisor are:

2.1. Master Task List (MTL). The MTL is a list containing all the tasks that are to be trained in a work
center and is often broken out by specialty. The MTL consists of the STS; AF Form 623 Parts II and III; AF
Form 797 and AF Form 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training; and QTPs. The
                                                       33
supervisor creates the MTL by selecting tasks from the Unit Task List (UTL) produced by the UTM and the
STS.
2.2. Master Training Plan (MTP). The MTP is a list containing a schedule of training for all tasks within a
particular duty position. The MTP consists of the STS; 623 Parts II and III; AF Force Forms 797 and 1098
tasks; and QTPs. The supervisor creates the MTP by assigning training times and methods to tasks in the
duty position. Refer to AFI 36-2201 and AFH 36-2235, Volume 11, Information for Designers of
Instructional Systems Application to Unit Training, for guidance in developing the MTP.
2.3. Duty Task List (DTL). The DTL is a list containing all the tasks to be trained on in a duty position.
The DTL consists of the STS; AF Form 623 Parts II and III; AF Force Forms 797 and 1098 tasks; and QTPs.
The supervisor creates the DTL by selecting tasks from the MTL.
2.4. Individual Training Record (ITR). All training is documented in the ITR (located in AFTR). This is the
electronic version of the former Enlisted Training and Competency Folder. The ITR is made up of the AF
Form 623 Parts I, II and III; AF Forms 623a, On-The-Job Training Record Continuation Sheet, 797, 803 and
1098; QTPs and the JQS. This record is automatically populated based upon the duty position the individual
is assigned to. Refer to AFI 36-2201 for guidance in documenting training on the various forms contained
within the ITR. Maintenance of the CFETP is mandatory for all assigned MSgts and below excluding
SNCOs serving in non-dispensing environments. The 4P0X1 CFM has directed that all 4P0X1 SNCOs
performing in outpatient or inpatient drug preparation or verification functions are required to maintain a
current CFETP/STS documenting competency.
2.4.1. The AFTR provides the capability to incorporate training source documents and/or to manually
enter completed training into the ITR. The following documents will be incorporated into the ITR:
2.4.1.1. The member’s initial MTF orientation checklists to include UTM orientation, and work center
orientation.

2.4.1.2. Supervisor Initial Evaluation and annual job description review
2.4.1.3. Basic Life Support certification
2.4.1.4. National Pharmacy Technician Certification
2.4.1.5. Tech-Check-Tech Certification
2.4.1.6. AF Form 2096
2.4.1.4. METC Student Training Report (STR). METC STR documents the level of success, strengths, and
weaknesses that a student demonstrated during technical school. It is emailed to the base training manager
shortly after the graduate arrives at his/her duty station. This form is maintained in the record until 5-skill level
upgrade training is complete.
2.4.1.5. AF Form 803, Report of Task Evaluation. AF Form 803 is used to conduct and document
completion of task evaluations during training staff assisted visits, when directed by the commander, or when a
task certification requires validation.
2.4.1.6. Other forms as appropriate.
3. Documentation of Training. The purpose of this section is to provide guidelines and examples of proper
documentation on the many forms used in training personnel. Training documentation helps to assess mission
capability and readiness, individual strengths and weaknesses, resources needed to support quality patient care,
and defines requirements for individual career progression.
3.1. AF Form 797. The AF Form 797 (Figure 3.1) will be used to record training for tasks that are not
otherwise documented in the CFETP.
                                                         34
                          JOB QUALIFICATION STANDARD CONTINUATION/COMMAND JQS
                                                                      CERTIFICATION
 TASK NUMBER
                                                                                MAJCOM




                                                                                                                   COMPLETION
                TASK, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL REFERENCES




                                                                   START DATE

                                                                                CERTIFYING
                                                                                OFFICIIAL’S
                                                                               DIRECTED




                                                                                              TRAINEES
                                                                                INITIALS


                                                                                              INITIALS
                                                                               USE ONLY




                                                                                                                   DATE
    1          Turn Kiosk system on
    2          Retrieve Medication from storage location
    3          Verify all medications are correct

  TRAINEE NAME    DOG, DEPUTY A.
 AF FORM 797, AUG 02 (Electronic File) PREVIOUS EDITION IS OBSOLETE

Figure 3.1.           Sample, AF Form 797 Documentation



3.2. AF Form 1098 (Figure 3.2.). Mandatory training requirements may vary from facility to facility. At a
minimum, these requirements should be reviewed on an annual basis and updated as required.
                                 SPECIAL TASK CERTIFICATION AND RECURRING TRAINING
                                                                             EVALUATION OF TRAINING
          TASK OR                DATE       SIGNATURE      INITIAL SCORE    TYPE   FREQUENCY     DUE
        RECURRING              COMPLETE          OF          OF      OR                          DATE
         TRAINING                           CERTIFYING    TRAINEE   HOURS
            AND                               OFFICIAL
        TECHNICAL
        REFERENCES

        A                           D                  C     D                  E             F            G        H
 COTR Training                   15 Jul 13                                      91                       1 Time
  CPR Training                   15 Sep 13                                      P                        Annual   091514
                                    B.
 NAME OF TRAINEE (Last, First, Middle Initial)             GRADE                         UNIT AND OFFICE SYMBOL

                                                                                         MDSS/SGSL
 AF FORM 1098, APR 85 (Electronic File) PREVIOUS EDITION IS OBSOLETE
 DOO, SCOOBY D.                                    A1C
Figure 3.2. Sample, AF Form 1098, Recurring Mandatory Training Documentation



3.3. AF Form 623a (Figures 3.4. thru 3.7.). Use the AF Form 623a available in the AFTR to document all
progress of individual training. Document on AF Form 623a the start and completion dates of unit orientation,
and reference the date of the orientation checklist. In addition, document the member’s entry into upgrade
training, initial evaluation results, and periodic evaluations of training progress to include CDC progress.
Information on extensions, waiver requests, or breaks in training should be clearly documented. Document on
the AF Form 623a any decertification proceedings, including dates, reasons for decertification, and other
applicable information. Accomplish an initial evaluation when a new person arrives to the unit or when an
individual changes duty positions.




                                                            35
                                 ON - THE - JOB TRAINING RECORD CONTINUATION SHEET

28 Jul 2013
A1C Scooby D. Doo is assigned to the Pharmacy Flight on this date. I have been assigned as his trainer and will orient
A1C Scooby D. Doo to the Flight and Squadron using the Pharmacy Flight and Medical Support Squadron orientation checklists
located in the Master Training Plan. An initial interview was accomplished on this date. A1C Scooby D. Doo is looking forward to
working in Outpatient Pharmacy. He is enthusiastic and prepared to accept all challenges. He understands that he must ask his
trainers questions if uncertain of training provided.

Scooby D. Doo, A1C, USAF                            Deputy A. Dog, MSgt, USAF
Pharmacy Apprentice                                 NCOIC, Pharmacy

27 Aug 2013
A mid-orientation progress check was accomplished on this date. A1C Scooby D. Doo has progressed through the flight and
squadron orientation with little to no difficulty. He is almost finished with the Medical Group orientation. He completed reviews
of Operating Instructions for the Pharmacy Flight and the Medical Support Squadron. He has received his CDCs and is aware
that he should complete all four volumes in 6 months or less.

Scooby D. Doo, A1C, USAF                           Deputy A. Dog, MSgt, USAF
Pharmacy Apprentice                                NCOIC, Pharmacy

30 Sep 2013
A1C Scooby D. Doo has completed all training on the orientation requirements for the flight, squadron, and medical group. A
review of the checklists with A1C Scooby D. Doo indicates he is knowledgeable of all items discussed. A1C Scooby D. Doo stated
that he feels comfortable with the training provided and believes he is ready to be released from orientation. A1C Scooby D. Doo
has been released from orientation on this date.

Scooby D. Doo, A1C, USAF                           Deputy A. Dog, MSgt, USAF
Pharmacy Apprentice                                NCOIC, Pharmacy



LAST NAME FIRST NAME MIDDLE INITIAL
Doo, Scooby D.



AF FORM 623a, MAR 79 (IMT-V1) or (EF -V2)              PREVIOUS EDITION WILL BE USED

Figure 3.3. Sample, Orientation Documentation




                                                                36
                           ON - THE - JOB TRAINING RECORD CONTINUATION SHEET



                                              INITIAL BRIEFING

                                               (Trainee Orientation)

___________________________was briefed on the On-The-Job Training (OJT) program and how he/she fits into the
program while in upgrade training (UGT). Upgrade training was explained as a dual-channel process designed to qualify
an airman for skill level upgrade. Dual-channel OJT is a systematic reportable application of self-study and the
craftsman/apprentice principal. Trainees acquire job qualification while performing on the job under supervision. This
combination of knowledge and job position qualification constitutes the dual-channel concept.

Requirements from AFI 36-2201 were discussed. AF Forms 623, 623a, 797, 2096, and the CFETP, STS/JQS or
automated JQS, which serve to make up the individual training record, were explained. Responsibilities of the
commander, base training, unit education and training manager, immediate supervisor, trainer, and trainee were
discussed. The career development course (CDC) was briefly discussed and will be explained in detail when the CDC
arrives, if applicable.

Requirements for upgrade in AFSC 4P0X1 are: (1) satisfactory completion of CDC 4P0X1 (CDCs should be
completed in six months or less to enhance test passing opportunity); (2) supervisor’s or Task Certifier’s certification
on duty tasks and 5-level core tasks with adequate hands on training; and (3) meet minimum time in on-the-job
training (4) completion of all supervisor’s recommendation for upgrade.

Personnel in grades E-1 through E-6 (and SNCOs in retraining status) have AF Form 623 and CFETP or JQS. The
CFETP or JQS may contain 100 or more separate tasks, but it should be annotated to show only those tasks the Airman
is required to perform in the current duty position, mandatory requirements in AFI 36-2201 for upgrade, and core task
requirements. The supervisor and trainee will initial appropriate areas in the JQS to certify training is complete. In the
CFETP, the trainer, trainee, and certifier will initial appropriate areas when training is completed. After upgrade the
CFETP or JQS will continue to be used to document further qualification training.



____________________________                      ________________________                  ______

SUPERVISOR'S SIGNATURE                            TRAINEE'S SIGNATURE                       DATE



LAST NAME                      FIRST NAME                    MIDDLE INITIAL

AF FORM 623a, MAR 79 (IMT-V1) or (EF -V2)              PREVIOUS EDITION WILL BE USED

Figure 3.4.    Sample, Initial Upgrade Training Brief




                                                            37
                                     ON - THE - JOB TRAINING RECORD CONTINUATION SHEET



                                                           INITIAL EVALUATION
The purpose of the initial evaluation is to determine, specifically, the qualifications and training needs of newly assigned personnel
regardless of skill level or previous experience. The evaluation is required to be completed within 60 days after a person is PCA’d or
PCS’d to the work center.

During this evaluation you will determine individual training requirements, if any. In its simplest form, individual training
requirements are defined as: The tasks that an individual is required to perform but cannot perform.

If the member just graduated initial skills training (3 Level Technical School) then you need to start by evaluating the training he/she
received. The standard is indicated in the applicable CFETP/STS. Remember the member was not trained to the Go/No Go standard.
Do not expect the member to perform to your local qualification standard.

If the member is coming from another unit or work center, review member’s CFETP/STS. Using the Master Task Listing /Master
Training Plan, identify the tasks that are applicable to the new duty position. If some of these tasks are previously certified, then the
member will need to be task evaluated to determine if they meet the standard of performance. If they fail to meet standards, then
decertify the task and identify it as a training requirement. If the standard is met, then maintain the certification.

To ensure a complete Initial Evaluation is accomplished, follow the steps below:
        Review entire record and familiarize yourself with the documented training history.

        Interview the worker and ask about prior duty assignments, technical school experience, knowledge’s, skills, and abilities.

        Review applicable Master Task Listing (MTL) and Master Training Plan (MTP). Compare the members current qualifications to the
         requirements of the duty position identified in the MTL

        Explain AFSC, duty position, wartime/UTC training requirement, core, HST, and Formal Training Requirements (if applicable), review part 1
         and 2 of CFETP.

        Training program responsibilities (supervisor and trainee as outlined in AFI 36-2201) and CDC requirements (if applicable).

        Ensure correct AF Form 797 (if applicable).

        Remove extraneous documents from the record—keep only the documents that are needed to reflect qualifications for the current duty
         position.

        Place individual in training if needed by starting training dates for the appropriate CFETP tasks.

        If any of these tasks are certified from a previous trainer/certifier, you must validate the certification. Accomplish this by conducting a task
         evaluation for each applicable task to determine if the member meets the standard of performance.

        Identify Training Requirements. The tasks required for the duty position that the member cannot perform, become the individualized training
         requirements. Create an individualized training plan and begin the training process (if applicable).

        As you identify the tasks/training requirements, explain to the member how he or she can expect to get the training along with estimated
         completion times. Let them know how these tasks contribute to the work center and unit mission accomplishment.

        If the member is a recent Graduate of the Initial Skills Course (3 Level Tech School), evaluate the effectiveness of the instruction using the
         STS. If deficiencies are discovered the contact the Group Training Manager for assistance. These deficiencies must be reported through the
         appropriate channels.

        Sign and Date the blocks below and file it in members AFTR record.

        The following individual is appointed as your primary trainer: ____________________________

All steps required for the Initial Evaluation were complete. Findings and additional info are documented and are as follows:
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________                   ____________________                       _________
SUPERVISOR                              MEMBER                                     DATE

 LAST NAME                          FIRST NAME                           MIDDLE INITIAL

 AF FORM 623a, MAR 79 (IMT-V1) or (EF -V2)                       PREVIOUS EDITION WILL BE USED

 Figure 3.5.      Sample, Initial Evaluation
                                                                            38
                                      ON - THE - JOB TRAINING RECORD
                                            CONTINUATION SHEET

             30 Day Task Progression Template

     -CDC Status/Progression:

     -Task Progression:

     -Trainee’s Strengths:

     -Trainee’s Weakness/Corrective Action taken:

     -Trainee’s Attitude:

     -Other Supervisor comments/recommendations:


LAST NAME          FIRST NAME         MIDDLE INITIAL

AF FORM 623a, MAR 79 (IMT-V1)    PREVIOUS EDITION WILL BE USED

Figure 3.6. Sample, Task Progression Template




                                                    39
