DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                   CFETP 1C6X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                                       Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                       4 April 2012


                   AFSC 1C6X1
           SPACE SYSTEMS OPERATIONS




        CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND
              TRAINING PLAN


ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at www.e-
publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.


RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.



.


                                                                                  Page 1 of 56
Page 2 of 56
                                 SPACE BADGE HERALDY




                                     COMMAND SPACE BADGE




           SENIOR SPACE BADGE                                           BASIC SPACE BADGE




             The central globe represents the earth as viewed from space, the earth being the origin
             and control point for man’s space endeavors. The global lines of latitude and longitude
             hearken to the original 20th Air Force patch and emphasize the global nature of the Air
             Force space mission. The thrusts and vectors behind the globe represent the dynamic
             and infinite space environment. The deltoid symbolizes the Air Force’s upward thrust
             into space, the reentry vehicles of our Intercontinental Ballistic Missile force and the
             launch vehicles that place satellites in orbit. The ellipses represent orbital paths traced
             by satellites in earth orbit; the satellites symbolically depicted as four-pointed stars.
             The symmetric placement of the satellites signifies the Air Force’s worldwide
             coverage in accomplishing its mission.




BADGE            CRITERIA
                 Basic Space Badge will be awarded upon completion of Enlisted Undergraduate
Basic            Space Training (EUST) and IST. If an IST course is not available, award the
                 basic space badge upon award of the 1C631 AFSC.
                 Education: completion of Space 200
Senior           Training: completion of applicable positional training, if required
                 Experience: 72 months of satisfactory performance in a space billet
                 Education: completion of Space 300; CCAF degree (enlisted)
Command          Training: completion of applicable positional training, if required
                 Experience: 108 months of satisfactory performance in space billets


The criterion above applies only to the award of the space operations badge and does not reflect the
skill level of the wearer. Skill level award and badge award are distinct and separate processes. There
are exceptions to the chart above. Consult the Space Professional Career Opportunities Guide, AFI
11-402, and AFI 36-2903 for additional information.




                                                                                                           Page 3 of 56
                                         Table of Contents

Part I
   Preface                                                       4
   Abbreviations and Terms Explained                             5
   Section A – General Information                               10
   Section B – Career Field Progression and Information          11
   Section C – Skill Level Training Requirements                 21
   Section D – Resource Constraints                              22
   Section E – Transitional Training Guide                       23
Part II
   Section A – Specialty Training Standards                      24
   Section B – Course Objective List                             54
   Section C – Support Materials                                 54
   Section D – Training Course Index                             54
   Section E – MAJCOM Unique Requirements                        55




OPR: 392 TRS/533 TRS/TRR
Certified By: HQ USAF/A3S (CMSgt Rodney Reyes)
Supersedes: CFETP 1C6X1, 1 November 2007
Printed Pages: 55




                                                             Page 4 of 56
                       CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                   SPACE SYSTEMS OPERATIONS
                                               AFSC 1C6X1

Part I
Preface
1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and training
document that identifies life-cycle career development, mentoring, education/training requirements,
training support resources, and minimum task requirements for all active duty, AFRC, and ANG members
within this specialty. Due to the operations diversity within the career field, the use of core tasks does not
apply to the 1C6X1 AFSC or this CFETP. This CFETP will provide personnel a clear career path to
success and will instill rigor in all aspects of career field training. Note: Civilians occupying associated
positions will use Part II to support duty position qualification training. Along with the CFETP, the
Space Professional Career Opportunity Guide (COG) is a key training database available for enlisted
space operators and enlisted space leaders.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts. Supervisors use both parts to plan, manage, and control training
within the specialty.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A explains
how everyone will use the plan; Section B identifies career field progression information, duties and
responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path; Section C associates each level with specialty
qualifications (knowledge, education, experience, training, and other); and Section D indicates resource
constraints. Some examples are funds, manpower, equipment, facilities; Section E identifies transition
training guide requirements for SSgt through MSgt.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A: identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and
includes duties, tasks, TRs to support training, AETC conducted training, wartime course and core task
and correspondence course requirements. Section B: contains the COL and training standards supervisors
will use to determine if airmen satisfied training requirements. Section C: identifies available support
materials. An example is a Qualification Training Package, which may be developed to support
proficiency training; Section D identifies a training course index supervisors can use to determine
resources available to support training. Included here are both mandatory and optional courses; Section E
identifies MAJCOM unique training requirements supervisors can use to determine additional training
required for the associated qualification needs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II to
identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive effective and
efficient training at the appropriate points in their career. This plan will enable us to train today's work
force for tomorrow's jobs.




                                                                                                 Page 5 of 56
ABBREVIATIONS AND TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Space Operations School (ASOpS). The Advanced Space Operations School (ASOpS)
expands space system understanding by providing world-class, in-depth instruction of space systems,
capabilities, requirements, acquisition, strategies and policies to support Joint military operations and U.S.
National Security.

Advanced Space Training: Short, mission specific supplemental courses offered by the National
Security Space Institute (NSSI).

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). Determines training needs, requirements, and resources
for the entire career field. Sole waiver authority for training deviations.

Air Reserve Component (ARC). All units, organizations and members of the Air National Guard
(ANG) and the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC).

Annual Plan of Evaluation (APOE). An APOE is developed from the unit/system Job Performance
Requirements List (JPRL). This document is used to perform annual evaluations/certifications within the
1C6X1 AFSC. There may be a separate APOE for each crew position within the AFSC depending on the
system being trained.

Basic Mission Ready (BMR). BMR applies to 1C6X1 personnel who have completed Enlisted
Undergraduate Space Training, and Initial Skills Training (IST) only and can perform the mission under
supervision of a certified CMR (Crew Mission Ready) crew member. BMR status is not related to AFSC
skill levels, nor is it related to an SP level.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive, multipurpose
document encapsulating the entire education and training spectrum of a specialty. It outlines a logical
career growth path, training resources, and is designed to eliminate duplication and make training
identifiable and budget defensible.

Certifier. A certification official the commander assigns to determine an individual’s ability to perform a
task to required standards. The 1C6X1 AFSC does not have task certifiers; rather it uses evaluators to
administer crew position evaluations. Exception: the Joint Space Operations Center (JSpOC) uses task
certifiers to perform evaluations.

Career Opportunity Guide (COG). A comprehensive listing of Space Professionals (SP) requirements
that identifies life-cycle career development, mentoring, education/training requirements, training support
resources, and certification requirements for SP. The COG codifies every AF-owned billet within the
Space Professionalism Community. This includes AF space billets in a wide variety of joint commands,
government agencies and organizations. Information contained in the COG relative to each space billet
includes a position number, AFSC or series code, duty location, prerequisite experience (Space
Professional Experience Code--SPEC) needed to enter the position, and the applicable SPEC earned while
occupying the job. The COG website is: https://halfway.peterson.af.mil/cog.

Combat Mission Ready (CMR). CMR applies to 1C6X1 personnel who have completed Enlisted
Undergraduate Space Training, Initial Skills Training (IST) when applicable, Unit Qualification Training
(MQT), and have been successfully evaluated (if required) and certified by the appropriate certifying
official. CMR status is not related to AFSC skill levels, nor is it related to a SP level. Skill levels are
awarded in the 1C6X1 AFSC based solely on meeting Air Force defined time and grade requirements.

                                                                                                 Page 6 of 56
Conversely, CMR status is awarded by successfully completing the appropriate crew position evaluation,
regardless of the skill level held by the trainee. CMR personnel are directly responsible for completing
operational mission. Examples of CMR crew positions are individuals who process missile warning data,
individuals who track and catalog space objects, and individuals who support launch operations. See Air
Force Space Command Instruction (AFSPCI) 10-1202, Crew Operations for further details.

Core Task. Tasks Air Force Career Field Managers (AFCFMs) identify as minimum qualification
requirements within an Air Force specialty regardless of duty position. Core tasks may be specified for a
particular skill level or in general across the AFSC. The 1C6X1 career field does not have any core tasks
due to the wide variance of tasks and duties within the AFSC.

Course Training Standard (CTS). A training standard that identifies the training members will receive
in a specific course. The CTS identifies the tasks and levels of proficiency to which those tasks will be
taught and serves as a contract between Air Education and Training Command and the functional user to
show the overall training requirements taught in formal schools and correspondence courses.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training
(on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Enlisted Undergraduate Space Training (EUST). The Undergraduate Space Training course teaches
knowledge fundamentals for the enlisted Space Operations career field. The course is designed to prepare
Air Force personnel for follow-on training in one of five 1C6X1 career field mission areas: Satellite
Command and Control, Missile Warning, Space Surveillance, Space Control and Spacelift/Range
Operations. Enlisted Undergraduate Space Training (EUST) topics include: 1C6X1 career field
introduction, Air Force Space Command structure, the space environment, general spacecraft design,
orbital mechanics, and general knowledge about the five mission areas. EUST graduates continue their
specific weapon system training at follow-on, Initial Skills Training (IST) courses. Graduation from IST
results in award of the 1C631 AFSC. The EUST course is taught within the 381 TRG at Vandenberg
AFB, CA.

Evaluators. Capable individuals experienced, proficient, and current in the assigned defense/weapon
system. Evaluators in the 1C6X1 field are appointed by commanders and evaluate selected tasks in
assigned operational duty positions as governed by MAJCOM instructions.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video, or other
necessary means to supplement training.

Functional Manager (FM)—Senior leaders, designated by the appropriate functional authority (FA) who
provide day-to-day management responsibility over specific functional communities at the MAJCOM,
FOA, DRU, or ARC level. While they should maintain an institutional focus in regards to resource
development and distribution, FMs are responsible for ensuring their specialties are equipped, developed,
and sustained to meet the functional community’s mission as well as encourage force development
opportunities in order to meet future needs of the total Air Force mission.

Initial Plan of Instruction (IPOI). The IPOI is developed from the unit/system JPRL and is used to
perform Mission Qualification Training (MQT) in the 1C6X1 AFSC. Instructors use the IPOI to
document each task a trainee is trained on while undergoing crew position certification. There may be a
separate IPOI for each crew position within the AFSC depending on the system being trained.

Individual Qualification Folder (IQF). A 6-part training folder containing the crew position Individual
Plan of Instruction (IPOI). All AFSPC CMR personnel must have an IQF on file in accordance with

                                                                                             Page 7 of 56
AFSPCI 36-2202 and 14 AF guidance. 1C6X1 personnel outside AFSPC instructions will use guidance
established under this CFETP. Air Reserve Component (Reserve and National Guard) personnel will use
guidance as established by their respective command.

Initial Qualification Training (IQT). IQT is an encompassing term used by AFSPC for AETC Initial
Skills Training (IST) courses and/or supplemental courses that provide specific weapon system/duty
position training. IQT does not certify a crewmember as mission ready, but does provides the majority of
the training required to become mission ready at the units. Initial Skills Training is a formal school
course that results in an AFSC 3-skill level award for enlisted members. These formal courses are listed
in the AF web-based course catalogue. IQT is part of the total Qualification Training (QT) process for
mission ready crew positions.

Initial Skills Training (IST). A formal technical training course that results in an AFSC 3-skill level
award for enlisted or mandatory training for upgrade to qualified for officers (refer to AFI 36-2201).
These formal courses are listed in the web-based course catalogue, Education and Training Course
Announcements (ETCA) at https://rso.my.af.mil/etcacourses/default1.asp.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate, orderly but flexible process for planning,
developing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures personnel are taught in a cost-efficient way
the knowledge, skills and attitudes essential for successful job performance. See Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 36-2234, Instructional System Development, for further details.

Instructors. Capable individuals experienced, proficient, and current in the assigned space system.
Instructors in the 1C6X1 field are appointed by commanders and instruct selected tasks in assigned
operational duty positions as governed by MAJCOM instructions.

Job Performance Requirements (JPR). The tasks required of the human component of the system, the
conditions under which these tasks may be performed, and the quality standards for acceptable
performance. JPRs describe what people should do to perform their jobs.

Job Performance Requirements List (JPRL). A list of JPRs, the JPRL identifies specific system tasks
and subtasks, and the proficiency levels required for mission ready status. The JPRL is broken down by
Area/Task/Subtask, Description, Units not Affected (when used for like-units), and Proficiency Levels A,
B, or C (to include constraints, performance and standards as necessary). JPRLs may be written for a
specific mission area, a specific system, or generic enough to cover several systems. Unit/system JPRLs
are used to develop the IPOI and the Annual Plan of Evaluation (APOE).

Mission Qualification Training (MQT). Also known as OJT (On-the-Job Training), MQT is conducted
at operational units for the purposes of mission ready certification in specific duty positions.

Training Planning Team (TPT)—Comprised of the same personnel as a Utilization and
Training Workshop (U&TW), however TPTs are more intimately involved in training
development, and the range of issues is greater than is normal in the U&TW forum.

Training Requirements Analysis—A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFS to be
included in the training decision process.

Upgrade Training (UGT). Training that leads to the award of a higher skill level in an Air Force
specialty. UGT requirements are listed under Career Skill Progression in this CFETP. Other mandatory



                                                                                              Page 8 of 56
requirements are specified in the Air Force Personnel Center Enlisted Classification Directory and AFI
36-2201 and must be completed for award of 3, 5, and 7 skill level.

Mission Ready (MR). See definition under ―Combat Mission Ready‖ (CMR).

National Security Space Institute (NSSI). NSSI is the Department of Defense's single focal point for
space education and training, complementing existing space education programs at the Air University, the
Naval Postgraduate School and the Air Force Institute of Technology.

Occupational Survey Report (OSR). The Air Force Occupational Measurement Squadron (AFOMS)
compiles a detailed report showing the results of an occupational survey of tasks performed within a
particular AFS. Conducted every three years for enlisted AFSCs.

Qualification Training (QT). Hands-on performance training designed to qualify an Airman in a
specific position. This training occurs both during and after upgrade training to maintain up-to-date
qualifications.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional package designed for use at the unit to
qualify, or aid qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of equipment. It may be printed,
computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.

Plan of Instruction (POI). The POI is a training guide outlining how the training program is applied and
administered. A POI can be as simple as a syllabus of day-to-day events or as complex as using Lesson
Plans and Student Study Guides. Units develop local methods that provide verification from both
instructors and students that training has been completed.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and equipment
that preclude desired training from being delivered.

Space Professional (SP). Total population supporting the overall DoD space effort. Includes all
functional communities supporting space (operations, acquisition, communications, maintenance,
weather, logistics, intelligence, security, etc.). Enlisted SP AFSCs include 1C6X1, 1N0X1, 1N2X1,
1N5X1, and 3C1X1. Officer SP AFSCs include 13S, 61X, 62X, 63X.

Space Professional Development Program (SPDP). An AF-level personnel development program
designed to build space experts who thoroughly understand the medium of space--from concept to
sustainment--including design, acquisition, fielding, operations, maintenance. The SPDP is a multi-
faceted plan to ensure deliberate, purposeful individual development highlighted by expanded space
education, training, and experience-building opportunities. The elements of this program are formalized
through a three-level certification program to create and manage a knowledgeable community of SPs to
meet the nation’s space needs and national security objectives. SPDP is the official AF response to the
2001 Space Commission’s recommendation to ―develop the space cadre the nation needs.‖

Specialty Training. The total training process (life-cycle) used to qualify airmen in their assigned
specialty.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An AF publication that describes an AFS in terms of tasks and
knowledge an Airman in that specialty may be expected to perform or to know on the job. Also identifies
the training provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, or 7-skill level within an enlisted AFS. It further serves as a
contract between AETC and the functional user to show which of the overall training requirements for an
AFSC are taught in formal schools and correspondence courses. See CFETP Part II, for further guidance

                                                                                                Page 9 of 56
on the use of the STS. Note: Due to the numerous missions and over 500 tasks performed by 1C6X1
personnel, it is impractical to list every single task and subtask in the STS. As such, 1C6X1 personnel
use the applicable JPRs and JPRLs when training and evaluating AFSPC missions in accordance with
AFSPCI 36-2202 and 14AF guidance and document the additional training in the appropriate crew
position IPOI.

Total Force. All collective Air Force components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian elements) of the
United States Air Force.

Training and Evaluation Performance Standards (TEPS). Air Force Space Command operational
time-based task standards as established in AFSPCI 36-2203V1 and 14 AF guidance. TEPS timing
standards will not be used as real-world operational guidance. When conflict exists between real-world
operational guidance and TEPS, real-world guidance always takes precedence.

Training Capability. The ability of a unit or base to provide training. Authorities consider the
availability of equipment, qualified trainers, and study reference materials, and so on in determining a
unit’s training capability.

Training Requirements Analysis. A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFS to be included in the
training decision process.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum of AFCFM, MFMs, Subject Matter Experts
(SME), and AETC training personnel that determines and manages career field education and training
requirements. This is an executive decision meeting.

Wartime Tasks—Those tasks that must be taught when courses are accelerated in a wartime
environment. In response to a wartime scenario, these tasks will be taught in the CP Apprentice Course in
a streamlined training environment. These tasks are only for those career fields that still need them
applied to their schoolhouse tasks.




                                                                                              Page 10 of 56
Section A - General Information
1. Purpose. This CFETP provides the information necessary for AFCFMs, MAJCOM Functional
Managers (MFM), commanders, training managers, supervisors and trainers to plan, develop, manage,
and conduct an effective and efficient career field training program. The plan outlines the training
individuals in this AFS should receive in order to develop and progress throughout their career. This plan
identifies initial skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced and proficiency training. Initial skills training is
the AFS specific training an individual receives upon entry into the AF or upon retraining into this
specialty for award of the 3-skill level. Normally, this training is conducted by AETC at one of the
technical training centers. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification
requirements, and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, 9-skill
level. Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an Airman in
a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process.
It is designed to provide the performance skills and knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training
is formal specialty training used for selected airmen. Proficiency training is additional training, either in-
residence or exportable advanced training courses, or on-the-job training provided to personnel to
increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP has several
purposes—some are:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate career field training programs.
It is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an individual's career.

1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each sill level in the specialty and
recommends education and training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.

1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and the training
delivery method.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired career field
training process.

2. Uses. The plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure comprehensive and
cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty. It is maintained by the
specialty Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). The AFCFM leads a formal review of the CFETP
during the U&TW or at a career field management conference to ensure currency and accuracy.
Identified changes are forwarded to AETC by the AFCFM. MAJCOMs must not create training
programs that duplicate training provided by existing AETC courses. This plan will be used at all levels
of training (where applicable) to ensure a comprehensive and cohesive training program is available and
instituted for each individual in the career ladder.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop or revise formal resident, nonresident and exportable training
based on requirements established by the users, validated by the AFCFM, and documented in the Part II
of the CFETP. The using command and AETC will work with the AFCFM to develop procurement and
acquisition strategies to obtain resources necessary to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial, upgrade,
and proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, and contract training or exportable courses can
satisfy identified requirements. MAJCOM-developed training to support this AFSC must be
identified for inclusion into the plan.




                                                                                                 Page 11 of 56
2.3. Individual BMR/CMR certification is not linked to skill level award for the 1C6X1 AFSC.
However, each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in the Air Force
Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD) and AFI 36-2201 for award of 3, 5, and 7 skill levels. The list
of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority. Also, the AFCFM will initiate
an annual review of this document to ensure currency and accuracy. MAJCOM representatives and AETC
training personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field training requirements. Using the list of
courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.

Section B - Career Progression and Information

Specialty Description

4. Specialty Summary. Refer to AFECD, paragraph 1. Manages or performs duties in space control,
space force enhancement, and space force support. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 122100.

4.1. Duties and Responsibilities: Refer to AFECD, paragraph 2.

4.2. Doctrinal Mission Areas

4.2.1. Space control mission area. Space control (SC) capabilities attain and maintain a desired degree
of space superiority by allowing friendly forces to exploit space capabilities while denying an adversary’s
ability to do the same (e.g., surveillance, protection, prevention, and negation). The Air Force uses
counterspace as an equivalent definition of the space control mission. Counterspace aligns more
appropriately to other Air Force air and space power functions (i.e., counterair, counterland, and
countersea), provides less ambiguity, and provides common Air Force language. Combat, combat
support, and combat service support operations to ensure freedom of action in space for the United States
and its allies and, when directed, deny an adversary freedom of action in space. The space control mission
area includes: surveillance of space; protection of US and friendly space systems; prevention of an
adversary's ability to use space systems and services for purposes hostile to US national security interests;
negation of space systems and services used for purposes hostile to US national security interests; and
directly supporting battle management, command, control, communications, and intelligence.

4.2.2. Space force enhancement mission area. Space force enhancement (SFE) capabilities contribute
to maximizing the effectiveness of military air, land, sea, and space operations (e.g. ISR, warning,
communication, PNT, blue force tracking, space environment monitoring, and weather services). Combat
support operations to improve the effectiveness of military forces as well as support other intelligence,
civil, and commercial users. The space force enhancement mission area includes: ISR; integrated tactical
warning and attack assessment; command, control, and communications; position, velocity, time, and
navigation; and environmental monitoring.

4.2.3. Space support mission area. Space support (SS) capabilities provide critical launch and satellite
control infrastructure, capabilities and technologies that enable the other mission areas to effectively
perform their missions. The space support mission area includes launching and deploying space vehicles,
maintaining and sustaining spacecraft on-orbit, and deorbiting and recovering space vehicles, if required.

4.2.4. Space force application mission area. Space force application (SFA) capabilities execute
missions with weapons systems operating in, through or from space which hold terrestrial-based targets at
risk (e.g., intercontinental ballistic missiles [ICBM], ballistic missile defense, and force projection).



                                                                                               Page 12 of 56
4.3. Other Duties

4.3.1. Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR). Plans, integrates and coordinates
intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance in support of strategic and global operations and strategic
deterrence. Tasks and coordinates ISR capabilities in support of global strike, missile defense and
associated planning.

4.3.2. Space Test and Evaluation. Validates and enhances warfighter capabilities through testing and
evaluation of space systems. Responsible for planning, executing and reporting all Force Development
Evaluation, tactics and concepts testing, and command-directed testing of AFSPC's space assets.

4.3.3. Special Staff Positions. Special staff positions exist at the group, wing, NAF, MAJCOM, and Air
Staff levels. These unique positions perform various functions that support space operations, establish
policy, and provide guidance to space field forces.

5. Skill and Career Progression

5.1 Apprentice (3-Level). Initial skills training in the enlisted space systems operations career field
consists of task and knowledge training provided in the resident apprentice enlisted space operations
course listed in the formal schools catalog. Task and knowledge training requirements are identified in
the CFETP Part II STS. In order to be awarded AFSC 1C631, an individual must complete AFSC-
awarding initial skills training (IST) course in space operations. Airmen assigned to units/systems for
which there is no AFSC-awarding IST course must complete an alternative 1C6X1 IST course as
determined by the MAJCOM Functional Manager and AFCFM.

5.2. Journeyman (5-Level). To be awarded AFSC 1C651, an individual must, if required by the duty
position, pass an initial crew position evaluation, successfully complete the 5-skill level Career
Development Courses (CDC), and complete the required time in the skill level in accordance with AFI
36-2201. Individuals will use the CDCs to prepare for promotion testing under the Weighted Airman
Promotions System (WAPS). Additionally, members at this point in their career should be working
towards completing their Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) degree.

5.3. Upgrade Training. The 1C651 CDCs cover all major space operations mission areas and are
designed to take students beyond what was learned in Enlisted Undergraduate Space Training and Initial
Skills Training (IST) onto a greater understanding of space operations.

5.4. Craftsman (7) Skill Level. To be awarded AFSC 1C671, an individual must be a SSgt, and if
required by the duty position, complete all CMR training as identified in the appropriate space operations
system IPOI, pass an initial crew position evaluation, and complete requirements in accordance with AFI
36-2201. In addition, all 1C6X1 members must obtain and maintain a Top Secret Security clearance upon
award of the 7-skill level IAW the 30 March 2007 HQ AF/A3/5 DCS, Operations, Plans & Requirements
policy letter. Individuals unable to obtain the required security clearance must submit a waiver request
through the MAJCOM Functional Manager to the AFCFM.

5. 5. Superintendent (9) Skill Level. To be awarded AFSC 1C691, an individual must be a SMSgt and
hold a Top Secret security clearance. Individuals unable to obtain the required security clearance must
submit a waiver request through the MAJCOM Functional Manager to the AFCFM.

6. Space Professional Development Program (SPDP).
The focus of SPDP is to develop, through individual career management, a group of Space Professionals
(SP) with a thorough understanding of the space medium and its effective application to joint warfighting.

                                                                                              Page 13 of 56
SPDP’s goal is to build SPs who are skilled and knowledgeable in the development, application and
integration of space concepts, doctrine and capabilities to achieve national security objectives. Every
aspect of this program addresses one or more of the ―space experience‖ deficiencies identified in the
Space Commission Report.

6.1. The core of SPDP consists of five main elements:

6.1.1. A continuum of space education spread throughout each SP’s career.

6.1.2. Appropriate training for the SP’s duty position.

6.1.3. Experience coding based on SPECs.

6.1.4. A database system that tracks individual space-relevant experience, education, and training
milestones, space billet requirements and provides data for metrics on the state of Space Pros (SP) and
SPDP effectiveness.

6.1.5. A certification program that merges education, training and experience to establish three distinct
levels of space expertise.

6.2. Space Education. The foundation for SP development is a continuum of educational courses.
These courses are intended to advance the knowledge of officer, enlisted and civilian SPs. The courses
bring members together at key increments in their careers to stay current on evolving space missions,
technologies and capabilities, and to further professional relationships. Undergraduate Space Training is
taught to personnel entering the SPDP (usually accessions) to give them a foundation in space
fundamentals and indoctrinate them into this unique ―space culture.‖ Space 200 is taught to mid-career
SPs and focuses on the operational environment, the design and acquisition of space systems, and the
integration of space capabilities into joint warfighting. Finally, Space 300 is offered to SNCOs who are
level 2 and focuses on space policy, doctrine and the strategic use of space capabilities. It is designed to
prepare individuals for more senior leadership roles in National Security Space (NSS).

6.3 Space Professional Experience Codes. SPECs are experience tracking codes designed to identify
and categorize the unique space expertise that differentiates SPs from other AF professions. SPECS are
used to document the unique combination of skills possessed by individual SPs and the prerequisite
qualifications for duty in each space billet. SPECs are critical for identifying individual breadth and
depth of experience and are a major factor in determining the level of space certification.

6.4. The Space Professional Development Database (SPDD). The SPMO maintains several databases
to track SPs. These databases are based on data from the AF Military Personnel Database System
(MilPDS) that is expanded by the SPMO to include SPDP-specific data. The SPDD is updated monthly.
There are separate officer, enlisted and civilian versions that summarize individual SP experience by
SPECs, breadth and depth of experience, education, training and the resulting SPDP certification level.
This data is consolidated into a Space Professional Single Unit Retrieval Form (SURF), a one-page
personnel summary.

6.5. SPDP Certification. There are three levels of SPDP Certification, appropriately tailored for
officers, enlisted and civilian personnel serving on active duty or in the ARC. SPs progress from a
foundation of technical competency (Level 1), through demonstrated depth of knowledge and experience
in application (Level 2), to extensive knowledge and experience in space and warfighting operations
(Level 3). Criteria for the various levels are tied to the three fundamental characteristics of AF personnel
development--education, training and experience.

                                                                                               Page 14 of 56
6.5.1. Level 1 Certification Requirements: Enlisted UST, current in position/CMR, present Space Pro
Certification Brief.

6.5.2. Level 2 Certification Requirements: Space 200, current in position, 6 yrs experience in space
billets.

6.5.3. Level 3 Certification Requirements: Space 300, current in position, 9 yrs experience in space
billets.

6.6 Enlisted Undergraduate Space Training (EUST). The Enlisted Undergraduate Space Training
course provides core career field training for officers and enlisted in the basic knowledge needed to
perform the duties associated with the space and missile operations career field. The EUST course
includes an initial background in technical information in orbital mechanics, space environment,
communications, sensor fundamentals, organizations, and history. The students then receive instruction in
the five space operation disciplines that have evolved over time: Missile Warning, Satellite Command and
Control, Space Control, Spacelift/Range operations, and Space Surveillance. After graduation
from EUST, students will receive initial skills training (IST) for space operations, with the length of the
training dependent upon the mission area trained. This course is part of the Space Professional
Development concept. Graduation from IST results in award of the 1C631 AFSC. EUST training is
conducted by 381 TRG, Vandenberg AFB, CA.

6.7. Space 200. Space 200 is the mandatory mid-career course for space professional continuing
education. It develops space professionals to think critically about the application of space power. The
course investigates three major areas: Space Systems Engineering, Space Power, and Space as a
Contested Environment. In each area, students actively participate in exercises challenging them to
determine appropriate actions within a dynamic and uncertain national security environment.

6.7.1. Eligibility: Level 1 certification; 9-11 yrs TIS for SSgts, or TSgts/TSgt selects; 24 months space
experience.

6.8. Space 300. Space 300 is the mandatory capstone course for space professional continuing education.
It develops space professionals to understand national policy considerations and strategic thought within
an international geopolitical environment. Students will be able to critically address space acquisition,
capabilities, and power at the operational and strategic levels across the range of military operations as
well as space power’s strategic contributions to national security.

6.8.1. Eligibility: All SNCO Level 2 SPs.

6.9. SPDP Level 1 – Tactical Development (E-1 to E-6, Years 1 - 10)
In this entry-level phase of development, enlisted SPs should focus on developing depth in their assigned
space system.

6.9.1. Education. Basic Military Training is followed by Enlisted Undergraduate Space Training, the
first course in the continuum of space education. After completing Combat Mission Ready (CMR)
certification and Career Development Courses (CDCs), SPs should visit the base education office to
determine the amount of Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) course credit they’ve already
earned and the additional coursework they need to complete for a CCAF associate degree. Continuous
learning is necessary throughout an enlisted SP’s career, so a long-term education plan is invaluable.

6.9.2. Training. Following Undergraduate Space Training, operators attend Initial Skills Training (IST)
in their assigned weapon system, followed by Unit Qualification Training (UQT). Depending on the

                                                                                             Page 15 of 56
complexity of the system, this process may take more than a year. After attaining CMR status, enlisted
SPs are immediately enrolled in the appropriate CDCs to increase their AF skill level. Mission ready
monthly recurring training is also required. In some cases, commanders may direct ASOpS advanced
course attendance within a particular mission area.

6.9.3. Experience. The primary driver for enlisted assignments is mission requirements and is managed
through programmed training requirements. Depending on mission needs, a typical airman may have
three to four assignments during this development phase in several different SPECs. Therefore, personnel
are expected to deepen their system experience through opportunities in the following positions: line
instructors, line evaluators, operational support staff, operational group evaluation positions or Air
Education and Training Command (AETC) instructor duties. When the assignment process allows, SPs
should volunteer for positions that build on their system depth. Some examples:

6.9.3.1. Complement ground-based missile warning experience with an operational tour in a space-based
warning squadron.

6.9.3.2. After a space surveillance assignment at the 20th Space Control Squadron, deepen this
experience with an assignment to the Joint Space Operations Center.

6.9.3.3. After an assignment in the 50th Space Wing, move to the 460th Space Wing to deepen satellite
systems experience with a space-based warning assignment.

6.9.4. This initial phase is critical for acquiring technical depth and knowledge that will be built upon
during an entire career. The primary focus is on becoming a systems expert, but SPs must also
understand where they fit into the SPDP and when key career milestones need to be accomplished.
Communication is essential during this phase. Supervisors and mentors must understand many elements
of SPDP in order to provide feedback, evaluate strengths and weaknesses, and discuss career path options.

6.10. Level 2 – Operational Development (E-4 to E-6, Years 10 - 15) . In this stage of development,
enlisted SPs transition to first line supervisor and mid-level leadership/management positions. There are
still opportunities for building depth in crew positions, but most mid-level NCOs are expected to broaden
their experience as crew chiefs or Non Commissioned Officers in Charge (NCOICs). The transition from
certification Level 1 to Level 2 (and subsequently, to Level 3) should not be viewed as a specific point in
time but rather a window of opportunity for attainment. One aspect that hasn’t changed is job
performance, which is still the most important factor in determining future progression.

6.10.1. Education. Accomplished at the end of the Tactical Development phase, Space 200 deepens
understanding of space systems application and prepares members for the challenges of the next phase.
SPs should be executing their education plan and be well on their way to a CCAF degree. At this point,
individuals may consider enrolling in a bachelor’s degree or graduate-level program related to the space
profession. SPs are also encouraged to take advantage of Air University’s Associate-to-Baccalaureate
Cooperative program (AU-ABC). If a person already has a bachelor’s degree, an opportunity exists for
enlisted SPs to expand their education through the Space Education Consortium (SEC) Certificate
Program. The AFIT Graduate Space Systems degree program is another option for members with the
appropriate prerequisites to consider.

6.10.2. Training. Applicable IST/IQT/UQT/advanced courses may be required when assigned to new
mission areas.

6.10.3. Experience. The depth of experience gained in Level 1 now comes into play for mid-level staff
and leadership roles. Deep technical expertise is applied in crew chief and other key NCOIC positions.

                                                                                             Page 16 of 56
Instructor/evaluator duty at Wing level or the 381st Training Group, NSSI, and ASOpS can continue to
deepen as well as broaden space experience. Staff positions at group, wing, Numbered Air Force,
MAJCOM and Joint levels are also excellent broadening opportunities. These positions help develop
staff skills, the ability to apply expertise to space issues at higher levels, and expand one’s knowledge
and perspective of the NSS Community.

6.11. Level 3 – Strategic Development (E-7 and above, Years 15 and higher)
In this stage of development, senior enlisted SPs apply the depth and breadth of experience gained in
previous phases, combined with leadership and management skills. These individuals compete for
operations superintendent positions and other leadership roles within squadrons, groups and wings, or
serve as key staff members throughout NSS.

6.11.1. Education. Space 300 prepares individuals for these senior leadership roles. It focuses on space
policy, doctrine and the strategic use of space capabilities. By this point, enlisted SPs will have
completed their CCAF degree and may want to consider enrolling in a space-related bachelor’s degree
program. If a person already has a bachelor’s degree, the opportunity exists for enlisted SPs to expand
their education through the SEC Certificate Program. The AFIT Graduate Space Systems degree program
is another option for members with the appropriate prerequisites to consider.

6.11.2. Training. At this stage, very few detailed training courses are required. Applicable
IST/IQT/MQT/advanced courses may be required when assigned to new mission areas.

6.11.3. Experience. Level 3 SPs apply their skills to serve as a squadron flight chief, squadron
superintendent, group superintendent, MAJCOM Functional Manager, or Air Force Career Field
Manager.

6.12. Throughout their careers, SPs should pursue ongoing continuing education to keep current on key
developments in the space arena, as well as within their areas of expertise. Professional reading,
participation in space seminars and symposia, research, specialized courses and advanced degree studies
are excellent means of sustaining SP knowledge in space subject areas.

6.13. To sum up enlisted guidance, sample career paths are provided below. These are merely examples
and do not imply the existence of any ideal career path. Three different enlisted SP options are
outlined—satellite operations focus, space warning operations focus and space control operations focus.
All SP members are strongly encouraged to work with a mentor in building an achievable timeline based
on their own goals and circumstances. When diagramming a 20+ year career, it might seem a bit
intimidating to consider all the important milestones that must be accomplished. Rest assured, with
proactive mentoring, along with flexibility and a little fortitude, success will follow.




                                                                                              Page 17 of 56
                            Career Path Examples Enlisted

   Year 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
  UST                                                   Space 200                                             Space 300




                                                                    C                                    2 SWS         OG        HQ AFSPC
         IQT
   1C6             3 SOPS       SSO INST                            A
                                                    4 SPCS               11 SWS       614 AOC                          OPS       MAJCOM FM
         MQT        SSO         533 TRS                             O                                      SUPT        SUPT
                                                                    C                                                            A3 SUPT




                            4
                            6    12
         IQT
             MCH            0                                                                                     4 SOPS       OG OPS      HAF
  1C6                            SWS         1 ROPS              STRATCOM           NRO            HQ AFSPC
         MQT SBIRS          O                                                                                     SUPT         SUPT        CFM
                            S
                            S




 SPECS   Sat Sys     Nuclear          Lift           Warn           SP Control      ISR             Kinetic       War C2      Test/Trng    Sp Staff




                                                     Figure 7-1. Career Path Examples Enlisted
NOTE: For simplicity, the chart focuses on only space-related assignments and does not depict other
Career Development or broadening opportunities that all SPs may pursue at relevant points in their
careers.
7. Career Field Path. The career path pyramid below illustrates a typical career path for individuals in
the 1C6X1 AFSC.



                                                                                          CMSgt      HQ
                                                                                                    USAF
                                                                                      CEM
                                                                                               MAJCOM
                                                                                             NAF MANAGER
                                                                                                      GP / OSS
                                                                            SMSgt     SNCOA           SQ / DET
                                                                          9-Level
                                                                                           SUPERINTENDENT

                                                                        MSgt     SPACE 300
                                                                                                  JSpOC or
                                                                            J-PME                 COMMAND
                                                                          NCOA                     CENTER
                                                                 TSgt   SPACE 200
                                                                                      OGV/OSS or SQUADRON
                                                             SSgt                        NCOIC or STAFF
                                                                        AETC
                                                       7-Level      INSTRUCTOR
                                                                                             SPACE
                                                       SrA    ALS                          OPERATIONS
                                                                        MISSILE            SPACE           SPACELIFT       SATELLITE
                                             5-Level    CDC             WARNING           CONTROL                             C2

                                              Amn
                                        3 - Level                                                 EUST




                                                    Figure 7-2. Example 1C6X1 Career Pyramid




                                                                                                                                                      Page 18 of 56
Table 7-3. Enlisted Career Path
                                                                GRADE REQUIREMENTS
Education and Training Requirements             Rank        Average        Earliest        High Year Of Tenure
                                                           Promotion      Promotion                 (HYT)

Basic Military Training school
Apprentice Technical School                    Amn         6 months         N/A                      N/A
(3-Skill Level)                                 A1C       10 months
Upgrade To Journeyman                          Amn             -
(5-Skill Level)                                 A1C       10 months
- Minimum 12 months on-the-job training.        SrA          3 yrs        28 months             8 Years
- Minimum 9 months on-the-job training
for retrainees.
- Complete appropriate CDC
- Complete duty tasks determined by
supervisor
- Complete mandatory items listed in
Enlisted Classification Directory
- Supervisor recommendation and
commander approval
Airman Leadership School (ALS)                                         Trainer/Evaluator
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time in        - Qualified and certified to perform the task to be
service or a SSgt Selectee.                   trained/evaluated
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for   - Must attend formal AF Training Course
SSgt sew-on (Active Duty only).
                                              - Recommended by supervisor


Upgrade To Craftsman                            SSgt      4.4 yrs TIS      3 years              15 Years
(7-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SSgt.
- 12 months OJT. (6 months retrainees)
- Complete duty tasks determined by
supervisor
- Complete mandatory items listed in
Enlisted Classification Directory
- Supervisor recommendation and
commander approval




                                                                                                    Page 19 of 56
Noncommissioned Officer Academy                TSgt       10.61 yrs       5 years             20 years
(NCOA)                                                      TIS
- Must be a TSgt or TSgt Selectee.                        15.91 yrs
                                               MSgt                       8 years             24 years
                                                            TIS
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
MSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).
USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)               SMSgt       19.27 yrs      11 years             26 years
                                                            TIS
- Must be a SMSgt or SMSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
SMSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).
Upgrade To Superintendent                                22.85 years
                                              CMSgt                      14 years             30 years
- (9-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SMSgt.
- Supervisor recommendation and
commander approval
-TS security clearance
Upgrade to Chief Enlisted Manager             CMSgt       20.89 yrs      14 years             30 years
(CEM, AFSC 1C600)                                           TIS
- TS security clearance

                                       Table 7-3. Enlisted Career Path


  8. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to encompass
  the entire spectrum of training requirements for the 1C6 career field. The spectrum includes a strategy for
  when, where, and how to meet the training requirements. The strategy must be apparent and affordable to
  reduce duplication of training and eliminate a disjointed approach to training. Changes to training
  courses occur frequently. Requests to change courses must be submitted by the MAJCOM HQ,
  coordinated with the AFRC and ANG, and routed through the AFCFM at the Air Staff to HQ AETC for
  processing. A U&TW was held 27-30 April 2010, at Vandenberg AFB CA. The U&TW executive level
  decisions are reflected in this plan. Copies of the U&TW minutes can be obtained from MAJCOM FM or
  AFCFM.

  9. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon completion of
  basic military training. CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate in Applied Sciences
  Degree in Air & Space Operations Technology. Refer to CCAF Handbook and guidance at
  http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/publications.asp. Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is
  encouraged for all. Individuals desiring to become an AETC instructor should be actively pursuing an
  associate degree. A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern
  Association of Colleges and Schools. In addition to the associate’s degree program, CCAF offers the
  following:

  9.1. Occupational Instructor Certification. Upon completion of AETC instructor qualification training,
  consisting of the instructor methods course and supervised practice teaching, CCAF instructors who
  possess an associate degree or higher may be nominated by their school commander and commandant for
  certification as an occupational instructor.


                                                                                               Page 20 of 56
9.2. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill certification is
awarded for the primary occupational specialty. The college uses a competency based assessment process
for trade skill certification at one of four proficiency levels: Apprentice, Journeyman,
Craftsman/Supervisor, or Master Craftsman/Manager. All are transcribed on the CCAF transcript.

9.3. Degree Requirements. All airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program. The
Journeyman 5-skill level must be held at the time of program completion. The following tables indicate
the requirements and approximate college credit hours needed for the Air and Space Operations
Technology CCAF degree. Airmen are encouraged to check with the education office to determine the
amount of credit hours received from technical training.

Subject:                                                                                         Sem Hrs
Technical Education                                                                                  24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies                                                          6
Physical Education                                                                                    4
General Education                                                                                    15
Program Elective                                                                                     15
Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and Military Studies, General Education
Total                                                                                                64

9.3.1. Technical Education. (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of Technical Core
subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied from Technical Core or
Technical Elective courses.


        TECHNICAL CORE                                TECHNICAL ELECTIVE
Subject/Courses              Sem Hrs     Subject/Courses                                          Sem Hrs
CCAF Internship                 18       Basic Electronics Theory/Applications                           6
Space Systems Operations        24       Management Information Systems                                  3
Aerospace Control and           24       Solid-State Theory/Applications                                 3
Warning Systems                          Aviation/Flight Safety                                          3
Air Weapons Control             18       Programming Languages                                           6
Operations
Computer Networking              6       Technical Writing                                               3
Radio Communications             6       Space Propulsion                                                3
                                         Survival Training                                               3
                                         Astronautics                                                    3
                                         Astronomy                                                       3
                                         Computer Science                                                6


9.3.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies. (6 Semester Hours): Professional military
education, civilian management courses accepted in transfer and/or by testing credit.

9.3.3. Physical Education. (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of BMT.



                                                                                          Page 21 of 56
9.3.4. General Education. (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement with the
definitions of applicable General Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF General Catalog.

Subject:                                                                                                    Sem Hrs
Oral Communication....……..Speech                                                                                3
Written Communication.........English Composition                                                               3
Mathematics...........................Intermediate algebra or a college-level mathematics                       3
Social Science................……Anthropology, archaeology, economics, geography, government,                    3
                                        history, political science, psychology, sociology
Humanities.............................Fine Arts (Historical significance, Criticism, and Appreciation),        3
                                       foreign language, literature, philosophy, religion

Total                                                                                                          15

9.3.5. Program Elective. (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects/courses, including natural
science courses meeting GER application criteria. Six semester hours of CCAF degree applicable
technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied. See the CCAF General Catalog
for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science for this specialty.

Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements

10. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this specialty are defined in terms of tasks and
knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each skill level
in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award, and retention of each
skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements are identified in the STS at Part II,
Section A and B of this CFETP. In general, the 1C6 career field is made up of operational (crew jobs)
and functional (staff jobs) requirements.

10.1. Job Progression.

10.1.1. Operational Job Progression. This section applies to all skill levels. When personnel transfer
to an operational squadron, formal AETC training may be required. Currently, AFSPC requires
operational duty positions to be taught by AETC during formal technical training. This training may be
waived (for prior experience as an example). However, a few operational duty positions do not have IST
courses. These units have upgrade positions trained within the units.

10.1.2. Staff Job Progression. These jobs do not require formal AETC training but do require extensive
experience within the career field. Generally, it is beneficial for an individual to have been certified in
one or more of the various operational jobs within the field before filling a staff position. Tasks necessary
to function in a staff position are trained and learned at the unit.

10.2. General Skill Level Requirements.

10.2.1. Personnel assigned to an operational unit are required to become mission-ready certified in the
duty position commensurate with their grade. If they fail to do so, the next skill level may not be
awarded. NOTE: SMSgts at operational units are not required to be mission-ready certified to be
awarded the 9 skill level. However, mission requirements may necessitate positional certification.


                                                                                                     Page 22 of 56
10.2.2. Personnel assigned to staff positions (non-operational duty positions) during upgrade training
must become duty position qualified in appropriate tasks for that position.

11. Specialty Qualification. The 1C6 career field does not require any additional special qualifications
other than those described in Enlisted Classification Guide. This information is located in the AFECD,
paragraph 3.

11.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of the following: Satellite C2 and principles of satellite and
ground systems; space warning and control systems; range operations; orbital mechanics; data analysis
procedures; sensor theory; data transmission, receiving, recording, and relaying theory; and administrative
practices.

11.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school with courses in physics,
geometry, trigonometry, algebra, or computer science is desirable.

11.3. Training. For award of AFSC 1C631, completion of an initial skills training course in space
systems operations is mandatory.

11.4. Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:

11.4.1. 1C651. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1C631. Also, experience in functions such as C2
systems, telemetry processing, ground systems configuration, mission planning, anomaly resolution, or
range operations.

11.4.2. 1C671. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1C651. Also, experience performing or
supervising space systems operations functions and activities.

11.4.3. 1C691. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1C671. Also, experience managing space
systems operations activities.

11.5. Other. The following are mandatory as indicated:

11.5.1. For entry, award, and retention of AFSCs 1C611/31/51/71, physical qualification for space
operations duty according to AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards.

11.5.2. Specialty requires routine access to Secret material or similar environment. For award and
retention of AFSCs 1C6XX, completion of a current National Agency Check, Local Agency Checks and
Credit (NACLC) according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management.
NOTE: Award of the 3-skill level without a completed NACLC is authorized provided an interim Secret
clearance has been granted according to AFI 31-501.

Section D - Resource Contraints

12. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints that preclude optimal and desired
training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower. Narrative
explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what effect each constraint
has on training are included. Also included in this section are actions required, OPR, and target
completion dates. Resource constraints will be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

13. Apprentice 3-Level Training: No constraints. Changes to weapon systems, upgrades and/or
modifications, and requests for additional/new training may drive additional resources; however, these

                                                                                             Page 23 of 56
will be addressed through the Course Resource Estimate (CRE) process once identified by Training
Planning Teams or other formal meetings with appropriate coordination.

14. Journeyman 5-Level Training: No constraints.

15. Craftsman 7-Level Training: No constraints.

Section E - Transitional Training Guide
There are currently no transitional training requirements. This area is reserved.




                                                                                         Page 24 of 56
PART II

Section A – Specialty Training Standard (STS)

1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC. Implementation
date varies for each weapon system initial skills training course.

2. Purpose. As prescribed, this STS:

2.1. Lists in the column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common tasks,
knowledge, and Technical References (TR) necessary for Airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-
skill level. Column 2 (Core Tasks) would identify, by asterisk (*), specialty-wide training requirements;
however, there are no core tasks identified for this specialty. Due to the wide variety of weapon systems
and associated qualification requirements within the specialty, the career field does not have any core
tasks due to the wide variance of tasks and duties within the AFSC.

2.2. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and knowledge
training requirements. Use automated training management systems to document technician
qualifications, if available. Task certification must show a certification or completed date.

2.2.1. Unlike other career fields, the 1C6 AFSC does not train and certify by individual tasks to attain
skill level award. Certification involves the performance of many tasks simultaneously. Operational crew
duty position certification is based on grade and meeting qualification requirements, not skill level.

2.2.2. Training example: Individual training tasks, such as fire procedures, is not a standalone task.
Other stimuli (tasks) such as equipment overheating procedures will drive the performance requirement
for fire procedures. Many such tasks are performed and evaluated simultaneously along with other crew
positions.

2.2.3. Grade example: A retrainee NCO (3-level) will be trained and certified for the Crew Chief
position as this position is designated for NCOs and above. The individual’s 3-skill level will not affect
this process, and there is no requirement to wait until the individual is awarded the 5-skill level to begin
upgrading and certifying the individual to the Crew Chief position.

3. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the proficiency to
be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the task and knowledge and the
career knowledge provided by the correspondence course.

4. Qualitative Requirements. Contains the proficiency code key used to indicate the level of training and
knowledge provided by resident training and CDCs.

5. Use to document task when placed in AF Form 623, On-The-Job Training Record, and according to
AFI 36-2201, Chapter 6.

6. Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion System
(WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the AETC Airman Advancement Division,
by senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their career fields. The tests sample knowledge of
STS subject matter areas judged by test development team members as most appropriate for promotion to
higher grades. Questions are based upon study references listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual
responsibilities are in Chapter 1 of AFI 36-2605, AF Military Personnel Testing System. WAPS is not
applicable to the ANG.

                                                                                                Page 25 of 56
7. Recommendations. Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates to 381
TRG/TTV, 1472 Nevada Avenue, Suite 107, Vandenberg AFB, CA, 93437-5327. Contact the 381
TRG/TTV office at DSN 275-8865 if you have questions. For a quick response to any training concerns,
call our CSIL DSN 276-7039 anytime, or email: 381TRG.TTV-Questions@Vandenberg.af.mil.
Reference specific STS paragraphs.



BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL                                      J. KEVIN McLAUGHLIN
                                              Brigadier General, USAF
                                              Director, Space Operations




                                                                                       Page 26 of 56
This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)          Initials (Written)                                SSAN



Printed Name Of Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                        N/I


N/I                                                                        N/I


N/I                                                                        N/I


N/I                                                                        N/I


N/I                                                                        N/I


N/I                                                                        N/I


N/I                                                                        N/I


N/I                                                                        N/I




                                                 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                           PROFICIENCY CODE KEY
                           SCALE        DEFINITION: THE INDIVIDUAL
                           VALUE

                               1        Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task.
                                        (EXTREMELY LIMITED)
TASK                           2        Can do most parts of the task. Needs help only on the hardest parts. (PARTIALLY PROFICIENT)
PERFORMANCE                    3        Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (COMPETENT)
LEVELS                         4        Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task.
                                        (HIGHLY PROFICIENT)
                              a         Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (NOMENCLATURE)
*TASK *                       b         Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (PROCEDURES)
KNOWLEDGE                     c         Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
LEVELS                                  (OPERATING PRINCIPLES)
                              d         Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (ADVANCE THEORY)
                              A         Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (FACTS)
**SUBJECT **                  B         Can identify relationships of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (PRINCIPLES)
KNOWLEDGE                     C         Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (ANALYSIS)
LEVELS                        D         Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (EVALUATION)
EXPLANATIONS
Note: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during wartime..
* A task knowledge value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of a specific
   task. (Examples: b and 1b)
** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to
     any specific task or for a subject common in several tasks.
/ This mark is used to show a difference between the career field training level desire and AETC’s limited training
resources. (Example: 2b/B. The career field desire is 2b, but only a B level can be achieved due to resource
limitations.)
   No proficiency codes indicate no training is provided in the course or CDC.




                                                                                                                                  Page 27 of 56
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Enlisted Undergraduate Space                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
Training (EUST)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D          E                A                B                  C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level

                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng     Trainee   Trainer Certifier       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials   Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC

1. SPACE OVERVIEW                                                                                                              A         -       -        -       -          -
2. SPACE PROFESSIONAL                                                                                                          A         -       -        -       -          -
 DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (SPDP)
 OVERVIEW
3. COMMAND STRUCTURES                                                                                                          A         -       -        -       -          -
4. DOD SPACE MISSIONS                                                                                                           -        -       -        -       -          -
4.1. Space Imperative                                                                                                          B         -       -        -       -          -
4.2. Tailored Deterrence/New Triad                                                                                             A         -       -        -       -          -
4.3. Air Force Space Missions                                                                                                  B         -       -        -       -          -
4.4. Other Services and Agencies                                                                                               A         -       -        -       -          -
5. MILITARY SPACE HISTORY                                                                                                      A         -       -        -       -          -
6. SPACE ENVIRONMENT                                                                                                           A         -       -        -       -          -
7. BALLISTIC MISSILE MOTION                                                                                                    A         -       -        -       -          -
8. ORBIT PRINCIPLES                                                                                                            B         -       -        -       -          -
9. MANEUVERING IN SPACE                                                                                                         -        -       -        -       -          -
9.1. Transfer and Plane Changes                                                                                                B
9.2. Rendezvous                                                                                                                A
10. ORBITAL PERTURBATIONS                                                                                                      B         -       -        -       -          -
11. ATTAINING ORBIT                                                                                                            A         -       -        -       -          -
12. RE-ENTRY                                                                                                                   A         -       -        -       -          -
13. SPACE SYSTEMS ENGINEERING                                                                                                  A         -       -        -       -          -
  PROCESS
14. SATELLITE PAYLOAD DESIGN                                                                                                    -        -       -        -       -          -
14.1. Remote-sensing                                                                                                           A         -       -        -       -          -
14.2. Communications                                                                                                           A         -       -        -       -          -
14.3. Navigation                                                                                                               A         -       -        -       -          -
15. SATELLITE SUBSYSTEMS AND                                                                                                    -        -       -        -       -          -
  MAINTENANCE FUNCTIONS
15.1. Attitude Control                                                                                                         B         -       -        -       -          -
15.2. Orbit Control                                                                                                            B         -       -        -       -          -
15.3. Communication and Data-handling                                                                                          B         -       -        -       -          -
     Subsystem
15.4. Electrical Power Subsystems                                                                                              B         -       -        -       -          -
15.5. Thermal Control Subsystems                                                                                               B         -       -        -       -          -


                                                                                                                                               Page 28 of 56
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Enlisted Undergraduate Space                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
Training (EUST)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D          E                A                B                  C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level

                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng     Trainee   Trainer Certifier       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials   Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC

15.6. Structures and Mechanisms                                                                                                B         -       -        -       -          -
15.7. Maintenance Functions                                                                                                    B         -       -        -       -          -
16. ROCKET PROPULSION                                                                                                          A         -       -        -       -          -
17. LAUNCH VEHICLE                                                                                                             A         -       -        -       -          -
  SUBSYSTEMS
18. SPACE ACQUISITION                                                                                                           -        -       -        -       -          -
18.1. Acquisition Structure and                                                                                                A         -       -        -       -          -
     Processes
18.2. Space System Acquisition                                                                                                 A         -       -        -       -          -
19. SPACE SUPPORT                                                                                                               -        -       -        -       -          -
19.1. Spacelift                                                                                                                A         -       -        -       -          -
19.2. Satellite Control Networks                                                                                               A         -       -        -       -          -
20. SPACE FORCE ENHANCEMENT                                                                                                     -        -       -        -       -          -
20.1. Communication                                                                                                            A         -       -        -       -          -
20.2. Position-Navigation-Timing                                                                                               A         -       -        -       -          -
20.3. Intelligence, Surveillance and                                                                                           A         -       -        -       -          -
     Reconnaissance
20.4. Warning                                                                                                                  A         -       -        -       -          -
20.5. Weather/Environmental                                                                                                    A         -       -        -       -          -
     Monitoring
21. SPACE CONTROL                                                                                                               -        -       -        -       -          -
21.1. Space Situation Awareness                                                                                                A         -       -        -       -          -
21.2. Offensive Counter Space                                                                                                  A         -       -        -       -          -
21.3. Defensive Counter Space                                                                                                  A         -       -        -       -          -
22. SPACE SYSTEMS COMMAND                                                                                                      A         -       -        -       -          -
  AND CONTROL (C2)
23. CONTESTED ENVIRONMENT                                                                                                       -        -       -        -       -          -
23.1. Space Force Application                                                                                                  A         -       -        -       -          -
23.2. Space Support                                                                                                            A         -       -        -       -          -
23.3. Space Force Enhancement                                                                                                  A         -       -        -       -          -
23.4. Space Control (Counterspace)                                                                                             A         -       -        -       -          -
23.5. Changing Nature of the Space                                                                                             A         -       -        -       -          -
     Threat
24. LAWS, TREATIES AND POLICY                                                                                                   -        -       -        -       -          -



                                                                                                                                               Page 29 of 56
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Enlisted Undergraduate Space                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
Training (EUST)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D          E                A                B                  C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level

                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng     Trainee   Trainer Certifier       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials   Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC

24.1. Space Laws and Treaties                                                                                                  A         -       -        -       -          -
24.2. U.S. Space Policy                                                                                                        A         -       -        -       -          -
25. U.S. SPACE DOCTRINE                                                                                                        A         -       -        -       -          -
26. SPACE TACTICS, TECHNIQUES                                                                                                  A         -       -        -       -          -
  AND PROCEDURES (TTP)
27. SPACE INTEGRATION IN JOINT                                                                                                 B         -       -        -       -          -
  WARFIGHTING
28. PHONETIC ALPHABET                                                                                                          B         -       -        -       -          -
29. CYBERSPACE INTRODUCTION                                                                                                    A




                                                                                                                                               Page 30 of 56
                                                               3. Certification For OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Career Development Course (CDC)




                                               2. Core Tasks
                                                                                                                        Training/Information Provided




                                               (See Note 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                      A          B          C          D           E              A               B                C
                                                                Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                 Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials
                                                                                                                            EUST            CDC            See Note 2


 1. The Enlisted Space Operations
    Career Field
 1.1. Career progression
                                                                                                                              -              A                  -

 1.2. Career field hazards
                                                                                                                              -              A                  -

 1.3. Technical orders
                                                                                                                              -              A                  -

 1.4. Secure/non-secure
     communications                                                                                                           -               B                 -
     (non-weapon specific)
 2. The Space Professional

 2.1. The Space Commission and the
     resulting space professional                                                                                             -              A                  -
     organizations
 2.2. Foundation of military space
                                                                                                                              -              A                  -
     operations
 2.2.1. International law and treaties
                                                                                                                              -              A                  -

 2.2.2. The President's space policy
                                                                                                                              -              A                  -

 3. Space Doctrine

 3.1. DoD space doctrine
                                                                                                                              -               B                 -

 3.2. AF and AFSPC space doctrine
                                                                                                                              -               B                 -

 3.3. Structure of space organizations,
                                                                                                                              -               B                 -
     and supporting agencies
 3.4. Command relationships
                                                                                                                              -              A                  -

 3.5. Command and control of space
                                                                                                                              -              A                  -
     forces
 3.6. Crew operations (a.k.a. crew force
                                                                                                                              -              A                  -
     management)
 4. Space Threats
                                                                                                                              -              A                  -

 5. The Electromagnetic Spectrum
                                                                                                                              -              A                  -




                                                                                                                                                         Page 31 of 56
                                                               3. Certification For OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Career Development Course (CDC)




                                               2. Core Tasks
                                                                                                                        Training/Information Provided




                                               (See Note 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                      A          B          C          D           E              A               B                C
                                                                Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                 Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials
                                                                                                                            EUST            CDC            See Note 2


 6. The Space Environment

 6.1. The atmosphere
                                                                                                                              -              A                  -

 6.2. Space "theater of operations"
                                                                                                                              -              A                  -

 6.3. Hazards affecting space operations
                                                                                                                              -              A                  -

 6.4. Other effects of the space
                                                                                                                              -              A                  -
     environment
 7. Orbital Mechanics

 7.1. Laws of orbital mechanics
                                                                                                                              -               B                 -

 7.2. Satellite orbits
                                                                                                                              -               B                 -

 7.3. Ground tracks
                                                                                                                              -               B                 -

 7.4. Coordinate systems
                                                                                                                              -               B                 -

 7.5. Maneuvers
                                                                                                                              -               B                 -

 8. The Missile Warning Mission

 8.1. Space-based
                                                                                                                              -               B                 -

 8.2. Ground-based
                                                                                                                              -               B                 -

 9. Space Control Mission

 9.1. Offensive and defensive
                                                                                                                              -               B                 -
     counterspace
 9.2. Space surveillance
                                                                                                                              -               B                 -

 10. Spacelift Mission

 10.1. Spacelift fundamentals
                                                                                                                              -               B                 -

 10.2. Domestic space launch vehicle
                                                                                                                              -               B                 -
    systems




                                                                                                                                                         Page 32 of 56
                                                               3. Certification For OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Career Development Course (CDC)




                                               2. Core Tasks
                                                                                                                        Training/Information Provided




                                               (See Note 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                      A          B          C          D           E              A               B                C
                                                                Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                 Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials
                                                                                                                            EUST            CDC            See Note 2

 10.3. Foreign space launch vehicle
                                                                                                                              -               B                 -
    systems
 10.4. Range fundamentals
                                                                                                                              -               B                 -

 11. Satellite Command and Control
    (Sat C2) Mission
 11.1. General satellite design
                                                                                                                              -               B                 -

 11.2. Sat C2 fundamentals
                                                                                                                              -               B                 -

 11.3. Air Force Satellite Control
                                                                                                                              -               B                 -
    Network

 12. Space Acquisition
                                                                                                                              -               -                 -

 13. Miscellaneous Information
                                                                                                                              -              A                  -

 .




                                                                                                                                                         Page 33 of 56
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
ACTIVE SPACE                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
SURVEILLANCE
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D          E                A                B                  C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level

                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng     Trainee   Trainer Certifier       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials   Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC

1. MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS
1.1. Radar System Characteristics                                                                                              B         -       -        -       -          -
1.2. Mission Equipment                                                                                                         B         -       -        -       -          -
1.3. Operate Peripheral Equipment                                                                                              2b        -       -        -       -          -
1.4. Perform Voice/Data                                                                                                        2b        -       -        -       -          -
    Communication Actions
1.5. Perform Contingency Procedures                                                                                            2b        -       -        -       -          -
1.6. Perform Operational Reporting                                                                                             3b        -       -        -       -          -
1.7. Communications Security                                                                                                   B         -       -        -       -          -
    Procedures
1.8. Perform Shift Change/End of Zulu                                                                                          2b        -       -        -       -          -
    Day Procedures
1.9. Logging Procedures                                                                                                        B         -       -        -       -          -
1.10. Perform Routine Crew Operations                                                                                          3b        -       -        -       -          -
2. STATUS MONITORING
2.1. Perform Electromagnetic                                                                                                   3b        -       -        -       -          -
    Interference Procedures
2.2. Perform Communications Failure                                                                                            3b        -       -        -       -          -
    Procedures
2.3. Perform Corrective/Preventative                                                                                           3b        -       -        -       -          -
    Maintenance Procedures
2.4. Perform Change of Command &                                                                                               3b        -       -        -       -          -
    Control Procedures
3. MISSION PROCEDURES
3.1. Perform Database Management                                                                                               3b        -       -        -       -          -
    Procedures
3.2. Perform Time Sharing Operation                                                                                            3b        -       -        -       -          -
    Jobs
3.3. Perform Launch/Spacetrack                                                                                                 3b        -       -        -       -          -
    Procedures
3.4. Perform Spacetrack Catalog                                                                                                3b        -       -        -       -          -
    Management
4. PERFORM CREW                                                                                                                2b
    COORDINATION AND
    PRIORITIZATION TASKS




                                                                                                                                               Page 34 of 56
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Phased Array Warning System                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See Note)
(PAWS)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D          E                A                B                  C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level

                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng     Trainee   Trainer Certifier       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials   Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC

1. MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS
1.1. PAVE PAWS System                                                                                                          B         -       -        -       -          -
    Characteristics
1.2. Perform Contingency Procedures                                                                                            3c        -       -        -       -          -
1.3. Perform Crew Actions                                                                                                      2b        -       -        -       -          -
1.4. Operate Mission Equipment                                                                                                 2b        -       -        -       -          -
1.5. Perform OPSEC/COMSEC                                                                                                      2b        -       -        -       -          -
    Procedures
1.6. Perform Operational Reporting                                                                                             3c        -       -        -       -          -
1.7. Perform Voice/Data                                                                                                        2b        -       -        -       -          -
    Communications Actions
1.8. Perform Test Control Procedures                                                                                           2b        -       -        -       -          -
2. STATUS MONITORING
2.1. Perform Electromagnetic                                                                                                   3c        -       -        -       -          -
    Interference Procedures
2.2. Perform Fault Anomaly Resolution                                                                                          2b        -       -        -       -          -
    Procedures
2.3. Perform Preventive Maintenance                                                                                            3c        -       -        -       -          -
    Procedures
2.4. Perform Change of Command and                                                                                             3c        -       -        -       -          -
    Control Procedures
2.5. Perform Power Transfer/Failure                                                                                            3c        -       -        -       -          -
    Procedures
2.6. Perform Severe Clutter Procedures                                                                                         2b        -       -        -       -          -
3. MISSION PROCEDURES
3.1. Perform Site Reporting Procedures                                                                                         3c        -       -        -       -          -
3.2. Perform Database Management                                                                                               3c        -       -        -       -          -
    Procedures
3.3. Perform Launch/Spacetrack                                                                                                 2b        -       -        -       -          -
    Procedures
3.4. Perform Radar Control Functions                                                                                           2b        -       -        -       -          -
4. EMERGENCY PROCEDURES
4.1. Perform Fire Overheat Procedures                                                                                          2b        -       -        -       -          -
4.2. Perform Security Procedures                                                                                               3c        -       -        -       -          -
4.3. Perform Evacuation Procedures                                                                                             2b        -       -        -       -          -




                                                                                                                                                     Page 35 of 56
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Phased Array Warning System                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See Note)
(PAWS)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D          E                A                B                  C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level

                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng     Trainee   Trainer Certifier       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials   Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC

4.4. Perform Emergency Fault                                                                                                   2b        -       -        -       -          -
    Procedures
5. PERFORM CREW                                                                                                                2b
    COORDINATION AND
    PRIORITIZATION TASKS




                                                                                                                                                     Page 36 of 56
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Perimeter Acquisition Radar Attack                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Note)
Characterization System (PARCS)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D          E                A                B                  C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level

                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng     Trainee   Trainer Certifier       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials   Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC

1. PARCS KNOWLEDGE
1.1. Radar Fundamentals                                                                                                        A         -       -        -       -          -
1.2. Weapon System Knowledge                                                                                                   A         -       -        -       -          -
1.3. Orbital Mechanics                                                                                                         A         -       -        -       -          -
1.4. Organizational Relationships                                                                                              A         -       -        -       -          -
1.5. Crew Operations                                                                                                           A         -       -        -       -          -
2. MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS
2.1. Perform Crew Changeover/Shift                                                                                             3b        -       -        -       -          -
     Actions
2.2. Operate Mission Equipment                                                                                                 2b        -       -        -       -          -
2.3. Perform Contingency Procedures                                                                                            3b        -       -        -       -          -
2.4. Perform Operation Security                                                                                                3b        -       -        -       -          -
     (OPSEC) Procedures
2.5. Perform Communication Security                                                                                            3b        -       -        -       -          -
    (COMSEC) Procedures
2.6. Perform Operational Report                                                                                                2b        -       -        -       -          -
    (OPREP) -3 Incident Reporting
    Procedures
2.7. Perform Test Control Procedures                                                                                           2b        -       -        -       -          -
3. STATUS MONITORING
3.1. Perform Electronic Magnetic                                                                                               2b        -       -        -       -          -
     Interference (EMI) Procedures
3.2. Perform Voice Communication                                                                                               2b
     Failure Procedures
3.3. Perform Miscellaneous System                                                                                              2b        -       -        -       -          -
     Fault Procedures
3.4. Perform Preventive Maintenance                                                                                            2b        -       -        -       -          -
     Procedures
3.5. Perform Command and Control                                                                                               3b        -       -        -       -          -
     Change Actions
3.6. Perform Power Transfer Procedures                                                                                         2b        -       -        -       -          -
3.7. Perform Communications                                                                                                    2b        -       -        -       -          -
    Sustainment Actions
4. MISSION PROCEDURES
4.1. Perform Site Reporting Actions                                                                                            3b        -       -        -       -          -
 4.2. Perform Search Procedures                                                                                                2b        -       -        -       -          -



                                                                                                                                               Page 37 of 56
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Perimeter Acquisition Radar Attack                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Note)
Characterization System (PARCS)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D          E                A                B                  C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level

                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng     Trainee   Trainer Certifier       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials   Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC

 4.3. Perform Normal Spacetrack                                                                                                2b        -       -        -       -          -
      Actions
4.4. Perform Break-up Procedures                                                                                               2b        -       -        -       -          -
4.5. Perform New Foreign Launch                                                                                                2b        -       -        -       -          -
     Procedures
4.6. Perform Pre-Planned Procedures                                                                                            2b        -       -        -       -          -
4.7. Perform Space Object Identification                                                                                       2b        -       -        -       -          -
     (SOI) Procedures
4.8. Perform Spacetrack Catalog                                                                                                3b        -       -        -       -          -
     Management
4.9. Perform Radar Restriction                                                                                                 3b        -       -        -       -          -
     Procedures
5. EMERGENCY PROCEDURES
5.1. Perform Fire/Overheat Procedures                                                                                          3b        -       -        -       -          -
5.2. Perform Physical Security                                                                                                 3b        -       -        -       -          -
    Violations Procedures
5.3. Perform Total Evacuation                                                                                                  3b        -       -        -       -          -
    Procedures
5.4. Perform Emergency Fault                                                                                                   3b        -       -        -       -          -
    Procedures
6. PERFORM CREW                                                                                                                2b        -       -        -       -          -
 COORDINATION AND
 PRIORITIZATION TASKS




                                                                                                                                               Page 38 of 56
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Upgraded Early Warning Radar                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
(UEWR)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D          E                A                B                  C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level

                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng     Trainee   Trainer Certifier       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials   Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC

1. MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS
1.1. UEWR System Characteristics                                                                                               B         -       -        -       -          -
1.2. Perform Crew Actions                                                                                                      2b        -       -        -       -          -
1.3. Operate Mission Equipment                                                                                                 2b        -       -        -       -          -
1.4. OPSEC/COMSEC                                                                                                              B         -       -        -       -          -
1.5. Operational Reporting                                                                                                     B         -       -        -       -          -
1.6. Perform Voice/Data                                                                                                        2b        -       -        -       -          -
    Communications Actions
1.7. Perform Test Control Procedures                                                                                           2b        -       -        -       -          -
2. STATUS MONITORING
2.1. Perform Electromagnetic                                                                                                   3b        -       -        -       -          -
    Interference Procedures
2.2. Perform Fault Anomaly Resolution                                                                                          3b        -       -        -       -          -
    Procedures
2.3. Perform Preventive Maintenance                                                                                            3b        -       -        -       -          -
    Procedures
2.4. Perform Change of Command and                                                                                             3b        -       -        -       -          -
    Control Procedures
2.5. Perform Power Transfer/Failure                                                                                            3b        -       -        -       -          -
    Procedures
2.6. Perform Severe Clutter Procedures                                                                                         2b        -       -        -       -          -
3. MISSION PROCEDURES
3.1. Perform Site Reporting Procedures                                                                                         3b        -       -        -       -          -
3.2. Perform Spacetrack Procedures                                                                                             3b        -       -        -       -          -
3.3. Perform New Foreign Launch                                                                                                3b        -       -        -       -          -
    Procedures
3.4. Perform Pre-Planned Launch                                                                                                3b        -       -        -       -          -
    Procedures
3.5. Perform Spacetrack Catalog                                                                                                3b        -       -        -       -          -
    Management
3.6. Perform Space Object Identification                                                                                       3b        -       -        -       -          -
    Procedures
4. EMERGENCY PROCEDURES
4.1. Perform Contingency Procedures                                                                                            3b        -       -        -       -          -
4.2. Perform Fire/Overheat Procedures                                                                                          3b        -       -        -       -          -




                                                                                                                                               Page 39 of 56
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Upgraded Early Warning Radar                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
(UEWR)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D          E                A                B                  C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level

                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng     Trainee   Trainer Certifier       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials   Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC

4.3. Perform Security Procedures                                                                                               3b        -       -        -       -          -
4.4. Perform Evacuation Procedures                                                                                             3b        -       -        -       -          -
4.5. Perform Emergency Faults                                                                                                  3b        -       -        -       -          -
    Procedures
5. PERFORM CREW                                                                                                                2b        -       -        -       -          -
    COORDINATION AND
    PRIORITIZATION TASKS




                                                                                                                                               Page 40 of 56
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Global Positioning System (GPS)                                                                                             Training/Information Provided (See Note)
Satellite Systems Operator (SSO)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D          E                A                B                  C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level

                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng     Trainee   Trainer Certifier       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials   Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC

1. SPACE FUNDAMENTALS                                                                                                           -        -       -        -       -          -
1.1. Exploitation of Space                                                                                                     A         -       -        -       -          -
1.2. Spacecraft Orientation                                                                                                    A         -       -        -       -          -
1.3. Satellite Communications Mission                                                                                          A         -       -        -       -          -
1.4. Precision Navigation and Timing                                                                                           B         -       -        -       -          -
    Mission
1.5. Satellite Ground Control Systems                                                                                          A         -       -        -       -          -
2. SATELLITE FUNDAMENTALS                                                                                                       -        -       -        -       -          -
2.1. Space Assets for the                                                                                                      A         -       -        -       -          -
    Communications and Navigation
    Missions
2.2. Satellite Subsystems                                                                                                      B         -       -        -       -          -
2.3. Organization and Crew Actions                                                                                             A         -       -        -       -          -
3. GPS PERFORMANCE                                                                                                              -        -       -        -       -          -
3.1. Perform AEP Console Routine                                                                                               3c        -       -        -       -          -
    Initialization Tasks
3.2. Mechanics of Contact                                                                                                      B         -       -        -       -          -
3.3. Perform Satellite Contacts                                                                                                2b        -       -        -       -          -
3.4. Anomaly Resolution                                                                                                        B         -       -        -       -          -
3.5. Perform Ground Troubleshooting                                                                                            2b        -       -        -       -          -
    Procedures




                                                                                                                                               Page 41 of 56
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Defense Satellite Communications                                                                                            Training/Information Provided (See Note)
System (DSCS) SVO
(Implementation: FY12)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D          E                A                B                  C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level

                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng     Trainee   Trainer Certifier       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials   Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC

1. DEFENSE SATELLITE                                                                                                           A
COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM
SATELLITE VEHICLE OPERATOR
(DSCS SVO) OVERVIEW
2. DSCS COMMAND AND CONTROL                                                                                                     -
EQUIPMENT
2.1. Command and Control System-                                                                                               B
Consolidated (CCS-C) Hardware and
Software
2.2. Air Force Satellite Control Network                                                                                       B
(AFSCN) Elements
2.3. Perform CCS-C Console Operations                                                                                          2b
3. DSCS NOMINAL CONTACT                                                                                                         -
PROCEDURES
3.1. SVO Routine Shift Actions                                                                                                 A
3.2. Perform Shift Planning                                                                                                    2b
3.3. Perform Vehicle Contact                                                                                                   2b
3.4. Commanding Requirements                                                                                                   B
3.5. Perform Commanding Contact                                                                                                2b
4. PERFROM GROUND ANOMALY                                                                                                      2b
RESOLUTION
5. DSCS SATELLITE SUBSYSTEMS                                                                                                    -
5.1. Structures and Mechanisms                                                                                                 B
Subsystem
5.2. Telemetry, Tracking and                                                                                                   B
Commanding Subsystem
5.3. Electrical Power and Distribution                                                                                         B
Subsystem
5.4. Thermal Control Subsystem                                                                                                 B
5.5. Attitude Control Subsystem                                                                                                B
5.6. Propulsion Subsystem                                                                                                      B
5.7 Payload Subsystem                                                                                                          B
6. PERFORM TELEMETRY,                                                                                                          2b
TRACKING AND COMMANDING
SUBSYSTEM COMMANDS




                                                                                                                                                          Page 42 of 56
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Defense Satellite Communications                                                                                            Training/Information Provided (See Note)
System (DSCS) SVO
(Implementation: FY12)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D          E                A                B                  C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level

                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng     Trainee   Trainer Certifier       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials   Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC

7. PERFORM ELECTRICAL POWER                                                                                                    2b
AND DISTRIBUTION SUBSYSTEM
COMMANDING
8. PERFORM ATTITUDE CONTROL                                                                                                    2b
SYSTEM COMMANDINGS
9. PERFORM PROPULSION                                                                                                          2b
SUBSYSTEM COMMANDING
10. PERFORM MANEUVER WRITING                                                                                                   2b
PROCEDURES
11. PERFORM MANEUVER                                                                                                           2b
COMMANDING
12. PERFORM PAYLOAD                                                                                                            2b
COMMANDING
13. PERFORM DSCS SATELLITE                                                                                                     2b
ANOMALY RESOLUTION
14. PERFORM DSCS PAYLOAD                                                                                                       2b
ANOMALY RESOLUTION




                                                                                                                                                          Page 43 of 56
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Advanced Satellite Mission Control                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Note)
System (ASMCS) SSO
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D          E                A                B                  C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level

                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng     Trainee   Trainer Certifier       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials   Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC

1. SPACE FUNDAMENTALS                                                                                                           -        -       -        -       -          -
1.1. Exploitation of Space                                                                                                     A         -       -        -       -          -
1.2. Spacecraft Orientation                                                                                                    A         -       -        -       -          -
1.3. Satellite Communications Mission                                                                                          B         -       -        -       -          -
1.4. Precision Navigation and Timing                                                                                           A         -       -        -       -          -
    Mission
1.5. Satellite Ground Control Systems                                                                                          A         -       -        -       -          -
2. SATELLITE FUNDAMENTALS                                                                                                       -        -       -        -       -          -
2.1. Space Assets for the                                                                                                      A         -       -        -       -          -
    Communications and Navigation
    Missions
2.2. Satellite Subsystems                                                                                                      B         -       -        -       -          -
2.3. Organization and Crew Actions                                                                                             A         -       -        -       -          -
3. ASMCS PERFORMANCE                                                                                                            -        -       -        -       -          -
3.1. Perform Routine Crew Actions                                                                                              2b        -       -        -       -          -
3.2. Network Actions                                                                                                           A         -       -        -       -          -
3.3. Perform Network Actions                                                                                                   3c        -       -        -       -          -
3.4. Rekey Actions                                                                                                             A         -       -        -       -          -
3.5. Perform Routine Rekey Actions                                                                                             3c        -       -        -       -          -
3.6. Perform Non-Routine Rekey                                                                                                 2b        -       -        -       -          -
    Actions
3.7. Fundamental Procedures                                                                                                    A         -       -        -       -          -
3.8. Perform Fundamental Procedures                                                                                            2b        -       -        -       -          -
3.9. Crosslink Actions                                                                                                         A         -       -        -       -          -
3.10. Perform Crosslink Actions                                                                                                2b        -       -        -       -          -
3.11. Payload Actions                                                                                                          A         -       -        -       -          -
3.12. Perform Payload Actions                                                                                                  2b        -       -        -       -          -
3.13. Anomaly Resolution Actions                                                                                               A         -       -        -       -          -
3.14. Perform Anomaly Resolution                                                                                               2b        -       -        -       -          -
     Actions




                                                                                                                                               Page 44 of 56
                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Space-Ground Link System (SGLS) 2.                Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT
                                                                                                                            Training/Information Provided (See Note)
SSO
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D          E                A                B                  C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level

                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng     Trainee   Trainer Certifier       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials   Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC

1. SPACE FUNDAMENTALS                                                                                                           -        -       -        -       -          -
1.1. Exploitation of Space                                                                                                     A         -       -        -       -          -
1.2. Spacecraft Orientation                                                                                                    A         -       -        -       -          -
1.3. Satellite Communications Mission                                                                                          B         -       -        -       -          -
1.4. Precision Navigation and Timing                                                                                           A         -       -        -       -          -
    Mission
1.5. Satellite Ground Control Systems                                                                                          A         -       -        -       -          -
2. SATELLITE FUNDAMENTALS                                                                                                       -        -       -        -       -          -
2.1. Space Assets for the                                                                                                      A         -       -        -       -          -
    Communications and Navigation
    Missions
2.2. Satellite Subsystems                                                                                                      B         -       -        -       -          -
2.3. Organization and Crew Actions                                                                                             A         -       -        -       -          -
3. MILSTAR CCS-C PERFORMANCE                                                                                                    -        -       -        -       -          -
3.1. Perform CCS-C Console Routine                                                                                             3c        -       -        -       -          -
    Initialization Tasks
3.2. Mechanics of Contact                                                                                                      B         -       -        -       -          -
3.3. Perform Satellite Contacts                                                                                                2b        -       -        -       -          -
3.4. Anomaly Resolution                                                                                                        B         -       -        -       -          -
3.5. Satellite Alarms                                                                                                          A         -       -        -       -          -
3.6. Perform Ground Troubleshooting                                                                                            2b        -       -        -       -          -
    Procedures
3.7. Perform Satellite Troubleshooting                                                                                         1a        -       -        -       -          -
    Procedures




                                                                                                                                               Page 45 of 56
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Wideband Global Satcom (WGS)                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
SVO
Implementation: FY12
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D          E                A                B                    C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level      7 Skill Level

                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng     Trainee   Trainer Certifier       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)      (1)         (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials   Course      CDC   Course     CDC     Course       CDC

1. WIDEBAND GLOBAL SATCOM                                                                                                      A         -       -        -         -          -
SATELLITE VEHICLE OPERATOR
(WGS SVO) OVERIVEW
2. TELEMETRY, TRACKING, AND                                                                                                     -        -       -        -         -          -
COMMANDING (TT&C) EQUIPMENT
2.1. Command and Control System-                                                                                               B         -       -        -         -          -
Consolidated (CCS-C) TT&C Equipment
2.2. Air Force Satellite Control Network                                                                                       B         -       -        -         -          -
(AFSCN) TT&C Equipment
2.3. Gapfiller Satellite Configuration                                                                                         B         -       -        -         -          -
Control Network (GSCCE) TT&C
Equipment
2.4. Satellite TT&C Overview                                                                                                   B         -       -        -         -          -
3. ROUTINE OPERATIONS                                                                                                           -        -       -        -         -          -
3.1. Routine Shift Actions                                                                                                     A         -       -        -         -          -
3.2. Perform CCS-C Console Operations                                                                                          2b        -       -        -         -          -
3.3. Perform Shift Planning Procedures                                                                                         2b        -       -        -         -          -
3.4. Perform State of Health                                                                                                   2b        -       -        -         -          -
3.5.Perform Commanding Actions                                                                                                 2b        -       -        -         -          -
3.6. Perform AFSCN Vehicle Contact                                                                                             2b        -       -        -         -          -
3.7. Perform Mode 2 Vehicle Contact                                                                                            2b        -       -        -         -          -
3.8. Perform Telemetry Broadcast                                                                                               2b        -       -        -         -          -
Vehicle Contact
3.9. Perform Mode 1 Vehicle Contact                                                                                            2b        -       -        -         -          -
4. PERFORM GROUND ANOMALY                                                                                                      2b        -       -        -         -          -
RESOLUTION
5. WGS PLATFORM                                                                                                                -         -       -        -         -          -
5.1. WGS Satellite Subsystems Overview                                                                                         A         -       -        -         -          -
5.2. Telemetry and Commanding (T&C)                                                                                            B         -       -        -         -          -
Radio Frequency (RF) Subsystem
Operations
5.3. T&C Digital Subsystem Operations                                                                                          B         -       -        -         -          -
5.4. Perform T&C Configuration                                                                                                 2b        -       -        -         -          -
5.5. Perform Spacecraft Control                                                                                                2b        -       -        -         -          -
Processor (SCP) Commanding
5.6. Secure T&C Operation Tasks                                                                                                B         -       -        -         -          -
5.7. Perform Central Telemetry                                                                                                 2b        -       -        -         -          -
Command Unit (CTCU) Dwell Telemetry
Operations
5.8. CTCU Data Stash Management                                                                                                B         -       -        -         -          -
Tasks
5.9. Digital Data Bus (DDB) Tasks                                                                                              B         -       -        -         -          -
5.10. Restore T&C Tasks                                                                                                        B         -       -        -         -          -
6. ATTITUDE CONTROL                                                                                                            -         -       -        -         -          -
SUBSYSTEM (ACS) OPERATIONS




                                                                                                                                                               Page 46 of 56
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Wideband Global Satcom (WGS)                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
SVO
Implementation: FY12
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D          E                A                B                    C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level      7 Skill Level

                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng     Trainee   Trainer Certifier       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)      (1)         (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials   Course      CDC   Course     CDC     Course       CDC

6.1. ACS Subsystem                                                                                                             B         -       -        -         -          -
6.2. Attitude Control Modes                                                                                                    B         -       -        -         -          -
6.3. Perform Ephermeris Upload                                                                                                 2b        -       -        -         -          -
Management
6.4. Star Tracker Management                                                                                                   B          -      -         -        -           -
6.5. Stellar Inertial Attitude                                                                                                 B          -      -         -        -           -
Determination (SIAD) Operations
6.6. Hemispherical Inertial Reference                                                                                          B          -      -         -        -           -
Unit (HIRU) Management
6.7. Control Actuators                                                                                                         B          -      -         -        -           -
6.8. Perform Solar Wing Drive                                                                                                  2b         -      -         -        -           -
Management
6.9. Solar Wing Positioner Management                                                                                          B          -      -         -        -           -
6.10. Gimbaled Xenon Ion Propulsion                                                                                            B          -      -         -        -           -
System (XIPS) Platform Management
6.11. Perform Reaciton Wheel Assembly                                                                                          2b         -      -         -        -           -
(RWA) Operations Tasks
6.12. Small Gimbal Mechanism (SGM)                                                                                             B          -      -         -        -           -
Management
6.13. Perform Eclipse Monitoring                                                                                               2b        -       -        -         -          -
7. SPACECRAFT CONTROL                                                                                                          -         -       -        -         -          -
PROCESSOR
7.1. SCP Operations                                                                                                            B         -       -        -         -          -
7.2. Perform Battery Charge Management                                                                                         2b        -       -        -         -          -
7.3. Heater Control                                                                                                            B         -       -        -         -          -
7.4. Perform SCP Clock Management                                                                                              2b        -       -        -         -          -
7.5. Perform SCP Memory Management                                                                                             2b        -       -        -         -          -
7.6. Perform Flexible Data Buffer                                                                                              2b        -       -        -         -          -
Management
7.7. Perform Fault Protection                                                                                                  2b        -       -        -         -          -
Management
7.8. Payload Fault Protection                                                                                                  B         -       -        -         -          -
8. PROPULSION SUBSYSTEM                                                                                                         -
8.1. Propulsion Subsystem Operations                                                                                           B         -       -        -         -          -
8.2. Perform XIPS On-Station Operations                                                                                        2b        -       -        -         -          -
8.3. XIPS Maintenance                                                                                                          B         -       -        -         -          -
8.4. XIPS Manual Burn                                                                                                          B         -       -        -         -          -
8.5. XIPS Station Change                                                                                                       B         -       -        -         -          -
9. ELECTRICAL POWER                                                                                                             -        -       -        -         -          -
SUBSYSTEM
9.1. ElectricalPower Subsystem                                                                                                 B         -       -        -         -          -
Operations
9.2. Perform Battery Monitoring                                                                                                2b        -       -        -         -          -
9.3. Perform Battery Calibration                                                                                               2b        -       -        -         -          -
10. PASSIVE THERMAL CONTROL                                                                                                    B         -       -        -         -          -




                                                                                                                                                               Page 47 of 56
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Wideband Global Satcom (WGS)                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
SVO
Implementation: FY12
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D          E                A                B                    C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level      7 Skill Level

                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng     Trainee   Trainer Certifier       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)      (1)         (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials   Course      CDC   Course     CDC     Course       CDC

11. SPACECRAFT CONTINGENCY                                                                                                     -         -       -        -         -          -
11.1. Spacecraft Contingency Operations                                                                                        B         -       -        -         -          -
11.2. On Station Safing and System                                                                                             B         -       -        -         -          -
Recovery
11.3. Post Toggle Return to Service                                                                                            B         -       -        -         -          -
11.4. Normal Mode Set Up                                                                                                       B         -       -        -         -          -
11.5. Transient Free SCP Switch in                                                                                             B         -       -        -         -          -
Normal Mode
11.6. Perform Emergency Sun                                                                                                    2b        -       -        -         -          -
Acquisition
12. PERFORM WGS VEHICLE                                                                                                        2b        -       -        -         -          -
ANOMALY PROCEDURES
13. WGS PAYLOAD OPERATIONS                                                                                                     A         -       -        -         -          -
14. WGS ANTENNA                                                                                                                -         -       -        -         -          -
14.1. WGS Payload Antenna                                                                                                      A         -       -        -         -          -
14.2. X-Band Uplink Phased Array                                                                                               A         -       -        -         -          -
Antenna
14.3. X-Band Downlink Phased Array                                                                                             A         -       -        -         -          -
Antenna
14.4. Phased Array Initialization                                                                                              A         -       -        -         -          -
15. WGS PAYLOAD                                                                                                                -         -       -        -         -          -
15.1. WGS Payload Units                                                                                                        A         -       -        -         -          -
15.2. Ka-Band Low Noise Amplifier                                                                                              A         -       -        -         -          -
(LNA)
15.3. X-band Earth Coverage Lane                                                                                               A         -       -        -         -          -
15.4. KA- and X-band Downconverter                                                                                             A         -       -        -         -          -
15.5. Uplink Beam Selection Switches                                                                                           A         -       -        -         -          -
15.6. Baseband Downconverter Assembly                                                                                          A         -       -        -         -          -
15.7. Baseband Upconverter Assembly                                                                                            A         -       -        -         -          -
15.8. Channelizer                                                                                                              A         -       -        -         -          -
15.9. Channelizer Initiation                                                                                                   A         -       -        -         -          -
15.10. Downlink Beam Selection                                                                                                 A         -       -        -         -          -
Switches
15.11. KA- and X-band Upconverter                                                                                              A         -       -        -         -          -
15.12. Ka-band Linearized High Power                                                                                           A         -       -        -         -          -
Amplifier
15.13. X-band Linearized Traveling                                                                                             A         -       -        -         -          -
Wave Tube Amplifier (TWTA)
15.14. Ka-band Polarization Switches                                                                                           A          -      -         -        -           -
15.15. Master Oscillator                                                                                                       A          -      -         -        -           -
15.16. Local Oscillator Reference                                                                                              A          -      -         -        -           -
Generators
15.17. Clock Generator                                                                                                         A          -      -         -        -           -
15.18. Synthesizer Reference Generator                                                                                         A          -      -         -        -           -
15.19. Payload Central Power Supply                                                                                            A          -      -         -        -           -




                                                                                                                                                               Page 48 of 56
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Wideband Global Satcom (WGS)                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
SVO
Implementation: FY12
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D          E                A                B                    C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level      7 Skill Level

                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng     Trainee   Trainer Certifier       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)      (1)         (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials   Course      CDC   Course     CDC     Course       CDC

16. PAYLOAD INITIALIZATION                                                                                                     -          -      -         -        -           -
16.1. Command Channel Search                                                                                                   A          -      -         -        -           -
16.2. SCP Stored Payload Telemetry                                                                                             A          -      -         -        -           -
16.3. Payload Initialization Operations                                                                                        A          -      -         -        -           -
16.4. Payload Shutdown                                                                                                         A          -      -         -        -           -
17. REDUNDANCY MANAGEMENT                                                                                                      -          -      -         -        -           -
17.1. Uplink Redundancy Managemenet                                                                                            A          -      -         -        -           -
17.2. Downlink Redundancy                                                                                                      A          -      -         -        -           -
Management
17.3. Payload Anomaly Response                                                                                                 A          -      -         -        -           -




                                                                                                                                                               Page 49 of 56
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Space-Based Infrared Systems                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
(SBIRS) Mission
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D          E                  A                B                  C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level      5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level

                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng     Trainee   Trainer Certifier       (1)         (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials   Course        CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC

1. SPACE BASED INFRARED                                                                                                          -         -       -        -       -          -
 SYSTEMS (SBIRS) KNOWLEDGE
1.1. SBIRS Elements                                                                                                              A         -       -        -       -          -
1.2. Defense Support Program (DSP)                                                                                               A         -       -        -       -          -
    Subsystems
2. CREW ENVIRONMENT                                                                                                              -         -       -        -       -          -
2.1. Operate Workstation Equipment                                                                                               3c        -       -        -       -          -
2.2. Use Interactive Electronic Technical                                                                                        3c        -       -        -       -          -
    Manual (IETM)
2.3. Setup Console                                                                                                               3c        -       -        -       -          -
2.4. Geography and Missiles                                                                                                      A         -       -        -       -          -
3. MISSION CREW EMPLOYMENT                                                                                                       -         -       -        -       -          -
3.1. Process Single Missile Launch                                                                                           3c            -       -        -       -          -
    Events
3.2. Process Single Supplemental Events                                                                                      3c            -       -        -       -          -
3.3. Process Nuclear Detonations                                                                                             3c            -       -        -       -          -
    (NUDETs)
3.4. Process Multiple Events                                                                                                 3c            -       -        -       -          -
3.5. Report on Events                                                                                                        3c            -       -        -       -          -
4. PROBLEM RESOLUTION AND                                                                                                    -             -       -        -       -          -
    REPORTING
4.1. Respond to Anomalies                                                                                                    3c            -       -        -       -          -
4.2. Analyze Operations Capability                                                                                           3c            -       -        -       -          -
    (OPSCAP)
4.3. Report Operations Capability                                                                                            3c            -       -        -       -          -
    (OPSCAP)
4.4. Process Event Scenarios                                                                                                 3c            -       -        -       -          -
4.5. Report Event Scenarios                                                                                                  3c            -       -        -       -          -




                                                                                                                                                 Page 50 of 56
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Space-Based Infrared Systems                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
(SBIRS) System
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D          E                A                B                  C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level

                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng     Trainee   Trainer Certifier       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials   Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC

1. SPACE BASED INFRARED                                                                                                         -        -       -        -       -          -
 SYSTEMS (SBIRS) KNOWLEDGE
1.1. SBIRS Elements                                                                                                            A         -       -        -       -          -
1.2. Defense Support Program (DSP)                                                                                             A         -       -        -       -          -
    Satellite Subsystem
2. CREW ENVIRONMENT
2.1. Operate Workstation Equipment                                                                                             3c        -       -        -       -          -
2.2. Use Interactive Electronic Technical                                                                                      3c        -       -        -       -          -
    Manual (IETM)
2.3. Set up Satellite Systems Operator                                                                                         3c        -       -        -       -          -
    (SSO) Console
2.4. Set up Ground Systems Operator                                                                                            3c        -       -        -       -          -
    (GSO) Console
3. SYSTEMS CREW EMPLOYMENT
3.1.Monitor Telemetry                                                                                                          3c        -       -        -       -          -
3.2. Perform State of Health                                                                                                   3c        -       -        -       -          -
3.3. Initialize Ground Stations                                                                                                3c        -       -        -       -          -
3.4. Configure Ground Stations                                                                                                 3c        -       -        -       -          -
3.5. Configure Air Force Satellite                                                                                             3c        -       -        -       -          -
    Control Network (AFSCN)
    Resources
3.6. Perform Commanding Actions                                                                                                3c        -       -        -       -          -
4. PROBLEM RESOLUTION
4.1. Respond to Anomalies                                                                                                      3c        -       -        -       -          -
4.2. Respond to Ground Segment                                                                                                 3c        -       -        -       -          -
    Malfunctions
4.3. Respond to Space Segment                                                                                                  3c        -       -        -       -          -
    Malfunctions
4.4. Process Event Scenarios                                                                                                   3c        -       -        -       -          -




                                                                                                                                               Page 51 of 56
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Counter Communications Systems                                                                                              Training/Information Provided (See Note)
(CCS)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D          E                A                B                  C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level

                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng     Trainee   Trainer Certifier       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials   Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC


1. SPACE CONTROL MISSION                                                                                                        -         -      -         -      -           -
 AREA
1.1 Space Control Mission Description                                                                                          B          -      -         -      -           -
1.2. Organizational Structure                                                                                                  B          -      -         -      -           -
1.3. Technical Orders                                                                                                          B          -      -         -      -           -
1.4. Signal Fundamentals                                                                                                       B          -      -         -      -           -
1.5. Signal Processing                                                                                                         B          -      -         -      -           -
1.6. Satellite Communication                                                                                                   B          -      -         -      -           -
 (SATCOM) Fundamentals
2. MISSION PLANNING                                                                                                             -         -      -         -      -           -
2.1. Joint Operations Planning (JOP)                                                                                           B          -      -         -      -           -
 Process
2.2. Deconfliction Process                                                                                                     B          -      -         -      -           -
2.3. Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures                                                                                       B          -      -         -      -           -
 (TTP)
2.4. Mission Tasking                                                                                                           B          -      -         -      -           -
2.5. Mission Messages                                                                                                          B          -      -         -      -           -
3. CCS MISSION OPERATIONS                                                                                                      B          -      -         -      -           -
3.1. Mission Protection Procedures                                                                                             B          -      -         -      -           -
3.2. Perform Mission Protection                                                                                                2b         -      -         -      -           -
 Procedures
3.3. Communications Equipment                                                                                                  B          -      -         -      -           -
3.4. Communications Failure Procedures                                                                                         B          -      -         -      -           -
3.5. Respond to Mission Messages                                                                                               2b         -      -         -      -           -
3.6. Operational Reporting Procedures                                                                                          B          -      -         -      -           -
3.7. Perform Operational Reporting                                                                                             2b         -      -         -      -           -
 Procedures
4. CCS BASIC MISSION                                                                                                            -         -      -         -      -           -
 EQUIPMENT (BME) OPERATIONS
4.1. CCS Basic Mission Equipment                                                                                               B          -      -         -      -           -
 (BME)
4.2. Block Converter Assemblies                                                                                                B          -      -         -      -           -




                                                                                                                                              Page 52 of 56
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Counter Communications Systems                                                                                              Training/Information Provided (See Note)
(CCS)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D          E                A                B                  C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level

                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng     Trainee   Trainer Certifier       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials   Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC


4.3. Configure Block Converter                                                                                                 2b         -      -         -      -           -
 Assemblies
4.4. Spectrum Analyzer Assembly                                                                                                B          -      -         -      -           -
 (SAA)
4.5. Configure Spectrum Analyzer                                                                                               2b         -      -         -      -           -
 Assembly (SAA)
4.6. Narrowband Assembly (NBA)                                                                                                 B          -      -         -      -           -
4.7. Configure Narrowband Assembly                                                                                             2b         -      -         -      -           -
 (NBA)
4.8. Signal Generator Assembly (SGA)                                                                                           B          -      -         -      -           -
4.9. Configure Signal Generator                                                                                                2b         -      -         -      -           -
 Assembly (SGA)
4.10. Transmit Control Assembly (TCA)                                                                                          B          -      -         -      -           -
4.11. Transmit Control Assembly (TCA)                                                                                          2b         -      -         -      -           -
5. CCS EXPANSION EQUIPMENT                                                                                                      -         -      -         -      -           -
 OPERATIONS
5.1. CCS Expansion Equipment                                                                                                   B          -      -         -      -           -
5.2. Wideband Digital Assembly (WDA)                                                                                           B          -      -         -      -           -
5.3. Configure Wideband Digital                                                                                                2b         -      -         -      -           -
 Assembly (WDA)
5.4. Wideband Analog Assembly                                                                                                  B          -      -         -      -           -
 (WAA)
5.5. Configure Wideband Analog                                                                                                 2b         -      -         -      -           -
 Assembly (WAA)
6. CREW ACTIONS                                                                                                                 -         -      -         -      -           -
6.1. Basic Mission Crew Actions                                                                                                B          -      -         -      -           -
6.2. Expansion Equipment Crew Actions                                                                                          B          -      -         -      -           -
6.3. CCS Crew Actions                                                                                                          B          -      -         -      -           -
6.4. Electronic Attack (EA) Procedures                                                                                         B          -      -         -      -           -
6.5. Perform Electronic Attack (EA)                                                                                            2b         -      -         -      -           -
 Procedures
6.6. Electronic Support (ES) Procedures                                                                                        B          -      -         -      -           -
6.7. Perform Electronic Support (ES)                                                                                           2b         -      -         -      -           -
 Procedures


                                                                                                                                              Page 53 of 56
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Counter Communications Systems                                                                                              Training/Information Provided (See Note)
(CCS)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A         B        C         D          E                A                B                  C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level

                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng     Trainee   Trainer Certifier       (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)         (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials   Course      CDC   Course     CDC   Course       CDC


7. PERFORM MISSION OPERATIONS                                                                                                   -         -      -         -      -           -
7.1. Perform Basic Mission Operations                                                                                          2b         -      -         -      -           -
 Procedures
7.2. Perform Expansion Equipment                                                                                               2b         -      -         -      -           -
 Operations Procedures
7.3. Perform CCS Operations Procedures                                                                                         2b         -      -         -      -           -




                                                                                                                                              Page 54 of 56
Section B - Course Objective List

4. Measurement. Each objective is indicated as follows: W indicates task or subject knowledge, which
is measured using a written test. PC indicates required task performance, which is measured with a
performance progress check. P indicates required task performance, which is measured with a
performance test. PC/W indicates separate measurement of both knowledge and performance elements
using a written test and a performance progress check.

5. Standard. The standard is 80% on written examinations. Standards for performance measurement
are indicated in the objective and delineated on the individual progress checklist. Instructors use the
checklist to document each student’s progress on each task. Instructor assistance may be provided during
the progress check, and students may be required to repeat all or part of the behavior until satisfactory
performance is attained. Students must satisfactorily complete all PCs prior to taking the written test.

6. Proficiency Level. Most task performance is taught to the ―2b‖ proficiency level, which means the
student can do most parts of the task but does need assistance on the hardest parts of the task (partially
proficient). The student can also determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task. The ―2b‖ level is
taught in the weapon specific IST courses. IST mixes classroom instruction with hands-on operation
through the use of a trainer/simulator/emulator. A fully proficient, MR crewmember is attained through
the unit’s specific MQT.

7. Course Objectives. Detailed course objectives and course descriptions are available upon request
through HQAETC/A3T.



Section C – Support Material

There are currently no support material requirements. This area is reserved.




Section D - Training Course Index

8. Purpose. This section identifies training courses available for the specialty and shows how the
courses are used by each MAJCOM. Refer to Education and Training Course Announcements website
https://etca.randolph.af.mil/ for these courses.

9. Air Force In-Residence Courses..

Course Number                          Title                              Location                 User
V3ABR1C611 0E1B              EUST Supplemental Skills                     Vandenberg AFB            AF
V3ABR1C631 A71D              SBIRS Mission Initial Skills                 Vandenberg AFB            AF
V3AZR1C651 A71D              SBIRS Mission Supplemental Skills            Vandenberg AFB            AF
V3ABR1C631 B71C              SBIRS Systems Initial Skills                 Vandenberg AFB            AF
V3AZR1C651 B71C              SBIRS Systems Supplemental Skills            Vandenberg AFB            AF
V3ABR1C631 B72A              PARCS Initial Skills                         Vandenberg AFB            AF
V3AZ1C651 B72A               PARCS Supplemental Skills                    Vandenberg AFB            AF


                                                                                             Page 55 of 56
V3ABR1C631 A72A              PAWS Initial Skills                            Vandenberg AFB         AF
V3AZR1C651 A72A              PAWS Supplemental Skills                       Vandenberg AFB         AF
V3ABR1C631 U72A              UEWR Initial Skills                            Vandenberg AFB         AF
V3AZ1C651 U72A               UEWR Supplemental Skills                       Vandenberg AFB         AF
V3ABR1C631 A80A              Active Space Surveillance Initial Skills       Vandenberg AFB         AF
V3AZ1C651 A80A               Active Space Surveillance Supplemental         Vandenberg AFB         AF
V3ABR1C631 B80A              CCS Initial Skills                             Vandenberg AFB         AF
V3AZ1C651 B80B               CCS Supplemental Skills                        Vandenberg AFB         AF
V3AZR1C651 Q80B              Principles of Space Control Supplemental       Vandenberg AFB         AF
V3ABR1C631 A75A              GPS SSO Initial Skills                         Vandenberg AFB         AF
V3AZR1C651 A75A              GPS SSO Supplemental Skills                    Vandenberg AFB         AF
V3ABR1C631 B75A              Milstar ASMCS SSO Initial Skills               Vandenberg AFB         AF
V3AZ1C651 B75A               Milstar ASMCS SSO Supplemental                 Vandenberg AFB         AF
V3ABR1C631 C75D              Milstar SGLS SSO Initial Skills                Vandenberg AFB         AF
V3AZR1C651 C75C              Milstar SGLS SSO Supplemental Skills           Vandenberg AFB         AF
V3ABR1C631 D75B              DSCS SVO Initial Skills                        Vandenberg AFB         AF
V3AZR1C651 D75B              DSCS SVO Supplemental Skills                   Vandenberg AFB         AF
V3ABR1C631 W75A              WGS SVO Initial Skills                         Vandenberg AFB         AF
V3AZ1C651 W75A               WGS SVO Supplemental Skills                    Vandenberg AFB         AF
V3AZR1C651 J80A              JsPOC Fundamentals Supplemental                Vandenberg AFB         AF
V3AZR1C651 S80A              Space Surveillance Supplemental                Vandenberg AFB         AF
V3AZR1C651 A86A              Space Lift Fundamentals Supplemental           Vandenberg AFB         AF


10. HQ AU/A4L Course.

Course Number                          Course                                                     User
CDC 1C651                Space Systems Operations Journeyman                             AF

11. Courses Under Development.

Course Number                           Course                              Location              User
V3ABR1C631 S80A              Space Surveillance Initial Skills              Vandenberg AFB         AF


Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements
There are currently no MAJCOM unique requirements. This area is reserved.




                                                                                             Page 56 of 56
