DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                       CFETP 2R0X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                                           Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                      1 September 2013




                               AFSC 2R0X1

      MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT
         ANALYSIS SPECIALTY




          CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
            AND TRAINING PLAN

      ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
                  www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

         RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
This Page Intentionally Left Blank




                ii
                CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
               MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT ANALYSIS SPECIALTY
                               AFSC 2R0X1

                                    Table of Contents
PART I                                                      Page
Preface                                                        1

Abbreviations/Terms Explained                                  2

Section A--General Information                                 4
   Purpose of the CFETP
   Use of the CFETP
   Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B—Air Force Specialty Progression and Information      5
   Specialty Description
   Skill/Career Progression
       Apprentice Level (3)
       Journeyman Level (5)
       Craftsman Level (7)
       Superintendent Level (9)
   Training Decisions
   Community College of the Air Force (CCAF)
   Career Field Path
   Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist

Section C—Skill-Level Training Requirements                   12
   Purpose
   Specialty Qualification
       Apprentice Level
       Journeyman Level
       Craftsman Level
       Superintendent Level

Section D--Resource Constraints                               15

PART II                                                     Page

Section A-- Course Objective List                             16

Section B—Support Material                                    16

Section C--Training Course Index                              17

Section D--MAJCOM Unique Requirements                         19

                                            iii
Section E--Specialty Training Standard (STS)          19

CFETP Attachments

1. Proficiency Code Key                               23
2. Qualitative Requirements                           25




Supersedes: CFETP 2R0X1, 1 December 2008

OPR: 363 TRS/TRR
Certified by: Mr. Donnie Manos, GS-12 (363 TRS/TRR)
Approved by: CMSgt William Givens (HQ USAF/A4LF)
Number of Printed Pages: 39


                                           iv
                 CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT ANALYSIS SPECIALTY
                                          AFSC 2R0X1
PART I

Preface

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) for AFSC 2R0X1, Maintenance
Management Analysis Specialty is a comprehensive education and training document that
identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support resources, and minimum
core task requirements for this specialty. The CFETP will provide personnel a clear career path
to success and will instill rigor in all aspects of career field training. A copy of the current
CFETP is available for review/download at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/

NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty position
qualification training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts; supervisors use both parts to plan, manage, and control
training.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C
associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, training, and other).
Section D indicates resource constraints. Some examples are funds, manpower, equipment, and
facilities.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A contains the course objective list and training
standards supervisors use to determine if Airmen have satisfied Air Education and Training
Command (AETC) training requirements. Section B identifies available support materials. An
example is a Qualification Training Package (QTP) developed to support proficiency training.
Section C identifies a training course index supervisors use to determine resources available to
support training; included here are both mandatory and optional courses. Section D identifies
MAJCOM unique training requirements supervisors use to determine additional training
requirement unique to the MAJCOM. Section E identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS)
and includes duties, tasks, and technical references to support training; AETC conducted
training; wartime course requirements; core tasks; and correspondence course requirements.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive
effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan will enable us to
train today’s work force for tomorrow’s jobs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part
II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.




                                                  1
ABBREVIATIONS / TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training (AT): Formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in one
or more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance
their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career Airmen at the advanced level of
the AFS.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS): A comprehensive task list that describes a
particular job type or duty position. They are used by supervisors to document task qualifications.
The tasks on an AFJQS are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP): A CFETP is a comprehensive,
multipurpose document covering the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field.
It outlines a logical growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career
field training identifiable, eliminate duplication, and ensure this training is budget defensible.

Certification: A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required
standards.

Certification Official: A person the supervisor assigns to determine an individual’s ability to
perform a task to required standards.

Continuation Training: Additional training exceeding requirements with emphasis on present
or future duty assignments.

Core Task: A task Air Force Career Field Managers (AFCFMs) identify as a minimum
qualification requirement within an Air Force Specialty regardless of duty position.

Course Objective List (COL):          A publication identifying the tasks and knowledge
requirements, and respective standards provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level in this
career field. Supervisors use the COL to assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance
with AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Programs.

Course Training Standard (CTS): Training Standard that identifies the training members will
receive in a specific course not covered in the CFETP.

Critical Task: Additional tasks, identified by MAJCOM Functional Managers, commanders,
and supervisors as being required for skill-level upgrade training. When designated, certify these
core tasks using normal core task certification procedures.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST): A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training: Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video,
or other necessary means to supplement training.




                                                 2
Field Technical Training (Type 4): Special or regular on-site training conducted by a Training
Detachment (TD) or by a Mobile Training Team (MTT).

Initial Skills Training (IST): A formal resident course which results in the award of a 3-skill
level AFSC.

Instructional System Development (ISD): A deliberate and orderly process for developing,
validating, and reviewing instructional programs that ensures personnel are taught the knowledge
and skills essential for successful job performance.

Occupational Analysis Report (OAR): A detailed report showing the results of an
occupational survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT): Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training at the duty location used to
certify personnel for both skill level upgrade and duty position qualification.

Qualification Training (QT): Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify
an Airman in a specific duty position. This training occurs both during and after the upgrade
training process. It is designed to provide the performance skill / knowledge training required to
do the job.

Qualification Training Package (QTP): An instructional package designed for use at the unit
to qualify, or aid qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of equipment. It may
be printed, computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.

Resource Constraints: Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and
equipment that preclude desired training from being accomplished.

Specialty Training Standard (STS): An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force
Specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge an Airman may be expected to perform or to know on
the job. It serves as a contract between the Air Education and Training Command and the
functional user to show which of the overall training requirements for an Air Force Specialty
Code are taught in formal schools, career development courses, and exportable courses.

Supplemental Training. Formal, standardized training within an AFS that is in addition to
required initial skills training and skill level upgrade training. It may support new/newly
assigned equipment, methods, and/or technology.

Task Certifier. See Certification Official

Training Business Area (TBA). TBA is a Net-Centric, GCSS-AF IF Web-Based application
providing Air Force Warfighters with global, real-time visibility into the technical qualifications,
certifications and training status of logistics, communications and information professionals Air
Force wide. TBA supports base, wing and work center level training management activities by
automating training management business processes. The primary users of TBA will be any
personnel directly involved in base level training management and certification activities. TBA



                                                 3
is being developed and maintained by 754th Electronic Systems Group, Installation and
Logistics, Maintenance Flight (754 ELSG/ILM) at Maxwell-Gunter AFB.

Upgrade Training (UGT): A mixture of mandatory courses, task qualification, QTPs, and
CDCs required for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-skill levels.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW): A forum, co-chaired by the AFCFM and
Training Pipeline Manager, of MAJCOM Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) functional
managers, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training personnel that determines career
ladder training requirements.




                                              4
Section A - General Information

1. Purpose of the CFETP. This CFETP provides information necessary for AFCFM,
MAJCOM Functional Managers (MFMs), commanders, training managers, supervisors and
trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective career field training program. This
plan outlines the training that individuals in AFSC 2R0X1 should receive to develop and
progress throughout their career. This plan identifies initial skills, upgrade, qualification,
advanced, and proficiency training. Initial skills training is the AFS specific training an
individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon retraining into this specialty for award
of the 3-skill level. Normally, this training is conducted by AETC at one or more of the
technical training wings. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification
requirements, and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-,
skill levels. Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to
qualify an Airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after
the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills and knowledge
required to do the job. Advanced training is formal specialty training for selected Airmen.
Proficiency training is additional training, either in-residence, exportable advanced training
courses, or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge
beyond the minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP has several purposes. Some are:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field training
program. Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an
individual’s career.

1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.

1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and the
training delivery method.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints which impact full implementation of the desired career
field training process.

2. Use of the CFETP. The CFETP will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to
ensure comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the
specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop / revise formal resident, non-resident, field and
exportable training based on requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of
the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining
resources needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial, upgrade,
and proficiency requirements. Identified requirements can be satisfied by OJT, resident training,
contract training, or exportable courses. MAJCOM-developed training to support this AFS is
identified for inclusion into this plan and must not duplicate other available training resources.



                                                  5
2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan.
The lists of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority. MAJCOM
representatives and AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field
training requirements. The AETC training manager for this specialty will initiate an annual
review of this document by AETC and MFMs to ensure currency and accuracy. Use the list of
courses in Part II to eliminate duplicate training.

Section B – Air Force Specialty Progression and Information

4. Specialty Description.

4.1. Specialty Summary. Refer to Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD).
Monitors, collects, assembles, and audits data for reports and briefings. Initiates special studies
and investigations, and performs statistical analysis. Reports findings to managers with
recommendations. Informs management of significant factors affecting the mission. Manages
and operates Maintenance Information Systems (MIS), and performs Functional System
Administrator (FSA) duties.
Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 155800.

4.2. Duties and Responsibilities. Refer to AFECD.

4.2.1. Collects, monitors, audits, evaluates, and analyzes MIS data. Periodically audits source
data for accuracy, timeliness, and compliance with directives. Collects and maintains data for
use in analysis reports, studies, and problem identification. Using statistical techniques,
interprets findings from data, identifies trends and significant deviations, and recommends
corrective action. Analyzes deficiencies in areas such as equipment performance, materiel
consumption, scheduling, management, and resources; their impact on the maintenance mission;
and results of corrective actions. Prepares visual media for analysis studies. Prepares written
reports and special studies, and presents recommendations and briefings to senior managers.

4.2.2. Controls, manages, operates, maintains MIS, and performs related FSA duties.
Coordinates, affects development, and schedules MIS products, retrievals, and other programs.
Identifies problems and recommends and applies corrective actions related to MIS operation and
maintenance. Identifies and reports database problems / issues. Coordinates with appropriate
information management / processing centers to ensure automated systems capability and
compatibility with customer requirements are met. Acts as the focal point for MIS requirements
and enhancements. Forwards requirements/enhancements to higher headquarters for approval.




                                                6
5. Skill/Career Progression

5.1. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to the superintendent skill
level play an important role in the Air Force’s ability to accomplish its mission. It is essential for
everyone involved in training to do his or her part to plan, manage, and conduct an effective
training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will ensure each individual
receives necessary training at appropriate points in their career. The following narrative and
AFSC 2R0X1 Career Field tables identify the skill / career progression.

5.2. Apprentice (3) Level. Following Basic Military Training, initial skills training will be
provided to members in a resident course at the 82d Training Wing, Sheppard AFB TX. The
course will lay the foundation for additional training at the graduate's first duty assignment.
Trainees will utilize the Career Development Course (CDC), and task qualification training to
progress in their career field. Upon completion of CDC 2R051 and Air Force core task
qualifications; the trainee should complete other available duty position training.

5.3 Journeyman (5) Level. Once upgraded to the 5-level, the journeyman will enter into
continuation training that will broaden their experience base by increasing their knowledge and
skill in troubleshooting and solving more complex problems. Five-levels may be assigned job
positions such as maintenance data system specialist, database manager (DBM), Aircraft
Maintenance Unit (AMU) Analyst, wing analyst, Cyber/Space/Communication Systems analyst
and various staff positions. After having 48 months in the Air Force, 5-levels will attend Airman
Leadership School (ALS) to enhance their Professional Military Education (PME). After
attending the Air Force Training course, 5-levels can be considered for appointment as unit
trainers. Trainers must be qualified to perform the task to be trained. CDC study is continued to
prepare for Weighted Airman Promotion testing. Airmen should also consider continuing their
formal education by pursuing a Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) degree.

5.4. Craftsman (7) Level. A craftsman can expect to fill various supervisory and management
positions such as maintenance data system technician, wing database manager, NCOIC database
management, wing analyst, AMU analyst, NCOIC AMU Analysis, NCOIC Wing Analysis,
element chief, Cyber/Space/Communication Systems analyst and various staff positions.
Exportable courses, MAJCOM, and unit directed courses are also available. Seven-levels should
take courses or obtain added knowledge of management of resources and personnel. Continued
academic education through CCAF and higher degree programs is encouraged. In addition,
when promoted to TSgt, individuals will attend the Noncommissioned Officer Academy.

5.5. Superintendent (9) Level. A 9-level can be expected to fill the position of Maintenance
Operations Flight (MOF) Superintendent, with knowledge of Maintenance Management
Analysis, Maintenance Production Management, Engine Management, Maintenance Supply
Liaison (MSL), Maintenance Training Management, Cyber/Space/Communication, and
Maintenance Operations Center (MOC). Additional training in the areas of budget, manpower,
resources, and personnel management should be pursued through continuing education.
Individuals promoted to SMSgt will attend the Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy.
Additional higher education and completion of courses outside their career AFS is also
recommended.



                                                  7
6. Training Decisions. This CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the 2R0X1 Maintenance
Management Analysis career field. The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how
to meet these training requirements. The strategy must ensure we develop affordable training,
eliminate duplication, and prevent a fragmented approach to training. The following training
decisions were made at the Career Field U&TW held at Sheppard AFB TX from 22-25 January
2013.

6.1 Initial Skills. The 3-level resident course provides training in database management and
analysis functions. The U&TW working group members revised the 3-level course. The course
stayed the same with several minor changes. The largest functions removed included DbLook,
LAF/FIQ and LAN administration. The team added a few items to include enhanced G081
training (security), refined IMDS training and LIMS-EV to better reflect current duties of
maintenance analysts.

6.2. Five Level Upgrade Requirements. To upgrade to the 5-level, personnel must meet
educational and training requirements as listed in table A8.1. Enlisted Career Path. The U&TW
working group made revisions to the supplemental course. The revisions included the removal
of IMDS requirements process and utilities objectives from the course. The team removed
Structured Query Language (SQL) and Interactive Processor Facility (IPF) requirements.
Requirements were added to emphasize the building and sharing of queries and the modification
of reports using the two primary MIS. LIMS-EV and GCSS-AFDS were also added as well as
presentation building. Overall the course was reduced from 27 to 20 days in length.

6.3. Seven Level Upgrade Requirements. To upgrade to the 7-level, personnel must meet
educational and training requirements and grade requirements as listed in table A8.1. Enlisted
Career Path. Seven levels must be a SSgt with 12 months OJT, complete core task training,
complete 7-level CDC, and complete the 7-level resident course at Sheppard AFB Texas for
upgrade to the Craftsman level. The U&TW working group made multiple changes to the 7-level
course. The largest change resulted in a reduction of the QLP, ECL and SQL training
requirements and the deletion of Global Command Support System – Air Force Data System
(GCSS-AFDS) report creation/manipulation training. Overall, the course length was reduced
from 20 days to 10 days. The Air National Guard/Air Force Reserve Command unique course
will no longer be used and all students regardless of component will attend the improved 10 day
Craftsman course.

6.4. Continuation Training. Any additional knowledge and skill requirements which were not
taught through initial or upgrade training are assigned to unit training or Training Detachments.
The purpose of the continuation training program is to provide additional training exceeding
minimum upgrade training requirements with emphasis on present and future duty positions.
MAJCOMs develop a proficiency training program that ensures individuals in the 2R0X1
Maintenance Management Analysis career field receive necessary training at the appropriate
point in their career. The program identifies both mandatory and optional training requirements.




                                               8
7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). CCAF offers and awards job-related
associate in applied science degrees and other academic credentials that enhance mission
readiness, contribute to recruiting, assist in retention and support the career transitions of Air
Force enlisted members. The college works with Air Force training centers, regional accrediting
agencies, and hundreds of cooperating civilian colleges and universities. The technical nature of
most Air Force courses, placed at the same level with college studies, can award Airmen full
college credits for most of what they learn through formal coursework and on-the-job training.
Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon completion of basic military training. CCAF provides the
opportunity to obtain an Associate in Applied Science Degree. In addition to its associate degree
program, CCAF offers the following:

7.1. Occupational Instructor Certification. Upon completion of instructor qualification
training, consisting of the Basic Instructor Course (BIC) and supervised practice teaching, CCAF
instructors who possess an associate degree or higher may be nominated by their school
commander/commandant for certification as an occupational instructor.

7.2. Instructor of Technology and Military Science Degree. Air Force and other service
enlisted personnel who are performing duty as full-time CCAF instructors may register in this
program. Airmen must hold their career-field-related CCAF degree or equivalent civilian
college degree before registration.

7.3. Degree Requirements. All Airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program.
Prior to completing an associate degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the following
requirements must be met:
                                                                                                                            Semester Hours
Technical Education..................................................................................................................24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies....................................................................…..6
Physical Education......................................................................................................................4
General Education......................................................................................................................15
Program Electives......................................................................................................................15
         Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and Military
         Studies; or General Education
Total....................................................................…...................................................................64

7.3.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): Completion of the 2R0X1 training courses
satisfies some semester hours of the technical education requirements. A minimum of 12
semester hours of Technical Core subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining semester
hours applied from Technical Core/Technical Elective courses.

          Course                                                                                                Semester Hours
      J3ABR2R031 0A3C.............................................................................................................15
      J3AZR2R0X1 0A1A..............................................................................................................9
      J3ACR2R071 0A7B...............................................................................................................7

NOTE: These are the approximate hours listed for courses. These hours will change because of revisions
being made to courses. CCAF must be contacted to get the correct number of hours for all courses.


                                                                      9
7.3.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours):           Professional
military education and/or civilian management courses.

7.3.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of
Basic Military Training.

7.3.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement with
the definitions of applicable General Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF
General Catalog.
7.3.5. Program Electives (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects/courses, including
natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Six semester hours of CCAF degree
applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied. See the
CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associate of Applied Science for this specialty.

7.4. AETC Instructor Requirements: Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is
encouraged for all. Individuals desiring to become an Air Education and Training Command
instructor should be actively pursuing an associate degree. A degreed faculty is necessary to
maintain accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.




                                              10
8. Career Field Path

Table A8.1 Enlisted Career Path
                                                     Grade Requirements
Education and Training Requirements                  Rank    Average    Earliest      High Year Of Tenure
                                                             Sew-On     Sew-On        (HYT)
Basic Military Training School
Award of 3-skill level                               Amn     6 months
Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)          A1C     16 months
Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level)                Amn     6 months
- Possess 2R031 AFSC                                 A1C     16 months
- Minimum 12 months on-the-job training (9           SrA     3 years      28 months   10 Years
 months for retrainees)
- Complete all 5 level core tasks (Trainees are
  only required to qualify on one MIS)
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when available
Airman Leadership School (ALS)
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service or
  be a SSgt Selectee
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt
  sew-on (Active Duty Only)
Trainer
- Trained and qualified to perform the task to be
  trained
- Have attended the Air Force training course.
Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)                 SSgt    7.5 years    3 years     15 Years
- Possess 2R051 AFSC
- Minimum rank of SSgt
- Complete all 5- and 7-level core tasks
- Minimum 12 months OJT (6 months OJT for
  retrainees)
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when available
- Complete advanced technical school
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)               TSgt    12.5 years   5 years     20 Years
- Must be a TSgt or TSgt Selectee
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt
  sew-on (active duty only)
USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)                      MSgt    16 years     8 years     24 Years
- SMSgt Selectee, or SMSgt
- A percentage of top non-select (for promotion to   SMSgt   19.2 years   11 years    26 Years
  E-8) MSgts attend the SNCOA each year
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for CMSgt
  sew-on (active duty only)
Upgrade To Superintendent (9-Skill Level)            CMSgt   21.5 years   14 years    30 Years
- Possess 2R071 AFSC
- Minimum rank of SMSgt




                                                     11
Table A8.2. Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist
Requirements for Upgrade to:                                                               Y   N
Journeyman
- Does the apprentice possess the 2R031 AFSC?
- Has the apprentice completed mandatory CDCs, if available?
- Has the apprentice completed all appropriate 5-level core tasks identified in the CFETP?
- Has the apprentice completed 12 months training (9 months for retrainees) for award of
  the 5-skill level?
- Has the apprentice met mandatory requirements listed in specialty description, AFECD,
  and CFETP?
- Has the apprentice been recommended by their supervisor?

Craftsman
- Does the journeyman possess the 2R051 AFSC
- Has the journeyman achieved the rank of SSgt?
- Has the journeyman completed mandatory CDCs?
- Has the journeyman completed all core tasks identified in the CFETP?
- Has the journeyman attended 7-skill level Craftsman Course?
   Before attending, they must complete:
   -- All 7-level training requirements listed in the CFETP.
- Has the journeyman completed a minimum 12 months UGT (6 months UGT for
  retrainees) for award of the 7-skill level?



TO: Squadron/CC
FROM: Squadron Training Manager
SUBJECT: Upgrade Trainee

Trainee is prepared to be upgraded and has completed all training requirements.

_______________________                             _______________________
    Training Manager                                             Supervisor




                                               12
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK




                13
Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements

9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in the 2R0X1 career field are defined in terms of
tasks and knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements
for each skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry,
award and retention of each skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements
are identified in the STS at Part II, Sections C and E of this CFETP.

10. Specialty Qualification:

10.1. Apprentice Level Training:

10.1.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is located in the official specialty description
in AFECD.

10.1.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of maintenance and operations organizational
management and procedures applying to aircraft, missiles, communications-electronics, space
systems, or related equipment; applied statistical procedures and analytical data systems design;
MIS and desktop computer operation and use; and concepts and application of directives.

10.1.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, computer literacy and completion of high
school with courses in Algebra, English composition, effective writing, and typing are desirable.

10.1.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2R031, completion of a basic maintenance management
analysis course is mandatory.

10.1.1.4. Experience. None

10.1.1.5. Other. Specialty requires routine access to Secret material or similar environment.
For award and retention of AFSC 2R031/51/71, completion of a current National Agency Check,
Local Agency Checks and Credit (NACLC) according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security
Program Management.

10.1.2. Training Sources and Resources. The 3-level initial skills course will provide the
required knowledge, qualification, and applicable certification. Initial skills training consists of
statistical methods of data analysis, computer application software, data retrieval techniques, the
operation / maintenance of MIS, the procedures for maintaining and correcting data systems, the
interpretation and use of reports from MISs, and the presentation of maintenance data.

10.1.3. Implementation. Upon graduation from Basic Military Training (BMT), completion of
course J3ABR2R031 0A3B, Maintenance Management Analysis Apprentice, satisfies the
knowledge and training resource requirements for award of the 3-skill level for Maintenance
Management Analysis trainees.




                                                 14
10.2. Journeyman Level Training:

10.2.1. Specialty Qualification.

10.2.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to the 3-level qualifications, a 5-skill level must possess the
knowledge and skills necessary to apply statistical, analytical, and presentation techniques and
manage / maintain MIS. A 5-level must have knowledge of desktop computer operation and use
of software, using the database area schematic, using the database schema / subschema,
identifying logic / structural errors, using Job Data Documentation (JDD) subsystem, using
Maintenance Data Documentation (MDD) reference materials, using conversational Query
Language Processor (QLP), FOCUS for G081 units, using, processing on-line inquiries /
background reports; using Generated Runstream (GENRUN), using descriptive statistics, using
predictive analysis, computing performance indicators, performing time series analysis, and
completing special studies and documenting referrals.

10.2.1.2. Education. There is no additional education requirements beyond those defined for the
apprentice level. However, completion of a CCAF degree is desirable.

10.2.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2R051, the 5-level CDC provides the career knowledge
training required. Qualification training and OJT will provide training and qualification on the
core tasks identified in the STS. The CDC is written to build from the trainee's current
knowledge base, and provides more in-depth knowledge to support OJT requirements.

10.2.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2R031 is mandatory. Also,
experience in analysis activities is required.

10.2.1.5. Other. None.

10.2.2. Training Sources and Resources. A minimum of 12 months OJT (9 months for
retrainees), completion of the 2R051 CDC and 5-level core tasks represent the resources needed
for award of the 5-skill level.

10.2.3. Implementation. Training to the 5-level is performed by the units utilizing STS,
exportable courses, and CDCs. Upgrade to the 5-level requires completion of the CDC,
completion of 5 level core tasks, and 12 months OJT (9 months for retrainees).

10.3. Craftsman Level Training:

10.3.1. Specialty Qualification.

10.3.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to 5-level qualifications, an individual must possess advanced
skills and knowledge of theory, concepts, principles and application of statistical, analytical, and
presentation techniques; maintaining / operating MIS and evaluating / analyzing MIS data.
Qualification is required on using Query Language Processor (QLP) Report Writer, FOCUS for
G081 units, using the analysis process, developing hypothesis statements, performing parametric
/ nonparametric tests, performing sampling techniques, and developing control charts.



                                                 15
10.3.1.2. Education. There is no additional education requirements beyond those defined for the
apprentice level. However, completion of a CCAF degree is desirable.

10.3.1.3. Training. Completion of mandatory CDCs, all 5 and 7-level core tasks, and resident 7-
level resident course are mandatory for upgrade to 2R071.

10.3.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2R051 is mandatory. Also,
experience performing or supervising analysis functions and activities is required.

10.3.1.5. Other. None.

10.3.2. Training Sources and Resources. Completion of the J3ACR2R071 0A7B course at
Sheppard AFB Texas, completion of applicable 7-level CDCs, along with supervisor
certification of Air Force directed core tasks represent the resources required for award of the 7-
skill level. The requirements listed in Part II list the training provided by the 7-level resident
course at Sheppard AFB Texas.

10.3.3. Implementation. Upgrade to the 7-level will require completion of all AF core tasks, 12
months OJT (6 months for retrainees) as a SSgt, completion of the 7-level CDCs and resident 7-
level course at Sheppard AFB Texas.

10.4. Superintendent Level Training:

10.4.1. Specialty Qualification.

10.4.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of maintenance analysis, plans, scheduling,
documentation, engine management, supply liaison, training management, and MOC functions;
maintenance concepts, directives, and organizational structure; Air Force supply procedures and
resource management. In addition to the 7-level qualifications, an individual must possess
advanced skills and knowledge of statistical and analytical techniques; maintaining / operating
and managing MIS; analyzing deficiencies in areas such as equipment performance, material
consumption, scheduling, management and resources; deficiency impact on the maintenance
mission; and results of corrective actions, and evaluating / analyzing and interpreting MIS data.

10.4.1.2. Education. There is no additional education requirements beyond those defined for the
apprentice level. However, completion of a CCAF degree is desirable.

10.4.1.3. Training. None

10.4.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2R171/2R071 is mandatory.
Also, experience managing maintenance scheduling or analysis activities is required.

10.4.2. Training Sources and Resources. Duty position qualifications represent the required
resources for upgrade to the 9-skill level.

10.4.3. Implementation. The 9-level will be awarded upon promotion to SMSgt.



                                                16
Section D - Resource Constraints

11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints that preclude optimal/desired
training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower.
Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what
effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section are actions
required, office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource constraints will
be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

There are no resource constraints identified for 2R0X1 training.




                                                17
PART II

Section A - Course Objective List

1. Measurement. Each proficiency coded STS task or knowledge item taught at the technical
school is measured through the use of an objective. An objective is a written instruction for the
student so he or she knows what is expected of them to successfully complete training on each
task. Each objective consists of a condition, behavior, and standard. The condition is the setting
in which the training takes place (i.e. TOs, type of equipment, etc.). The behavior is the
observable portion of the objective (i.e. perform an operational check). The standard is the level
of performance that is measured to ensure the STS proficiency code level is attained. Each
objective uses letter codes(s) to identify how it is measured. All objectives use the PC code that
indicates a progress check is used to measure subject or task knowledge. “W” indicates a
comprehensive written test and is used to measure the subject or task knowledge at the end of a
block of instruction. “PC/W” indicates a subject or task knowledge progress check and a
separate measurement of both knowledge and performance elements using a written test.

2. Standard. The standard for written examinations is 70%. Standards for performance
objectives are indicated in the objective and are also indicated on the individual progress check
checklist. The checklist is used by the instructor to document each student’s progress on each
task. Instructor assistance is provided as needed during the progress check, and students may be
required to repeat all or part of the behavior until satisfactory performance is attained. Students
must satisfactorily complete all PCs prior to taking the written test.

3. Proficiency Level. Review column 4A of the STS to determine the proficiency level of a
particular task or knowledge item. Review the course objective list to determine which STS item
the objective supports. Review the proficiency code key in Part II, Section E of this CFETP for
an explanation of the proficiency codes. Most task performance is taught to the “2b” proficiency
level which means the students can do most parts of the task, but does need assistance on the
hardest parts of the task (partially proficient). The student can also determine step by step
procedures for doing the task.

4. Course Objectives. A detailed listing of initial skills or craftsman course objectives may be
obtained by submitting a written request to 363 TRS/TRR, 520 Missile Road, Sheppard AFB TX
76311-8777or contact the OPR by telephone at DSN 736-8777.

Section B - Support Materials

5. Support materials for the 2R0X1 career field are available at the following web sites:

5.1. Maintenance Management Community of Practice is available at:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-LG-MM-A1




                                                18
5.2. Interactive Courseware information is available online through the Air Force Aircraft
Maintenance and Munitions Training website. Members must first register before gaining access
to this website.
https://a4mxtng.csd.disa.mil/kc/login/login.asp?kc_ident=kc0015&blnAccess=TRUE

5.3. Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command Analysis information is available at:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-LG-MM-A2

5.4. Unisys manuals are available from Product Support Documentation Libraries at
http://public.support.unisys.com/common/epa/documentationlibraries.aspx

5.5. IQU manuals are available from KMSYS website at http://www.kmsys.com/Products/I-
QUPLUS-1/Documentation.asp

Section C - Training Course Index:

6. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the specialty
and shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field training programs.
For further information on the following courses, contact the OPR at:

       363 TRS/TRR
       520 Missile Road
       Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2261
       DSN 736-8777

7. Air Force In-Resident Courses.

 COURSE NO.      COURSE TITLE                               LOCATION         USER
 J3ABR2R031 0A3C Maintenance Management Analysis Apprentice Sheppard AFB, TX USAF
 J3AZR2R0X1 0A1A Maintenance Management Analysis                          Sheppard AFB, TX USAF
                 Supplemental
 J3ACR2R071 0A7B Maintenance Management Analysis Craftsman                Sheppard AFB, TX USAF

8. Air Force Institute for Advanced Distance Learning (AFIADL) Courses.

For further information on the following courses, contact the OPR at:

       363 TRS/TRR
       520 Missile Road
       Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2261
       DSN 736-8777




                                               19
 COURSE NO.              COURSE TITLE                                               User
 CDC 2R051               Maintenance Management Analysis Journeyman                 USAF

 CDC 2R071               Maintenance Management Analysis Craftsmen                  USAF


9. Exportable Courses.

For further information on the following exportable courses, contact the OPRs at:

367 TRSS/Catalog
6058 Aspen Ave
Bldg 1295
Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805
DSN 777-5868



COURSE NO.             COURSE TITLE                                     OPR         User
A2ADU00OCB4041         G081 Analysis                                    367 TRS USAF
A6MDU00TCB0081         G081 Focus                                       367 TRS USAF
A6MDU00TCB0082         G081 Maintenance Data Collection                 367 TRS USAF
A3ADU00OTI6249         G081 Plans and Scheduling                        367 TRS USAF
A4ADU00OCB6616         G081 Supply Process Training                     367 TRS USAF
C6ANU00TVT7506         Combat Sortie Generation                         367 TRS USAF
C2MDU00TCB7567         Aerospace Vehicle Distribution Officer           367 TRS USAF
                       (AVDO) Reference

10. Other Supplemental Courses.

There are no additional supplemental courses for this AFSC.

11. Training Detachment (TD) Courses.

There are no TD courses for the 2R0X1 career field.

12. REMIS Courses

The REMIS CBT courses are provided by 754 ELSG/ILX and available at the following URL:
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/browse.do?categoryId=p6925EC16AF830FB5E044080020E329A9&channelPageId
=s6925EC1357EF0FB5E044080020E329A9



                                               20
Section D - MAJCOM Unique Requirements

13. For MAJCOM unique requirements, refer to the MAJCOM mandatory course lists.

Section E - Specialty Training Standard

14. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC for
classes beginning with course J3ABR2R031 0A3CB, January 2014 and course J3ACR2R071
0A7B October 2013. Course J3AZR2R0X1 0A1A is not governed by this STS. It has a separate
Course Training Standard (CTS) that will be developed, and the new course will begin February
2014.

15. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:

15.1. Lists in column 1 the most common tasks, knowledge, and Technical References (TR)
necessary for Airman to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level.

15.2. Identifies in column 2 (Core Tasks) by asterisk (*), specialty-wide training requirements.
As a minimum, all AFCFM directed core tasks applicable to this specialty must be completed
and signed off for skill level upgrade. Complete all 5-level core tasks associated with one MIS
(either G081 or IMDS) per AFI 36-2232, paragraph 3.4.1. There is no longer an Air Force
requirement for third-party certification of core tasks in this AFSC. However, MAJCOMs,
commanders, and work center supervisors still retain the option to designate critical tasks (core
or non-core) as requiring third-party certification. To designate a task as requiring third-party
certification, circle the appropriate asterisk in the core task column on the specialty training
standard (STS) portion of the CFETP in the master task list (MTL) and individual training
records. If the task is not already designated as a core task, place just the circle at the appropriate
location in the core task column.

15.3. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and
knowledge training requirements. Use authorized automated system to document technician
qualifications, if available. Task certification must show a certification/completed date.

15.4. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the
proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the
task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course.

15.5. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to
indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career
development courses.




                                                  21
15.6. Job Qualification Standard. Becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job
training when placed in AF Form 623, Individual Training Record or TBA, and used according
to AFI 36-2201. For OJT, the tasks in column 1 are trained and qualified to the go/no go level.
"Go" means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets local requirements
for accuracy, timeliness, and correct procedures. When used as a JQS, the following
requirements apply:

15.6.1. Documentation. Document and certify completion of training in accordance with AFI
36-2201. TBA must be used when available.

15.6.2. Converting from Old Document to CFETP. All AFJQSs and previous CFETPs are
replaced by this CFETP; therefore, conversion of all training records to this CFETP STS is
mandatory. Use this CFETP STS (or automated STS) to identify and certify all past and current
qualifications. Document and certify all previous and current training IAW AFI 36-2201.

15.7. STS. This STS is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman
Promotion System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the USAF
Occupational Measurement Squadron, by Senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in
their career fields. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test
development team members as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are
based upon study references listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are in AFI
36-2502, Airman Promotion/Demotion Programs. WAPS is not applicable to the Air National
Guard or Air Force Reserve.

16. Recommendations. Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates to
the AETC training manager at 363 TRS/TRR, 520 Missile Road, Sheppard AFB TX, 76311-
2261, DSN 736-8777, or e-mail to: donnie.manos@us.af.mil. Please reference specific STS
paragraphs. For a quick response to problems, call our customer service information line, DSN
736-5236.


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE



OFFICIAL
                                          JUDITH A. FEDDER
                                          Lieutenant General, USAF
                                          DCS/Installations, Logistics, and Mission Support



2 Attachments
1. Proficiency Code Key
2. Qualitative Requirements




                                              22
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK




                23
                                                         PROFICIENCY CODE KEY
                                                                                                                                    STS 2R0X1
This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name of Trainee (Last, First, Middle Initial)                      Initials (Written)                SSAN (Last 4 only)

Printed Name Of Training/Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                             N/I

N/I                                                                             N/I

N/I                                                                             N/I

N/I                                                                             N/I

N/I                                                                             N/I

N/I                                                                             N/I

N/I                                                                             N/I

N/I                                                                             N/I

N/I                                                                             N/I

N/I                                                                             N/I


                                                          Proficiency Code Key
                       Scale                  Definition: The individual
                       Value
                       1                      IS EXTREMELY LIMITED (Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do
                                              most of the task.)
Task                   2                      IS PARTIALLY PROFICIENT (Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts.)
Performance            3                      IS COMPETENT (Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work.)
Levels                 4                      IS HIGHLY PROFICIENT (Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show
                                              others how to do the task.)
                       a                      KNOWS NOMENCLATURE (Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task.)
*Task                  b                      KNOWS PROCEDURES (Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task.)
Knowledge              c                      KNOWS OPERATING PRINCIPLES (Can identify why and when the task must be done and why
                                              each step is needed.)
Levels                 d                      KNOWS ADVANCED THEORY (Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task.)
                       A                      KNOWS FACTS (Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject.)
**Subject              B                      KNOWS PRINCIPLES (Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about
                                              the subject.)
Knowledge              C                      KNOWS ANALYSIS (Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject.)
Levels                 D                      KNOWS EVALUATION (Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject.)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)
** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.
- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the courses or CDCs.
/ This mark is used in course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources (3c/b, 2b/b, 2b/-, etc.).

NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during wartime.




                                                                              24
                                                                                                                                    Attachment 1
This Page Intentionally Left Blank




                25
                                     Attachment 1
                                                                                                                                                            STS 2R0X1
                                                         2.            3. Certification For OJT                                         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                                        Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References             Core             A           B             C             D            E          A        B            C
                                                         Tasks                                                                          3 Skill   5 Skill      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                                        Level     Level
                                                                         Tng          Tng         Trainee       Trainer     Certifier     (1)       (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                         Start      Complete      Initials      Initials    Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC
                                                         5       7
NOTE 1: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references, pending STS revision.

NOTE 2: All items marked with a code in column 4a (1) are trained in resident wartime courses.

NOTE 3: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) are core tasks required for upgrade to the 5 or 7-skill level. Seven levels must complete both 5 and 7-level core
         tasks.
A2.1.         Career Progression
              TR: AFI 36-2101, Air Force Enlisted
                                                                                                                                          A         -          -           -
              Classification Directory (AFECD)

A2.2.         Technical Publications;
              TR: T.O. 00-5-1, AFI 33-360, vol. 1

A2.2.1.       Use Air Force Instructions (AFIs)
                                                             *                                                                            b         -          -           -
A2.2.2.       Use Air Force Computer Systems
              Manual (AFCSM) 21-XXX series                   *                                                                           2b         -          -           -

A2.2.3.       Use Technical Orders
                                                             *                                                                           2b         -          -           -
A2.3.         Maintenance Organization
              Familiarization TR: AFI 21-101

A2.3.1.       Functional responsibilities of the
              Senior Maintenance Manager                                                                                                  -         B          -           -

A2.3.2.       Basic functions of the aircraft
              maintenance complex                                                                                                         A         B          -           -

A2.3.3.       Debrief
                                                                                                                                          A         B          -           -
A2.3.4.       Inspection systems
              TR: TO 00-20 series                                                                                                         A         B          -           -

A2.4.         Maintenance Data Documentation
              (MDD) TR: T.O. 00-20-1, 00-20-2

A2.4.1.       MDD concept
                                                                                                                                          B         -          -           -
A2.4.2.       MDD codes
                                                                                                                                          B         -          -           -
A2.5.         Supervision
              TR: AFI 36-2406, 36-2618
              AFECD

A2.5.1.       Orient new personnel
                                                                                                                                          -         -          -           -
A2.5.2.       Assign personnel to work areas
                                                                                                                                          -         -          -           -
A2.5.3.       Plan work assignments and priorities
                                                                                                                                          -         -          -           -
A2.5.4.       Schedule work assignments
                                                                                                                                          -         -          -           -
A2.5.5.       Establish

A2.5.5.1.     Work methods
                                                                                                                                          -         -          -           -
A2.5.5.2.     Work controls
                                                                                                                                          -         -          -           -
A2.5.5.3.     Performance standards
                                                                                                                                          -         -          -           -


                                                                                          26
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                                        STS 2R0X1
                                                       2.              3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                    Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           Core               A           B             C          D           E          A        B            C
                                                       Tasks                                                                        3 Skill   5 Skill      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                                    Level     Level
                                                                         Tng          Tng         Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                         Start      Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC
                                                       5       7
A2.5.6.      Evaluate work performance of
             subordinate personnel                                                                                                    -         -          -           -

A2.5.7.      Resolve technical problems for
             subordinate personnel                                                                                                    -         -          -           -

A2.5.8.      Counsel personnel and resolve
             individual problems                                                                                                      -         -          -           -

A2.5.9.      Initiate action to correct substandard
             performance by personnel                                                                                                 -         -          -           -

A2.5.10.     Unit self-inspection
                                                                                                                                      -         A          -          B
A2.6.        OJT trainer requirements
             TR: AFI 36-2201, 33-2101; AFECD
A2.6.1       Prepare master training plan (MTP)
                                                                                                                                      -         -          -           -
A2.6.2.      Prepare teaching outlines or task
             breakdowns                                                                                                               -         -          -           -

A2.6.3.      Provide trainees theory and train on
             actual equipment                                                                                                         -         -          -           -

A2.6.4.      Provide feedback on training provided
                                                                                                                                      -         -          -           -
A2.6.5.      Maintain Training Records
                                                                                                                                      -         -          -           -
A2.7.        Statistics
             TR: Commercial text; MAJCOM
             implementing instructions
A2.7.1.      Use descriptive statistics (Data
             distribution, measures of central             *                                                                         2b         b          -           -
             tendency, and measures of variability)
A2.7.2.      Develop hypothesis statements
                                                                   *                                                                  -         -         2b          b
A2.7.3.      Perform parametric tests (Normality
             testing – T-test for outliers, Analysis
             of Variance (ANOVA) – two sample                      *                                                                  -         -         2b          b
             test, testing sample means – t-test for
             two samples)
A2.7.4.      Perform non-parametric test (Mann-
             Whitney U test for comparison of two
                                                                   *                                                                  -         -         2b          b
             groups, Kruskal-Wallis H test and Chi-
             square test)
A2.7.5.      Statistical Process Control

A2.7.5.1.    Data tools/Process analysis (Charts
             and Diagrams)                                                                                                            A         B          -           -

A2.7.5.2.    Perform sampling techniques
                                                           *                                                                         2b         b          -           -
A2.7.5.3.    Perform time series analysis
                                                           *                                                                         2b         b          -           -
A2.7.5.4.    Develop control charts
                                                           *                                                                         2b         b          -           -
A2.7.6.      Predictive Analysis
             TR: Commercial text and MAJCOM
             implementing instructions

A2.7.6.1.    Purpose of predictive analysis
                                                                                                                                      A         B          -           -


                                                                                          27
                                                                                                                                                    Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                                         STS 2R0X1
                                                        2.              3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                                     Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                     Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            Core               A           B             C          D           E          A        B            C
                                                        Tasks                                                                        3 Skill   5 Skill      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                                     Level     Level
                                                                          Tng          Tng         Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                          Start      Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC
                                                        5       7
A2.7.6.2.    Types of predictive analysis
                                                                                                                                       A         B          -           -
A2.7.6.3.    Perform regression analysis
                                                            *                                                                         2b         b          -           -
A2.7.6.4.    Perform correlation analysis
                                                            *                                                                         2b         b          -           -
A2.7.6.5.    Perform a trend analysis
                                                            *                                                                         2b         b          -           -
A2.7.6.6.    Perform extrapolation
                                                            *                                                                         2b         b          -           -
A2.7.6.7.    Calculate Probabilities
                                                            *                                                                         2b         b          -           -
A2.7.7.      Use 12-step analysis process (Collect,
             verify, manipulate, compare, review,
             analyze, problem-solving, research,
                                                                    *                                                                  b         b         3c          c
             investigate, evaluate, present findings,
             and follow-up)

A2.8.        Health Of Fleet (HOF) indicators
             TR: TO 00-20-2; MAJCOM
             implementing instructions

A2.8.1.      Maintenance performance indicators

A2.8.1.1.    Purpose and use
                                                                                                                                       A         B          -           -
A2.8.1.2.    Compute system reliability / capability
                                                            *                                                                         2b         b          -           -
A2.8.1.3.    Compute base repair capability
                                                                                                                                      2b         b          -           -
A2.8.1.4.    Maintenance scheduling
                                                                                                                                       A         B          -           -
             effectiveness
A2.8.1.5.    Compute maintenance, personnel,
             airframe, and facilities capability                                                                                       a         b          -          b

A2.8.1.6.    Compute aircraft availability
                                                                                                                                      2b         b          -           -
A2.8.1.7.    Compute aircraft status rates
                                                            *                                                                         2b         b          -           -
A2.8.1.8.    Compute deviation rates
                                                            *                                                                         2b         b          -           -
A2.8.1.9.    Compute flying schedule effectiveness
             rate                                           *                                                                         2b         b          -           -

A2.8.1.10.   Compute man-hours per flying hour
                                                                                                                                      2b         b          -           -
A2.8.1.11.   Compute fix rate
                                                            *                                                                         2b         b          -           -
A2.8.1.12.   Compute break rate
                                                            *                                                                         2b         b          -           -
A2.8.1.13.   Compute repeat/recur rates
                                                            *                                                                         2b         b          -           -
A2.8.1.14.   Compute deferred discrepancies
                                                            *                                                                         2b         b          -           -
A2.8.1.15    Compute cannibalization rate
                                                            *                                                                         2b         b          -           -
A2.8.1.16.   Abort rates

A2.8.1.16.1. Compute ground abort rate
                                                            *                                                                         2b         b          -           -
A2.8.1.16.2. Compute air abort rate
                                                            *                                                                         2b         b          -           -


                                                                                           28
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                                 STS 2R0X1
                                                    2.          3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        Core           A           B             C          D           E          A        B            C
                                                    Tasks                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                             Level     Level
                                                                  Tng          Tng         Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                  Start      Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC
                                                    5       7
A2.8.1.16.3. Compute total abort rates
                                                        *                                                                     2b         b          -           -
A2.8.2.       Utilization rates

A2.8.2.1.     Compute program utilization rates
                                                                                                                               -         b          -           -
A2.8.2.2.     Compute actual utilization rates
                                                        *                                                                     2b         b          -           -
A2.8.2.3.     Compute departure reliability rates
                                                        *                                                                     2b         b          -           -
A2.8.2.4.     Compute Mean Time Between Failure
              (MTBF)                                                                                                           -         b          -           -

A2.8.2.5.     Compute Mean Time To Repair
              (MTTR)                                                                                                           -         b          -           -

A2.8.2.6.     Compute Mean Time Between Critical
              Failure (MTBCF)                                                                                                  -         b          -           -

A2.8.2.7.     Compute Mean Time Between
              Maintenance Actions (MTBMA)                                                                                      -         b          -           -

A2.8.2.8      Compute attrition rates
                                                        *                                                                     2b         b          -           -
A2.8.2.9      Compute spare factor
                                                                                                                               -         b          -           -
A2.8.3        Cyber/Space/Communications
              Systems performance indicators
              TR: T.O. 00-33A-1001

A2.8.3.1.     Compute Operational Availability
              (Ao)                                                                                                             -         b          -           -

A2.8.3.2.     Compute Operational Readiness (Or)
                                                                                                                               -         b          -           -
A2.8.3.3.     Compute Mean Down Time (MDT)
                                                                                                                               -         b          -           -
A2.8.3.4.     Compute Mean Repair Time (MRT)
                                                                                                                               -         b          -           -
A2.8.3.5.     Compute Mean Time Between Failure
              (MTBF)                                                                                                           -         b          -           -

A2.8.3.6.     Compute Mean Time Between Critical
              Failures (MTBCF)                                                                                                 -         b          -           -

A2.8.3.7.     Compute Mean Time Between
              Maintenance (MTBM)                                                                                               -         b          -           -

A2.8.3.8.     Compute utilization rate
                                                                                                                               -         b          -           -
A2.8.3.9.     Compute Maintenance Labor-Hours
              per Active Hour (MLH/AH)                                                                                         -         b          -           -

A2.8.3.10.    Compute Operational Dependability
              (Do)                                                                                                             -         b          -           -

A2.8.3.11.    Compute Mean Time To Restore
              Functions (MTTRF)                                                                                                -         b          -           -

A2.8.3.12.    Compute Mean Time Between
              Downing Events (MTBDE)                                                                                           -         b          -           -



                                                                                   29
                                                                                                                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                                   STS 2R0X1
                                                  2.              3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                               Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                               Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      Core               A           B             C          D           E          A        B            C
                                                  Tasks                                                                        3 Skill   5 Skill      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                               Level     Level
                                                                    Tng          Tng         Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                    Start      Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC
                                                  5       7
A2.8.3.13.   Compute Mean Time Between
             Unscheduled Maintenance (MTBUM)                                                                                     -         b          -           -

A2.8.3.14.   Compute Mean Time Between
             Scheduled Maintenance (MTBSM)                                                                                       -         b          -           -

A2.9.        Report Analysis Findings/Special
             Studies
A2.9.1.      Purpose and description
                                                                                                                                 B         -          -           -
A2.9.2.      Prepare and present
                                                              *                                                                  -         b         3c          c
A2.9.3.      Prepare Maintenance Summary
                                                                                                                                2b         b          -           -
A2.10.       Meetings/Briefings
             TR: AFH 33-337

A2.10.1.     Purpose
                                                                                                                                 -         -          -           -
A2.10.2.     Prepare for and participate
                                                                                                                                 -         -          -           -
A2.10.3.     Plan
                                                                                                                                 -         -          -           -
A2.10.4.     Conduct
                                                                                                                                 -         -          -           -
A2.11.       Computers
             TR: Applicable user manuals

A2.11.1.     Use software

A2.11.1.1.   Operating system
                                                                                                                                2b         -          -           -
A2.11.1.2.   Word processing
                                                      *                                                                         2b         -          -           -
A2.11.1.3.   Spreadsheets
                                                      *                                                                         2b         -          -           -
A2.11.1.4.   Database systems
                                                      *                                                                         2b         -          -           -
A2.11.1.5.   Presentation software
                                                      *                                                                         2b         -          -           -
A2.11.1.6.   Electronic mail
                                                                                                                                 b         -          -           -
A2.11.1.7.   Use/Configure MIAP
                                                                                                                                2b         b          -           -
A2.11.1.8.   Upload / Download files
                                                                                                                                2b         b          -           -
A2.12.       Data Processing
             TR: AFCSM 21-5XX vol. 2,
             series 21-556 vol. 1; AFI 33-101;
             MAJCOM implementing instructions;
             Unisys publication series

A2.12.1.     Aircraft mishap MIS procedures
                                                      *                                                                          b         b          -           -
A2.12.2      Integrated Maintenance Data System
             (IMDS)

A2.12.2.1.   Methods of data processing

A2.12.2.1.1. Perform Tip / Demand / Batch
             processing                               *                                                                         2b         B          -           -


                                                                                     30
                                                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                                   STS 2R0X1
                                                      2.          3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                               Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                               Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          Core           A           B             C          D           E          A        B            C
                                                      Tasks                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                               Level     Level
                                                                    Tng          Tng         Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                    Start      Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC
                                                      5       7
A2.12.2.1.2. Use pseudo processing for batch
             (PSUPRB)                                                                                                            -         B          -           -

A2.12.2.2.    Data Management System (DMS)
              Schema / Subschema and Relational
              Data Management System (RDMS)
              Schema

A2.12.2.2.1. Define DMS / RDMS Schema /
             Subschema                                                                                                           B         B          -           -

A2.12.2.2.2. Use DMS / RDMS Schema /
             Subschema                                                                                                          2b         B          -           -

A2.12.2.2.3. DMS Area Schematic / RDMS tables
                                                                                                                                 B         B          -           -
A2.12.2.2.4. Use DMS Area Schematic / RDMS
             tables                                                                                                             2b         B          -           -

A2.12.2.2.5. Identify logic / structure errors
                                                                                                                                 -         B          -           -
A2.12.2.3.    Subsystem Familiarization

A2.12.2.3.1. Basic knowledge of subsystems
                                                                                                                                 A         B          -           -
A2.12. 2.3.2. Subsystem monitor responsibilities
                                                                                                                                 B         B          -           -
A2.12. 2.3.3. Assist customers and subsystem
              monitors with technical problems                                                                                   -         -          -           -

A2.12. 2.3.4. Use Job Data Documentation (JDD)
              subsystem                                   *                                                                     2b         B          -           -

A2.12.2.4.    Monitor System Interfaces

A2.12.2.4.1. Initiate Interactive Communication
             (ICI) Interface TR: AFCSM 21-571,
                                                                                                                                 -         B          -           -
              Vol. 2

A2.12.2.4.2. Monitor Reliability and
             Maintainability Information System
             (REMIS) interface programs                                                                                          -         B          -           -
              TR: AFCSM 21-571, vol 2

A2.12.2.4.3. Change REMIS interface password
             TR: AFCSM 21-556, vol 1                                                                                             -         -          -           -

A2.12.2.4.4. Monitor weapons system interface
             TR: AFCSM 21-571, vol 2                                                                                             -         -          -           -

A2.12.2.4.5. Equipment transfer process
                                                                                                                                 -         B          -           -
             TR: AFCSM 21-567, vol 2
A2.12.2.5    Aerospace vehicle Configuration
             management

A2.14. 2.5.1. Purpose
                                                                                                                                 -         -          -          B
A2.14. 2.5.2. Identify approved configuration items
                                                                                                                                 -         -          -          B
A2.14. 2.5.3. Auditing of configuration records
                                                                                                                                 -         -          -          B



                                                                                     31
                                                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                                 STS 2R0X1
                                                    2.          3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        Core           A           B             C          D           E          A        B            C
                                                    Tasks                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                             Level     Level
                                                                  Tng          Tng         Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                  Start      Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC
                                                    5       7
A2.12.2.6      Mainframe system files

A2.12. 2.6.1. Application program files
                                                                                                                               -         B          -           -
A2.12. 2.6.2. Support files
                                                                                                                               -         B          -           -
A2.12.2.7.     IMDS Administration

A2.12.2.7.1. Responsibilities of Network Control
             Center (NCC), Defense Enterprise
             Computing Center (DECC), and                                                                                      A         B          -           -
             Field Assistance Service (FAS)

A2.12.2.7.2. Prepare IT/NSS Requirements
             Document
             TR: IMDS Requirements Website,                                                                                    -         b          -           -
             AFCSM 21-556, vol 2

A2.12.2.8.     Releases

A2.12.2.8.1. Effects and purposes
                                                                                                                               A         B          -           -
A2.12.2.8.2. Perform special instructions
                                                                                                                               -         -          -           -
A2.12.2.8.3. Coordinate
                                                                                                                               -         -          -           -
A2.12.2.8.4.    Difficulty Reports (DIREPs)
                                                                                                                               A         B          -           -
A2.12.2.9.     Heads Up Messages (HUMs)

A2.12.2.9.1. Purpose
                                                                                                                               A         -          -           -
A2.12.2.9.2. Use
                                                                                                                               -         B          -           -
A2.12.2.10.    System Advisory Notices (SANs)

A2.12.2.10.1. Purpose
                                                                                                                               A         -          -           -
A2.12.2.10.2. Use
                                                                                                                               -         B          -           -
A2.12.2.11.    Coordination (Downtime, special
               programs)

A2.12.2.11.1. System administration procedures
                                                                                                                               -         B          -           -
A2.12.2.11.2. Use checklist to demonstrate
              notification process                                                                                             -         -          -           -

A2.12.2.11.3. Monthly utilities
                                                                                                                               -         A          -           -
A2.12.2.12.    IMDS Security

A2.12.2.12.1. User-ID security
                                                                                                                               A         B          -           -
A2.12.2.12.2. Profile Transaction Identifier Code
                                                                                                                               A         B          -           -
              (TRIC) security
A2.12.2.12.3. Manage user profiles
                                                        *                                                                     2b         b          -           -
A2.12.2.12.4. Site Management Application
                                                                                                                               -         A          -           -
              (SIMAN) TR: TQ-01151
A2.12.2.12.5. System Authorization Access Request
                                                                                                                               A         -          -           -
              (SAAR) DD Form 2875

                                                                                   32
                                                                                                                                             Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                                    STS 2R0X1
                                                      2.           3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                                Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          Core            A           B             C          D           E          A        B            C
                                                      Tasks                                                                     3 Skill   5 Skill      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                                Level     Level
                                                                     Tng          Tng         Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                     Start      Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC
                                                      5        7
A2.12.2.13    Database Utilities
              TR: AFCSM 21-5XX

A2.12.2.13.1. Monitor JDD Delete History SHM
                                                                                                                                  -         B          -           -
              (NFS760)
A2.12.2.13.2. Process monthly man-hour summary
                                                                                                                                  -         B          -           -
              WAH (NFS910)
A2.12.2.13.3. Monitor Delete History DLH (NFS120
                                                                                                                                  -         B          -           -
A2.12.2.13.4. Monitor REMIS Reconciliation
                                                                                                                                  -         B          -           -
              Program (NFS5B0)
A2.12.2.13.5. TCTO resynchronization (NFS5M0)
                                                                                                                                  -         -          -           -
A2.12.2.13.6. Annual SRD reconciliation (NFS840)
                                                                                                                                  -         B          -           -
A2.12.2.13.7. File Update mode MIK (NFSZ70)
                                                                                                                                  -         B          -           -
A2.12.2.13.8. Use Database Look (DBLook)
                                                                                                                                  -         -          -           -
A2.12.2.13.9. Use LAF/FIQ
                                                                                                                                  -         -          -           -
A2.12.2.13.10. Monitor database save
                                                                                                                                  -         -          -           -
A2.12.2.14.   Executive Management Utilities
              TR: UP series

A2.12.2.14.1. Query Language Processor (QLP)
              TR: UP 7830 7493, 7845, 7833 0974

A2.12.2.14.1.1.        Use conversational QLP
                                                                                                                                 2b         B          -           -
A2.12.2.14.1.2.        Perform QLP report writing
                                                                                                                                  -         B          -           -
A2.12.2.14.1.3.        Use Structured Query
                       Language                                                                                                   -         B          -           -

A2.12.2.14.1.4.        Use macros / procedures
                                                                                                                                  -         B          -           -
A2.12.2.14.2. Interactive Query Utility (IQU)
              TR: KMSYS Application Development
              User Guide, Programmer Reference

A2.12.2.14.2.1.        Use conversational IQU
                                                                                                                                  -         -          -           -
A2.12.2.14.2.2.        Use IQU programming
                                                                                                                                  -         -          -           -
A2.12.2.14.3. Interactive Processing Facility (IPF)
              TR: UP 7833 4018, 3812, 3804, 3788,
               3770, 3762

A2.12.2.14.3.1.        Use IPF
                                                           *                                                                     1b         B          -           -
A2.12.2.14.3.2.     Use Structured Query Language
(SQL)         TR: UP 7831 0778, 7830 8160                                                                                         -         B          -           -

A2.12.2.14.3.3         Use Executive Control
                       Language (ECL)
                                                          *                                                                      1b         B          -           -
                 TR: UP 7830 7949

A2.12.2.14.3.4         Use Console mode (CONS)
                 TR: UP 7830 7949                                                                                                1b         B          -           -



                                                                                      33
                                                                                                                                                Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                                   STS 2R0X1
                                                      2.          3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                               Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                               Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          Core           A           B             C          D           E          A        B            C
                                                      Tasks                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                               Level     Level
                                                                    Tng          Tng         Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                    Start      Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC
                                                      5       7
A2.12.2.14.3.5        Use Universal Data Systems
                      Monitor (UDSMON)                                                                                           -         B          -           -

A2.12.2.15.   IMDS Reports

A2.12.2.15.1. Process on-line inquiries
                                                          *                                                                     2b         B          -           -
A2.12.2.15.2. Process background reports
                                                          *                                                                     2b         B          -           -
A2.12.2.15.3. Generated Runstreams (GENRUN)
              TR: AFCSM 21-571, vol 2

A2.12.2.15.3.1.       Build a GENRUN routine
                                                          *                                                                     2b         B          -           -
A2.12.2.15.3.2.       Run a GENRUN routine
                                                          *                                                                     2b         B          -           -
A2.12.2.15.3.3.       Maintain a GENRUN file
                                                          *                                                                     2b         B          -           -
A2.12.3.      G081 System
              TR: Applicable MAJCOM manuals

A2.12.3.1.    Login to IMSA and IMSB
                                                          *                                                                     2b         B          -           -
A2.12.3.2.    G081 database structure
                                                          *                                                                      -         B          -           -
A2.12.3.3.    G081 database layout
                                                          *                                                                      -         B          -           -
A2.12.3.4.    Subsystem familiarization
                                                                                                                                 A         B          -           -
A2.12.3.5.    Use MDD programs
                                                          *                                                                     2b         B          -           -
A2.12.3.6.    G081 Management

A2.12.3.6.1. Submit and evaluate deficiency reports
             (529s)                                                                                                              A         B          -           -

A2.12.3.6.2. Coordinate system deficiency reports
                                                                                                                                 -         -          -           -
A2.12.3.6.3. Coordination (downtime, special
             programs)                                                                                                           -         -          -           -

A2.12.3.6.4. Schedule deadline jobs (9029a)
                                                                                                                                2b         B          -           -
                                                          *
A2.12.3.6.5. Printer location control (9072)
                                                                                                                                 -         -          -           -
A2.12.3.7.    G081 Security

A2.12.3.7.1. Maintain User-Id security
             (9057/9057c)                                 *                                                                     2b         B          -           -

A2.12.3.7.2. Maintain program access security
                                                          *                                                                     2b         B          -           -
A2.12.3.7.3  System Authorization Access Request
                                                                                                                                 -         A          -           -
             (SAAR) DD Form 2875
A2.12.3.7.4. User Management and 9046 screen
                                                                                                                                 -         B          -           -
A2.12.3.8.    FOCUS

A2.12.3.8.1. Execute FOCUS retrievals
                                                          *                                                                      a         B          -           -
A2.12.3.8.2. Modify FOCUS retrievals
                                                          *                                                                      a         B          -           -


                                                                                     34
                                                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                                   STS 2R0X1
                                                      2.          3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                               Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                               Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          Core           A           B             C          D           E          A        B            C
                                                      Tasks                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                               Level     Level
                                                                    Tng          Tng         Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                    Start      Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC
                                                      5       7
A2.12.3.8.3. Copy FOCUS retrievals
                                                          *                                                                      a         B          -           -
A2.12.3.9.    G081 Time Sharing Option (TSO)
              Utilities

A2.12.3.9.1. Log on
                                                                                                                                 -         B          -           -
A2.12.3.9.2. Security and administration functions
                                                                                                                                 -         B          -           -
A2.12.3.9.3. VTAM printing system
                                                                                                                                 -         B          -           -
A2.12.3.9.4. Use flasher spool display
                                                                                                                                 -         -          -           -
A2.12.4.      Reliability and Maintainability
              Information System (REMIS)
              TR: AFCSM 25-524 vol. 1 – 8

A2.12.4.1.    Product Performance Subsystem (PPS)
                                                                                                                                 -         -          -          A
A2.12.4.2.    Equipment Inventory Multiple Status
              Utilization Reporting Subsystem
                                                                                                                                 -         -          -          A
              (EIMSURS)

A2.12.4.3.    Generic Configuration Status
              Accounting System (GCSAS)                                                                                          -         -          -          A

A2.12.4.4.    Process reports
                                                                                                                                 -         -          -          A
A2.12.5.      Global Combat Support System – Air
              Force Data Services (GCSS-AFDS)

A2.12.5.1.    Purpose and use
                                                                                                                                 A         B          -           -
A2.12.5.2.    Create/save reports
                                                          *                                                                      -         B          -           -
A2.12.5.3.    Execute/share reports
                                                          *                                                                      -         B          -           -
A2.12.6.      Data File Manipulation
              TR: Application User Manuals

A2.12.6.1.    Purpose and description
                                                                                                                                 A         -          -          B
A2.12.6.2.    Convert Print Files to Data Files
                                                                                                                                2b         -          -          B
A2.12.6.3.    Use of File Delimiters
                                                                                                                                2b         -          -          B
A2.12.6.4.    Use of Filters
                                                                                                                                2b         -          -          B
A2.12.6.5.    Create Reports
                                                                                                                                 -         -          -           -
A2.12.7.      Enterprise Applications

A2.12.7.1.    Logistics, Installations, and Mission
              Support – Enterprise View (LIMS-
                                                                                                                                 A         B          -          B
              EV) Aircraft Maintenance View

A2.12.7.2.    Global Decision Support System
              (GDSS-2)                                                                                                           -         A          -          B

A2.12.7.3.    AMC Global Reach situational
                                                                                                                                 -         A          -           -
              awareness report


                                                                                     35
                                                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                                  STS 2R0X1
                                                     2.          3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                              Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References         Core           A           B             C          D           E          A        B            C
                                                     Tasks                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                              Level     Level
                                                                   Tng          Tng         Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                   Start      Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC
                                                     5       7
A2.13.       Maintenance Operations Flight
             Management and Superintendent/Flight
             Chief Responsibilities
             TR: AFI 21-101, 103, 116, TO 00-20-2,
             and MAJCOM Directives
A2.13.1.     Maintenance management principles
                                                                                                                                -         -          -          B
A2.13.2.     Preventive vs. corrective maintenance
                                                                                                                                -         -          -          B
A2.13.3.     Weapons system forms management
                                                                                                                                -         -          -          B
A2.13.4.     Technical Order (TO) management
                                                                                                                                -         -          -          B
A2.13.5.     Maintenance Operations Center
             (MOC) TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-103,
                                                                                                                                -         A          -          B
             AFI 21-116, and MAJCOM Directives

A2.13.6.     Engine Management TR: AFI 21-101;
             TO 00-25-254-1; TO 00-20-5-1-1,
                                                                                                                                -         -          -          B
             AFMAN 23-110

A2.13.7.     Maintenance Supply Liaison
             TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110                                                                                       -         -          -          B

A2.13.8      Cyber/Space/Communication Complex
                                                                                                                                -         B          -           -
             TR: T.O. 0033A-1001
A2.13.9      Maintenance Production Management
             (PS&D) TR: AFI 21-101, MAJCOM
             Directives, AFI 21-103, and                                                                                        -         -          -          B
             AFI 21-116




                                                                                    36
                                                                                                                                              Attachment 2
