DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                     CFETP 32EX
Headquarters US Air Force                                                          Parts I, II
Washington DC 20330-5000                                                    01 December 2010




                                   AFSC 32EX
                     Civil Engineer Officer




                                       MASTER




     BASIC                                                               SENIOR



                         CAREER FIELD
                  EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN



ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN (CFETP)
                           CIVIL ENGINEERING OFFICER
                                    AFSC 32EX

                                                         Table of Contents

Part I

  Preface ..............................................................................................................................3
  Terms and Abbreviations ...............................................................................................4

  Section A - General Information .....................................................................................5
    Purpose of the CFETP
    Uses of the CFETP
    Coordination and Approval of the CFETP
    Career Field Manager (CFM)

  Section B - Career Field Progression and Information ...............................................6
    Specialty Description
    Career Development
    Civil Engineer Occupational Badges
    Air Force Personnel Center – CE Officer Assignments

  Section C - Proficiency Training Requirements ...........................................................21

  Section D - Resource Constraints .................................................................................23

Part II

  Section A – Course Training Standard .........................................................................23

  Section B – Training Course Index ...............................................................................29

  Section C – Support Material ........................................................................................31

  Section D – MAJCOM Unique Requirements..............................................................31

  Section E - Other Professional Training and Education .............................................31

  Section D – Leadership and Supervision ......................................................................34



OPR: HQ AFCESA/CEOO
Certified by: HQ AFCESA/CEOO (Col Leslie C. Martin)
Supersedes: CFETP32EXPT1-3, 1 Nov 05
Pages: 38

                                                                       2
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                            CFETP 32EX
Headquarters US Air Force                                 Parts I, II
Washington DC 20330-5000                           01 December 2010




              THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
Part I

Preface

1. Air Force Civil Engineers are airmen first and engineers always. In this manner, the Civil
Engineer (CE) officer is required to meet and support Air Force and the joint and coalition war-
fighters’ needs during peace and war. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP)
identifies desired training, education, professional development, and experience for CE officers.
The CFETP provides a description of time-phased education, professional development, and
training recommended for CE officers for successful careers.

2. This CFETP consists of three parts that should be used by officers, commanders, and
supervisors to plan and manage all education and training needs, and guide the officer through a
recommended path of experience.

   Part I describes overall management and career development opportunities. Section A
   explains what the CFETP is and how it should be used. Section B contains specialty
   description and career development information relevant to the civil engineer career field.

   Part II shows options available to meet an officer’s education and training needs. Section A
   shows typical flight tasks performed at base level and higher for those flights where most
   officers will work throughout their careers. Section B shows numerous training and education
   courses available to assist with development in the civil engineer career field. Section C is not
   used. Section D MAJCOM Unique Requirements is not used. Section E discusses other
   training opportunities, such as continuing education, professional military education, and
   other professional development opportunities. Section F describes the role of leadership and
   supervision. This section includes information on supervising officers, enlisted members and
   civilians, the feedback process, as well as awards and decorations.

3. The CFETP is a dynamic tool and does not include every available course relevant to the
civil engineer career field. Each duty location will provide unique opportunities for career
enhancement, and those opportunities should be fully exploited. This CFETP does not, however,
apply in its entirety to the Air Reserve Component (ARC). Although it is highly encouraged for
Reserve and ANG officers to follow this CFETP to the maximum extent possible, career
progression (PCS and assignment changes) will be different for ARC members, as well as other
organization and training issues presented in this CFETP.

4. For additional information on officer professional development, access the Officer Career Path
Guide (OPDG) on the AFPC web site at http://www.afpc.randolph.af.mil or download Air Force
Instruction (AFI) 36-2611, Officer Professional Development (OPD), from the publications web
site at the Air Force e-Publishing website. The OPD and OPDG take precedence in instances
where their information differs from this CFETP.




                                                 4
5. Your suggestions to improve this CFETP are welcome and encouraged. Please send
recommended changes to the CE Officer Career Field Manager (CFM) at HQ AFCESA/CEO,
139 Barnes Drive Suite 1, Tyndall AFB FL 32403-5319. Suggestions may also be submitted
through the AFCESA homepage (http://www.afcesa.af.mil). Access the Force Development
Division Page and send comments in care of the CE Officer Career Field Manager.

Abbreviation and Terms Explained

Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT). Located at Wright Patterson AFB OH, AFIT is the
Air Force’s institute for professional continuing education (PCE), as well as management of
resident and Civilian Institution (CI) graduate programs.

Air University (AU). Located at Maxwell AFB AL, AU is the Air Force’s resident home for
professional military education (PME) as well as Officer Training School (OTS). In-resident
programs include: Air and Space Basic Course (ASBC), Squadron Officer School (SOS), Air
Command and Staff College (ACSC), and Air War College (AWC).

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A comprehensive, multipurpose
document that covers all education and training requirements for a specific career field. It
provides a logical plan, which identifies career field progression, education and training and
assists in defending training budgets.

Distance Education. Distance education is on the cutting edge of teaching mediums and takes
advantage of delivery methods such as satellite broadcasts, computer based instruction, on-site
courses and seminars to deliver course information. Many AFIT courses are now offered this
way.

Education Logistics and Communications (A4/6). The Air Force Institute for Advanced
Distributed Learning (AFIADL) and the AU/SC, Communications and Information division
combined in 2008 to form the HQ AU A4/6. Located at Gunter AFS AL, A4/6 support formal
training and educational programs of the Air Force, Air National Guard, Air Force Reserve, and
throughout the Department of Defense. The clearing house for all paper-based PME programs as
well as testing materials. These include correspondence and seminar programs for most PME
programs like SOS, ACSC, and AWC.

Education and Training Review Panels (ETRPs). The ETRPs are panels responsible for
reviewing all CE education and training programs (including graduate education) for relevancy
and ability to meet the needs of the career field. The ETRPs consists of four separate panels,
including: Engineering; Environmental; Academic Degree; and Training.

Education and Training Program Board (ETRB). The ETRB is the civil engineer corporate
body, chaired by AF/A7C, responsible for reviewing all recommendations of the ETRPs and
approving the best course of action for meeting all education and training needs of the career
field. The ETRB meets annually, following conclusion of the ETRPs, to approve the next fiscal
year’s program.

                                                 5
Section A - General Information.

“It is essential that you develop your career game plan and realize that it’s yours and your
responsibility to keep current. Ask advice from others as you develop it and then let your bosses
know what your aspirations are so that they can help you attain your career objectives.”
MGen Clifton D. Wright, former Director of Engineering and Services, HQ USAF

“It is my duty and obligation to foster an environment that promotes both professional and
personal development. An atmosphere that allows all members of Air Force Civil Engineering
an opportunity to reach their highest potential in serving the Air Force.”
MGen Timothy A. Byers, The Air Force Civil Engineer, HQ USAF

1. Purpose of the Career Field Education Training Plan (CFETP). This CFETP provides
information for the civil engineer occupational series, 32EX. This plan outlines mandatory and
recommended training, education, and experience to chart and execute a career in the civil
engineer business. The CFETP also provides officers, supervisors, and commanders a means to
jointly plan and program training and education opportunities, as well as discuss current and
future career opportunities. This plan also:

   1.1. Identifies professional and military training and education opportunities and recommends
   the appropriate points/positions in an individual's career to obtain the training and education.

   1.2. Identifies training and education sources and delivery method(s).

   1.3. Provides information about supervisory, senior management, and leadership training and
   development.


2. Use of the CFETP. This plan is to be used by officers, supervisors, and commanders. It may
also used by Major Command (MAJCOM) Functional Managers (MFMs) to ensure
comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the Air Force
Specialty (AFS). The career progression guidelines outlined in this plan apply to the total force,
including Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard officers.

   2.1. Each officer should use this plan to work with supervisors, commanders, and mentors to
   determine appropriate levels and timing of education, professional development, and training,
   and ensure they have every opportunity to attend identified courses, attain leadership
   opportunity, pursue professional certification, and complete professional development. Every
   officer should take the initiative to determine realistic milestones for achieving their goals.
   Completion of education, training, and experience is a joint responsibility between the officer,
   their supervisor, and commander.

   2.2. MAJCOM training personnel and Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) education
   personnel develop/revise formal resident, non-resident, field, and exportable training based
   partially on this plan.

                                                 6
   2.3. MFMs ensure their training programs complement the Air Force-level training listed in
   this CFETP. Identified requirements may be satisfied through a number of avenues including:
   job experience, resident training, contract training, exportable courses, or distance learning.
   MAJCOMs and units may supplement this plan with additional training and professional
   development requirements at any time.

3. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP. HQ AFCESA is the coordinating agency for
this document. Approval authority is the Air Force Civil Engineer, HQ USAF/A7C. MAJCOM
representatives, AETC training personnel, AFIT faculty, HQ AFCEE, and HQ AFCESA training
personnel identify and coordinate on career field training requirements. HQ AFCESA/CEO will
review this document annually to ensure currency.

4. Career Field Manager (CFM). The CFM for the 32EX career field is the Director,
Operations and Programs Support Division, Headquarters Air Force Civil Engineer Support
Agency. You can contact the CFM at the address below. The phone numbers are DSN 523-
6370, commercial (850) 283-6370, or toll free 1 (888) AFCESA1, ext. 283-6370.

Section B – Career Field Progression and Information.

5. The Air Force Officer Classification Directory (AFOCD) describes the 32EX civil engineer
officer Air Force Specialty (AFS). It is the guiding document for all Air Force officer
classification issues and takes precedence over this CFETP for any classification issues. HQ
AFPC/DPSIDC is the OPR for the AFOCD as well as all classification issues. The following
excerpt reflects the most current information for the civil engineer career field. It has been
republished here for your reference and information. One point of note is on shredouts -- these
are nothing more than character identifiers for certain specialty qualifications required for
particular positions within an organization.

   5.1. AFSC 32E1, Entry
   5.2. AFSC 32E3, Qualified
   5.3. AFSC 32E4, Staff

6. Specialty Description for Civil Engineer Utilization Field (32EX). The Civil Engineer
(CE) Career Area provides installation and expeditionary engineering support for deployed Air
Force and joint units and weapons systems, emergency repair of war damage to air bases, base
denial activities, and other related combat support functions; develops, monitors, and briefs
survivability actions and methods to recover capabilities after attack; organizes, trains, and
equips contingency forces for nuclear, biological, chemical, and conventional attack operations
and other emergency situations; provide a full range of engineering support required to establish,
operate, and maintain garrison and contingency airbases; and performs contingency construction
in austere locations. The career field also encompasses activities relating to acquisition,
maintenance, asset management, operation, and disposal of real property facilities, and includes
planning, program formulation and execution, policy development, inspection, command, and
direction of CE activities. Included are supervisory, operational, and engineering responsibilities
for construction, maintenance, and repair of Air Force and joint base real property; operation of

                                                 7
utility systems; fire prevention, protection, and aircraft crash rescue; readiness and emergency
management; explosive ordnance disposal. Functions involving planning and programming for
maintenance, repair, and construction requirements; design and preparing plans and
specifications for contracts, contract inspection, budgetary development and planning;
establishing standards, requirements, and funds management for personnel, supplies, and
equipment; environmental protection and base procedures for construction and maintenance of
environmental improvements; planning, budgeting, construction, maintenance, and management
of military family housing; acquisition, utilization, and disposal of real estate under Air Force
jurisdiction; and training and use of CE professional and technical personnel.

   6.1. Specialty Summary. Develops and implements civil engineer (CE) force employment,
   and provides staff supervision and technical advice. Performs and manages CE functions and
   activities to provide facilities and infrastructure supporting the United States and allies.
   Activities include programming, budgeting, project management, drafting, surveying,
   planning, feasibility studies, construction management, utilities operations, energy and
   environmental programs, land management, real property accounting, fire protection,
   explosive ordnance disposal (EOD), readiness and emergency management programs, family
   housing and dorm management, and mobilization programs at base level. Serves on response
   teams and related installation support services. Advises commanders and government
   officials on effective use of CE resources. Related DoD Occupational Group: 240100.

   6.2. Duties and Responsibilities:

      6.2.1. Supports combat operations and activities. Maintains trained and equipped forces
      capable of responding to worldwide contingencies and military operations other than war.
      Evaluates capabilities and develops contingency methodologies to accomplish mission
      objectives. Maintains emergency response force to cope with enemy attacks, major
      accidents, and natural disasters. Plans, develops, and executes procedures to mitigate the
      effects, render safe, and dispose of conventional, nuclear, chemical, and biological
      ordnance and improvised explosive devices. Provides Emergency Operations Center
      expertise regarding control and integration of emergency response force. Develops,
      monitors, and briefs survivability actions and methods to recover capabilities after attack.
      Organizes, trains, and equips contingency forces for conventional and nuclear, biological,
      and chemical attack operations, and other emergency situations. Acts as Weapons
      Recovery Center director as a member of the Response Task Force for nuclear accidents.

      6.2.2. Determines requirements, establishes plans, provides designs, and directs operations,
      maintenance, repair, alteration, addition, and construction of facilities and utility systems.
      Determines personnel and material resource requirements. Plans and establishes land use,
      and provides environmental stewardship. Directs CE forces in support of customers'
      requirements, and coordinates activities with subordinate and lateral units and functions.
      Determines proper use of facilities and effective employment of utility systems. Acts as
      technical representative and engineering consultant for operations and maintenance
      activities. Coordinates activities with local, state, federal, and host country agencies.




                                                 8
     6.2.3. Develops CE plans and policies. Evaluates impact of legislative action, executive
     orders, directives, and management decisions. Consults with manpower, organization, and
     personnel staffs to ensure appropriate use of CE personnel. Coordinates with staff
     agencies on fiscal and legal matters. Directs training, business practices, and professional
     development activities. Serves as CE advisor to commanders. Implements standardization
     and evaluation, and monitors compliance of programs and policies. Directs and conducts
     engineering research and feasibility studies and surveys.


7. Career Development. Additional career development information may be obtained from the
AFPC Web site at: http://www.afpc.randolph.af.mil. The information contained in this
document is considered supplemental information to that managed by AFPC. The following
describes career progression within the civil engineer career field. Career development is a
function of experience, knowledge, and time. Career development requires a systems approach
and includes duty assignments, developmental assignments, and professional development. The
following sections discuss career development components and Figure 6.1(see page 20), the CE
Career Development Pyramid, integrates the components into one sight picture. Also an
example Career Planning Tool (excel spreadsheet) can be obtained from AFCESA’s CFM office
or AFPC or at the CE Operations Support Community of Practice Website. Additional
discussion and details are described in Part II of this document.

  7.1. Introduction to Officer Progression. CE officers are part of the support officer
  structure. Career paths in this arena will help you to plan and achieve career goals. There are
  no definitive, concrete steps that need to be attained to reach rank or position; however,
  certain jobs or experiences, training and PME will help you in achieving your goals. It’s
  important to remember: "the most important job to your professional development is the one
  you hold today.”

  7.2. Civil Engineer Career Path. The first step in charting any career plan is to define your
  personal and professional goals, both long and short term. History has shown that one key to
  success is defining clear goals, both personal and professional. Future civil engineer leaders
  will be those who achieve depth and breadth through job experience, education and training,
  and professional development. A solid foundation in these areas will pay high dividends in
  your future. Failure to build your foundation at the appropriate time may, in effect, close
  certain doors for advancement later in your career. In other words, your development as a
  future Air Force leader begins now. The AF first and foremost needs leaders, and all CE
  officers should put themselves on a course to eventually compete for a SQ/CC job, MSG/CC,
  and MAJCOM Civil Engineer.

     7.2.1. Initial Assignment(s). When initially assigned as a civil engineer, you are expected
     to build depth through technical experiences with increasing complexity, span of control,
     and responsibility. Your first assignment(s) are where you should focus on polishing your
     technical expertise, either in programming or construction projects in engineering,
     managing programs, leading the Readiness and Emergency Management flight, and in
     general developing your leadership skills. As a result of past Air Force restructuring
     efforts, civil engineer squadrons were reorganized into seven flights. Currently, officers

                                               9
may expect to perform in any of the seven flights described below (except perhaps the Fire
and Emergency Services Flight) if assigned to a base level squadron, or in one of several
Rapid Engineer Deployable Heavy Operational Repair Squadron Engineers (RED
HORSE) squadrons around the world.

  7.2.1.1. The Programs flight provides cradle-to-grave responsibility for operations and
  maintenance projects by contract, Simplified Acquisition of Base Engineer
  Requirements (SABER) projects, oversight of Military Construction Projects
  (MILCON), infrastructure planning, and GeoBase program management. Lieutenants
  or young Captains will normally work in this flight as project programmers/project
  managers with limited supervisory responsibilities. Some opportunities may exist for
  senior Captains or Majors as Flight Commander, or perhaps the Project Management
  element (CEPM) chief or the Program Development element (CEPD) chief, depending
  on local circumstances. Officers in this flight perform all base comprehensive planning,
  project programming, technical design, and construction surveillance for projects to
  maintain, restore, and upgrade base facilities and infrastructure systems. Part II, Section
  A, shows typical tasks associated with this flight.

  7.2.1.2. The Asset Management flight is responsible for assisting the installation
  commander to manage both built and natural assets through application of optimization
  tools and AF-wide processes. In addition, as part of the 2008 Civil Engineer Squadron
  reorganization and focus on asset management principles, this flight is responsible for
  providing the initial hub for ensuring new asset management guidance and processes are
  employed in the squadron. The flight combines the legacy environmental, housing, real
  property, and community planning functions with other new responsibilities into three
  elements: Natural Resource Management (Environmental), Asset Optimization
  (Activity Management/Real Property), and Capital Asset Management
  (Housing/Dorms/Furnishings). The AF has established a goal to reduce our physical
  plant 20% by the year 2020 in order to offset the 20% reduction in funds available for
  installation support activities. The Asset Management flight leads the AF/A7C
  chartered M-6 Integrated Process Team (IPT) to develop methods to better identify how
  interior facility space is used, and identify opportunities for consolidation and
  demolition to achieve the 20/20 by 2020 goal. You can normally expect to work in this
  flight as a Lieutenant or young Captain as a program manager with some supervisory
  responsibilities. Part II, Section A, shows typical tasks associated with this flight.

  7.2.1.3. The Readiness and Emergency Management flight is the focal point for all
  contingency support and prepares the wing for operations during natural disasters,
  major accidents, war, and other base emergencies. Officers in this flight provide
  planning, program management, and training for integrated wing readiness plans, wing
  disaster preparedness plans, civil engineer readiness, and the Air Force Incident
  Management System (AFIMS). Lieutenants or young Captains will normally be
  assigned as the Readiness and Emergency Management Flight Commander. In this
  capacity, you can expect supervisory responsibility including management of the local
  Prime BEEF program and direct responsibility for subordinates (enlisted and civilian) to
  include evaluations, development and disciplinary actions, and a direct relationship to

                                         10
the other senior squadron staff as a Flight/CC. You may also expect to fulfill the role of
EOC Manager depending on expertise/manning at your base. Part II, Section A, shows
typical tasks performed in this flight.

7.2.1.4. The Operations flight operates, maintains, repairs, and constructs installation
real property with an in-house military and civilian work force, as well as manages
recurring service contracts. The operations flight provides the squadron's core
capability and recovery or sustainability of bases for the projection of air and space
power. Included under the operations flight is the Operations Support Element.
Normally, Majors are assigned as the Operations Flight Commander and Captains could
be assigned as the Chief of Operations Support. Both positions require supervisory
responsibility. Part II, Section A, shows typical tasks associated with this flight.

7.2.1.5. The Resources flight is responsible for the development, preparation, submittal,
and maintenance of the financial plan, budget estimates, and the CE financial
management system. This flight also serves as the CE Squadron CC’s focal point on all
issues relating to manpower and personnel; and Automated Civil Engineer System
(ACES). A few overseas squadrons have officers authorized as Flight Commanders,
and officers assigned here will develop the resource management skills necessary for
their use in future leadership positions. Part II, Section A, shows typical tasks
performed in this flight.

7.2.1.6. The Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) flight provides the capability for the
detection, identification, field evaluation, rendering-safe, recovery, and final disposal of
conventional, nuclear, chemical, and biological unexploded ordnance (UXO), foreign
and domestic. Flights are involved in range clearance operations, aircraft emergencies,
and worldwide contingency support. This flight is involved in planning, implementing,
and executing Force Protection (FP) measures to protect against the effects of any
explosive item encountered. Provides support to US Secret Service and Department of
State to include protection of Very Important Persons (VIPs). This flight provides
assistance to local, state, and federal agencies in situations involving military explosives
and situations beyond the capabilities of those agencies. Personnel assigned to this
flight also conduct base populace training on ordnance recognition, hazards, and
precautions. Those officers selected for EOD positions must attend specialized training
before assuming these duties. Officers assigned to the EOD Flight will serve as the
EOD Flight Commander. Part II, Section A, shows typical tasks performed in this
flight.

7.2.1.7. The Fire and Emergency Services flight is also part of the civil engineer
squadron, but officers are not typically assigned to this flight.

7.2.1.8. Prime BEEF is the wartime component of the standard Civil Engineer unit.
All Prime BEEF forces are combat support forces that are generally configured as
squadrons and teams. Their mission is to provide combat support to the air combat
forces which are, or may become, a part of a theater, command, or task force formed for
combat operations. These civil-engineering base units are organic at essentially all

                                        11
   major CONUS and overseas Air Force bases in order to provide peacetime real-property
   maintenance capability. This capability is totally integrated into the peacetime force
   structure and provides the operational commander with the flexibility of employing
   weapons systems without depending on others. Most standard base-level Civil
   Engineer jobs are also Prime BEEF positions.

   7.2.1.9. RED HORSE squadrons offer excellent experience for developing leadership
   skills and technical expertise in both design and construction. These squadrons provide
   the Air Force with a highly mobile civil engineering response force to support
   contingency and special operations around the world. They are self-sufficient, 404
   person mobile squadrons capable of rapid response and independent operations in
   remote, high-threat environments worldwide. They provide heavy repair capability and
   construction support when requirements exceed normal base civil engineer capabilities.
   They possess weapons, vehicle/equipment and vehicle maintenance, food service,
   supply and medical equipment capabilities as well as engineering, operations and
   logistics support capabilities. Their major wartime responsibilities are to provide a
   highly mobile, rapidly deployable, civil engineering response force that is self-sufficient
   to perform heavy damage repair required for recovery of critical Air Force facilities and
   utility systems, and aircraft launch and recovery. In addition, they accomplish engineer
   support for beddown of weapons systems required to initiate and sustain operations in
   an austere bare base environment, including remote hostile locations. RED HORSE
   units participate regularly in Joint Chiefs of Staff and MAJCOM exercises, military
   operations other than war, and humanitarian civic action programs. Finally, they also
   perform troop-training projects, which assist base construction efforts while at the same
   time honing their wartime skills. Officers who desire to apply for RED HORSE
   positions should contact AFPC/DPASB for more information on the application
   process.

7.2.2. Job Experience. Job experience includes building depth through technical expertise
early in your career, like design engineer or project/program manager, progressing to jobs
that provide breadth of experience and supervisory opportunities, like element chief
positions, and then progressing to other leadership positions such as flight commander.
Figure 7.1(see page 20) identifies various levels of experience and windows of opportunity
to help build your depth and breadth. Although certainly not all-inclusive, it’s intended to
show that a balance of base level and staff experience, coupled with deployment
experience and opportunities for career broadening, will build a strong foundation for civil
engineer officers.

   7.2.2.1. Squadron Level. During the initial part of your career, you will be building
   the foundation you’ll need throughout your career. To experience these opportunities in
   sufficient breadth and depth, a minimum of two, and sometimes three, permanent
   change of station (PCS) moves are normally required. Breadth and depth is also gained
   by leading a larger or different flight or element. When contemplating such a move,
   keep the following in mind:




                                          12
   7.2.2.1.1. A balanced approach to job experience--if you spent the past several years
   assigned to a programs flight, then seek opportunities in another part of the
   organization.
   7.2.2.1.2. An overseas tour--approximately 24 percent of civil engineer billets
   worldwide are overseas. Short tour overseas assignments offer prime opportunities
   to quickly fill gaps in your professional development and to hone skills in a typically
   austere environment. Officers can expect to do at least one short tour and one long
   tour in a 20-year career (not including deployments).

   7.2.2.1.3. Experience in several different major commands will give you a broader
   view of the total Air Force mission and a deeper understanding of how all the
   "pieces" fit together.

   7.2.2.1.4. Deployments are a large part of the Civil Engineer life and offer a great
   deal of experience in a compressed time period. Currently Civil Engineer officers
   can expect to deploy one to three times in a single base level assignment (depending
   on the time spent at the assignment).

7.2.2.2. Headquarters Staff. After spending time at squadron level, staff billets
provide an opportunity to develop both the "big picture" view of the mission and a
chance to hone your decision-making skills. Increased job responsibility is key in
developing areas of expertise that will enhance your leadership skills. Staff positions in
the CE career field include, but are not limited to Air Staff, MAJCOM, AFCESA,
AFCEE, or Numbered Air Forces.

7.2.2.3. Joint Experience. Progression to the rank of General officer requires joint
assignment credit and designation as a joint qualified officer. DoD Instruction 1300.19
(Change 1, 21 Aug 08) requires active duty military officers to complete a full joint
duty assignment (36 months) or requisite experience to receive their Joint Officer
Qualification (JOQ) designation before they can be promoted to the rank of General
officer. Currently this instruction affords certain scientific and technical career fields,
to include the 32E career field, the ability to request a waiver to the Joint Qualification
System (JQS) requirements. However, there is concern that support for this waiver will
not continue indefinitely. Consequently, the 32E senior leadership is invigorating the
push to ensure our officers are pursuing JOQ designation through JDAL billets (Joint
Duty Assignment List—a consolidated list of Joint Duty Assignments approved for
joint credit) and/or the JOQ self-nomination experience path to JOQ designation. As
was demonstrated in Operations Iraqi Freedom and Enduring Freedom, the future of
military operations will rely heavily on a clear understanding of joint operations. The
JQS Self Nomination website can be found at:
https://www.dmdc.osd.mil/appj/jmis/JQSLoginMain.do.

7.2.2.4. Developmental Assignments. There are limited staff positions you can choose
outside the civil engineer career field for career broadening. Typical opportunities
include AFIT, ROTC, Basic Military Training, OTS, SOS, Recruiting Service, and the
Air Force Academy. Additional career broadening opportunities may be found in AFI

                                       13
   36-2611, Chapter 9. Although each person’s career is unique, many civil engineers
   have branched outside the “traditional” civil engineer path and gone on to successful
   careers as senior leaders. Career broadening assignments are increasingly important to
   officer professional development. Many of these are great opportunities to expand your
   “big picture” view of the Air Force. These “career broadening” opportunities should
   not be viewed as detrimental, but rather beneficial to the whole AF officer concept. AF
   senior leaders view these opportunities as valuable development steps and if selected,
   AFPC can help identify civil engineer senior Leaders who have had similar career
   experiences and are available for advice and mentoring to help glean the most positive
   experience possible.

   7.2.2.5. Leadership Opportunities: Opportunity for leadership exists throughout your
   career, whether as the OIC of a deployed force, operations flight commander,
   operations support element chief, squadron commander, etc. Success in a tough
   leadership role demonstrates attributes desired for command at increasingly higher
   levels. Again, the foundation you build early in your career prepares you well for any
   leadership role. Don’t turn down an opportunity to show you’re ready for increased
   responsibility and leadership.

7.2.3. Professional Development. Professional development continues throughout your
career and consists of developmental education, graduate education, professional
continuing education, professional engineering or architecture registration or licensure, and
other facility engineering credentials, to include certifications such as LEED-AP, Certified
Facility Manager (CFM), Certified Energy Manager (CEM), and Project Management
Professional (PMP), to name a few.

   7.2.3.1. Developmental Education. Developmental Education (DE) is vital to
   professional development. DE categorized into Basic, Intermediate, and Senior
   Developmental Education or BDE, IDE, and SDE, respectively, and is sometimes
   referred to as Professional Military Education (PME). Lieutenants will have the
   opportunity to attend Air and Space Basic Course (ASBC). Captains will complete
   Squadron Office School (SOS). Majors will complete IDE through an Intermediate
   Service School (e.g. Air Command and Staff College (ACSC)). Lt Colonels will
   complete SDE through a Senior Service School (e.g. Air War College (AWC)).
   Officers who complete Developmental Education by correspondence prior to meeting
   the selection process for in-residence DE will be more competitive.

   7.2.3.2. Graduate Education. An appropriate graduate degree early in your career will
   enhance your job performance and your value to the Air Force. AFIT offers qualified
   officers opportunities to pursue Air Force sponsored advanced degrees in many
   different disciplines. Also, your local base education center offers opportunities for
   advanced degrees through a variety of off-duty education programs using Air Force
   tuition assistance programs. In order to be competitive for promotion, an advanced
   degree should be high on your list of career priorities. Officers may also pursue
   doctorate level degrees; however, there are a very limited number of positions available



                                          14
requiring these degrees, other than as faculty members at AFIT or the Air Force
Academy.

7.2.3.3. Professional Continuing Education (PCE). PCE also enhances your
technical and managerial skills by keeping you current in your job. PCE courses can be
obtained through Air Force resident courses (AFIT courses), colleges or universities, or
commercial training organizations. The Society of American Military Engineers
(SAME) has local posts near most AF installations and can help with PCE. SAME
offers access to other professional engineers, both military and civilian, who can offer
advice and assistance with PCE. SAME also has academic avenues to help with
professional licensing as well as offering venues to earn the required continuing
education credits to maintain professional licensing. AF/A7CX and AFCESA/CEO
manage the PCE program for civil engineering. Work with your unit education and
training manager for details on PCE courses.

7.2.3.4. Professional Registration. Professional registration (or licensure) is a
significant step in the professional growth of civil engineer officers. Individual CE
officers may choose to pursue professional registration at their own expense. Although
it is not mandatory for civil engineer officers to become registered, it is a credential that
enhances the CE officer’s overall professional development and is highly encouraged.
There are numerous agencies and professional societies that have professional
registration materials, including videotape courses and study manuals. Many are now
accessible via the internet, such as the American Society of Civil Engineers at
www.asce.org; the American Society of Mechanical Engineers at www.asme.org; or the
National Society of Professional Engineers at www.nspe.org to name a few. Many
MAJCOMs also have excellent videotape programs for their engineers and architects.
Check with your local or MAJCOM training manager for further information.
Normally, four years of professional work experience and successful completion of the
Fundamentals of Engineering exam are required prior to taking the PE exam.
Registration for architects is governed by the National Council of Architectural
Registration Board (NCARB), and requirements vary state to state. The requirements
for architectural registration may be found at www.ncarb.org. CE officers can add a
“special experience identifier” to their record after successful registration or licensure;
check with the Military Personnel Flight for details. For those officers interested in
pursuing professional registration, there may be opportunities for financial assistance.
For example, the local Society of American Military Engineers (SAME) post may offer
financial assistance for PE study courses and/or materials. See Fig 6.1 (page 20) for
several different professional registration options, in addition to the PE/RA, after
pinning-on Captain. These professional registration options include, but are not limited
to, Certified Project Manager (CPM), Certified Facility Manager (CFM), LEED AP
certification, etc. These professional registration options (in addition to PE/RA)
enhance professional development, and are options recommended after pinning-on
Captain (while FE/EIT is recommended at the 2Lt / 1Lt grades). Most of the above
mentioned professional registrations require continued education to maintain your
registration. As mentioned above, local SAME posts and AFIT can help fulfill many of
these continuing education requirements.

                                        15
7.2.3.5. Contingency Experience. Contingency operations provide officers a unique
opportunity to sharpen their technical and leadership skills. Officers should continually
seek out opportunities to participate and lead contingency operations; contingency
engineering (WMGT 585) is required for officers with 8-12 yrs of commissioned
service, and is required prior to being eligible for the CE master badge. In addition,
Joint Expeditionary Tasking (JET) have become more common for Air Force CE
officers; officers should seek valuable training for operating in the joint engineer
environment, notably the Joint Engineer Operations Course (JEOC), WMGT 590.

   7.2.3.5.1. Training Required Prior to Deployment. As a civil engineer officer,
   you are required to complete your accession training to include the Air University
   Air and Space Basic Course, and attend WMGT 101, Introduction to the Base Civil
   Engineer Organization, as the minimum training requirements prior to being eligible
   for deployment. Expanding the WMGT 101 curriculum to include more facility
   design and project programming education was undertaken in 2009, in response to
   feedback from deployed officers.

   7.2.3.5.2. Silver Flag Plus AOR Specific Training. Every civil engineer tasked to
   deploy against an Air Force ULN will be scheduled to attend a special Silver Flag
   class which will include up to four additional training days dedicated to honing skills
   required at their specific deployed location. The intent is to move deplorers directly
   from the training venue to the AOR. The team lead of the deploying element will be
   given the opportunity to select from a “playbook” those specific skills he/she wants
   craftsmen to receive. As examples, this could include expedient welding and
   framing for 3E3X1, additional time on MAAS operations and maintenance for
   3E0X2, an introduction to foreign commercial power distribution for 3E0X1,
   training on the Interim Work Information Management System (IWIMS) for 3E6X1
   or training for contractor quality assurance inspection for any applicable CE AFSC.

   7.2.3.5.3. Pre-Deployment Expeditionary Skills Training. As the AF transitions
   to an Expeditionary Prime BEEF Group (EPBG) CONOPS for the employment of
   CE in both Afghanistan and Iraq, many CE deployers will be required to attend
   Combat Airmen Skills Training (CAST) prior to entering theatre. Combat Skills
   Training (CST) at Army Power Projection Platforms may also be a requirement
   based on line remarks.

7.2.3.6. Personal and Professional Growth. Personal and professional growth
includes a balance between the following areas: family, fitness, professional readings,
communication skills, professional associations, and community involvement. This
balance will shift throughout your career as you routinely reevaluate your goals.

7.2.3.7. Professional Development (PD) Plan. Every officer should sit down with
their Commander and/or supervisor at least annually, during formal feedback sessions,
and discuss (among other things) professional development. There are tools to map out
an officer’s career to include jobs, DE, graduate education, PCE, career broadening,

                                       16
short and long tours, promotion boards, etc. This PD plan may then complement the
officer’s Airman Development Plan (ADP) that should also be updated at least
annually. As a rule of thumb, ADPs should be updated annually as part of formal
feedback sessions, as well as prior to deployment due to the possibility of limited
connectivity in the deployed environment. Each officer should take individual
responsibility for ensuring the appropriate amount of time is devoted to his or her
professional development. Contact AFCESA/CEO for more information regarding a
“career planning tool” to use as a guide if needed.

7.2.3.8. Squadron and Wing PD Opportunities. There are many opportunities in the
Squadron and Wing that officers should take advantage of to further their PD. Young
officers should seek out advice and mentorship with NCOs, SNCOs, senior CGOs, and
civilian supervisors, in addition to the Operations Flight Commander and Squadron CC.
This gives a broad range of perspectives on the Air Force career and PD in general.
Officers should seek out ways to get involved in the Squadron, in addition to their
primary duty. For example, an in-house multi-craft construction program is a great way
for a CGO to get involved in the design and Project Management of a large in-house
construction project; in addition, it offers good preparation prior to deployment. Young
CGOs should also seek to tour the Ops Flight shops, EOD, the Fire Department, and
other Flights within the Squadron. With regards to the Squadron Readiness program,
young officers can get involved in a myriad of activities, from the preparation tasks
leading up to ORIs and UCIs, as well as manning the CE UCC (or Emergency
Operations Center) during exercises. Outside the Squadron, officers should seek out
additional duty opportunities that will enhance their PD, as these opportunities typically
require working with many different organizations in the Wing. Officers should also
consider competing for a brief alpha-tour as a Group or Wing executive officer if the
opportunity presents itself.

7.2.3.9. Civil Engineer Development Team. Effective 20 Feb 2003, as directed by the
Chief of Staff of the Air Force Sight Picture dated 6 Nov 2002, and adopted by
CORONA Fall 2002 members, the Air Force Development Team for 32E was
chartered. This charter gave authorization to the CE Development Team (DT) to
provide the necessary tools and formal guidance to USAF active duty CE officers. In
August each year, the Senior CE DT meets, made up of the Air Force CE and the
MAJCOM CEs, to provide guidance on ADPs, mentoring, accessions, cross-flow,
special duties, career-path issues, etc. FGOs in the CE career field, falling into a
specific timeframe in their career, are vectored to future job opportunities during this
time. In October each year the AFCESA/CEO , the MAJCOM A7Os, AFIT/CE and
USAFA/DFCE meet to provide similar vectoring to CGOs falling into a specific
timeframe in their career. In light of this, it is imperative for each officer to ensure their
ADP is updated on a periodic basis. For more information on the CE DT charter,
contact AFPC/DPASB.

7.2.3.10. CE Strategic Communications / CE Portal. The AF Civil Engineer Portal
provides a link to the latest in Civil Engineer strategic communications, publications
and messages from the Air Force Civil Engineer (CEnterline and Engineer Compass).

                                         17
      Also, the link captures the latest in CE Playbooks, A-files and a host of other key
      resources that provide technical support for the installations, MAJCOMs and Air
      Staff/FOAs. The CE portal may be found at the following website:
      https://cs.eis.af.mil/a7cportal/Pages/default.aspx.

7.3. CE Career Progression. The discussion above is not intended to suggest there is only
one path to follow throughout your career. However, the path to the top normally includes a
strong technical base, staff assignments, and command positions. Beyond that, senior leaders
of our career field will emerge based on the experience and knowledge gained during this
foundational part of their career. The idea behind a successful career is to begin by building
your primary job proficiency through a strong technical foundation. Follow that up by
building depth through increased leadership opportunities. Finally, after building depth you
should focus on building breadth by expanding your possibilities at different levels. Career
progression opportunities discussed must be carefully planned not only considering
professional goals, but personal ones as well (e.g. marriage, kids, special needs, etc.). A
successful career will be focused on performance, not position. Performing well in any and
all positions offered is more important that seeking the ideal position for promotion. Results
in jobs speak more that positions and developing winning teams in all endeavors greatly
benefits individual careers as well the Air Force better. Great leaders create great teams and
great teams will be recognized by senior leaders.




                                             18
Figure 7.1 – CE Career Development




Figure 7.2 – Typical CE Career Path




                                      19
8. CE Occupational Badges. The civil engineer badge reflects a great history and tradition. By
wearing it, you will be recognized by your fellow Airmen as having achieved an expected level
of competence. The multitude of engineers before you established this expectation through
excellent service in both peace and war. Eligibility criteria for award and wear of AF
occupational badges can be found in AFI 36-2903.

  8.1. CE Badge Heraldry. The gear wheel and compass have historically been used to
  represent the engineering profession, in both the military and private sector. The gear
  represents the essence of engineering: applying scientific principles and technology to
  practical ends. To Air Force engineers, the gear symbolizes an element (representing the built
  environment) that meshes with other environments (weapon systems and trained personnel) to
  enable the Air Force to perform its mission. The compass is a precision tool historically used
  by engineers in designing and constructing facilities and equipment. The gear and compass
  together symbolize all the diverse specialties within the Air Force civil engineer career field.
  Finally, the wings help to portray the fundamental linkage between engineering and aviation
  and that the built environment is the foundation supporting the Air Force mission and people.

     8.1.1. Basic Badge. The basic badge is awarded upon successful entry into the career field
     and completion of WMGT 101, Introduction to the Base Civil Engineer Organization.

     8.1.2. Senior Badge. The senior badge adds a star to the top of the badge. This is
     awarded after an officer has served a minimum of seven years in any civil engineer AFS.

     8.1.3. Master Badge. The master badge indicates the final step in the occupational series
     and adds a wreath around the star. It’s awarded to officers who have successfully
     completed a minimum of 15 years in any civil engineer AFS.

  8.2. Other Badges. The EOD occupational badge is authorized to those individuals who
  complete the formal training requirements of the Naval School of Explosive Ordnance
  Disposal (NAVSCOLEOD). The same requirements for award of the senior and master
  badges apply to the EOD badge as well. Award of the basic badge is given after successful
  completion of NAVSCOLEOD. Additionally, the Readiness occupational badge is
  authorized for those individuals who complete the minimum training requirements and
  identifies emergency management professionals and specialists in peace and wartime
  chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear defense. For more information on the wear and
  award of all badges, refer to AFI 36-2903.

9. Air Force Personnel Center, Civil Engineer Officer Assignments (Palace Blueprint). The
career assignment personnel work CE officer assignments at HQ AFPC/DPASB. Officers may
look for assignment opportunities through the electronic bulletin board (EBB) or on the AFPC
home page at https://gum.afpc.randolph.af.mil/cgi-bin/askafpc.cfg/php/enduser/home.php. The
CE assignment officers can be reached at DSN 665-3451/3452.




                                               20
Section C – Proficiency Training Requirements.

10. Specialty Description.

     10.1.1. Knowledge: Knowledge is mandatory of: contingency engineering, contingency
     base operations, emergency management, explosive ordnance disposal (EOD), and
     survivability skills, including force bed-down, expedient damage repair, and recovery after
     attack: methods, sources, and techniques of engineering design, construction, maintenance,
     operation, and repair of facilities and utility systems; resource acquisition and
     management; military facilities programming and planning; engineering asset
     management, environmental stewardship; housing management; management of real
     property; fire prevention, protection, aircraft crash rescue procedures, and Air Force
     Incident Management System (AFIMS) and Incident Command System (ICS); engineering
     research and development; and formulation, coordination, and administration of plans and
     programs.

     10.1.2. Education: The following education is required for entry into AFSCs 32E1X as
     indicated:

        10.1.2.1. 32E1X: Suffixes are listed in Part I paragraph 5.4 and the requirements for the
        award of the suffixes are defined in Paragraph 5.3.2.2 – 5.3.2.6. Undergraduate or
        graduate degree is mandatory in architecture from a school accredited by the National
        Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB); or, undergraduate or graduate degree is
        mandatory in civil, electrical, environmental, construction, architectural, mechanical, or
        industrial engineering from a school whose respective program is accredited by the
        Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET).

        10.1.2.2. 32E1X Waivers: Waivers for other architecture and engineering degrees not
        specified above but from an accredited school require submission of a waiver package
        IAW AFI36-2101. Waivers for architecture degrees from a non-accredited school
        require submission of a waiver package IAW AFI 36-2101 and must demonstrate a path
        to professional registration according to the National Council of Architectural
        Registration Boards (NCARB). Waivers for engineering degrees from a non-accredited
        school require submission of a waiver package IAW AFI 36-2101 and the individual
        must have passed the National Council of Examiners for Engineering and Surveying
        (NCEES) Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) exam or Engineer-in-Training (EIT) exam.
        Ultimate waiver authority rests with AF/A7C, and packages are coordinated at
        AFCESA/CEO. For more information on needed documentation to include in the
        waiver package, contact AFCESA/CEO.

        10.1.2.3. 32E1A/C/E/F/I/J: Undergraduate or graduate degree in the area specified by
        the suffix in Part I paragraph 5.4 is mandatory.

        10.1.2.4. 32E1B: See paragraph 5.3.3.2.

        10.1.2.5. 32E1H: See paragraph 5.3.3.3.

                                               21
         10.1.2.6. 32E1G: Any 32EX may be assigned to positions requiring suffix G. Also,
         assign the G suffix to individuals with approved waivers into the career field that do not
         meet any of the other specialty criteria.

      10.1.3. Training: The following training is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:

         10.1.3.1. 32E3X: All active duty Civil Engineers shall complete the Air Force Institute
         of Technology (AFIT) course WMGT 101, Air Force Civil Engineer Basic course.

NOTE: Air Reserve Component officers shall complete AFIT courses WMGT 102, Introduction
to Base Civil Engineer Organizations for Reserve Forces, and WMGT 484, Reserve Forces Air
Base Combat Engineering, in-lieu of WMGT 101.

         10.1.3.2. 32E3B: Completion of the Readiness Flight Officer (RFO) course conducted
         at Fort Leonard Wood.

         10.1.3.3. 32E3H: Completion of the initial skills training course for EOD.

      10.1.4. Experience: The following experience is mandatory for award of the AFSC
      indicated:

         10.1.4.1. 32E3A/B/C/E/F/G/H/I/J: A minimum of 12 months of experience in the
         specialty.

         10.1.4.2. Other: If a Civil Engineering officer cannot complete the requirement of
         paragraph 5.3.3.1 in Part I, then they will be upgraded based on 2 years of duty in CE
         regardless of specialty; WMGT 101 is still mandatory even if not completed after two
         years. Upgrading will be in the specialty relating to their academic discipline or suffix
         G - General Engineer, dependent upon duty position. Officers whose academic area is
         not compatible with suffixes A, C, E, F, I or J will be upgraded in suffix G only.

  10.2. Specialties:

  Suffix                                                                         Definition
   A...........................................................................Architect/Architectural Engineer
   B ...........................................................................Readiness Engineer
   C ...........................................................................Civil Engineer
   E ...........................................................................Electrical Engineer
   F ...........................................................................Mechanical Engineer
   G...........................................................................General Engineer
   H...........................................................................Explosive Ordnance Disposal Engineer
   I ...........................................................................Industrial Engineer
   J ............................................................................Environmental Engineer




                                                          22
Section D – Resource Constraints. There are no resource constraints requirements. This
area is reserved.

PART II

Section A – Course Training Standards

1. Task Lists. The following flight tasks are indicative of the types of functions normally
encountered within a typical civil engineer squadron (although officers are not typically assigned
to the Resources and Fire Protection Flights, they do routinely interface with each flight;
therefore, these flights have been included in Section A). The flights shown below correlate with
the flights as described in Part I, Section B, para 6.2.1, of this CFETP. These tasks may vary
depending on your squadron and base.

   1.1. Programs Flight: Programming, design, and construction.

      1.1.1. Programming: Identify, define, validate, and advocate maintenance, repair, and
      construction requirements.
         1.1.1.1. Define scope and cost of work and determine work classification.
         1.1.1.2. Prepare project documentation, especially DD Form 1391s, and obtain project
         approval.
         1.1.1.3. Determine appropriate funding avenues and prepare supporting documents.
         1.1.1.4. Maintain project management databases and leverage their reporting tools.
         1.1.1.5. Incorporate Asset Management principles and guidance in project
         programming.

      1.1.2. Design: Develop technical drawings and specifications for project execution.
         1.1.2.1. Determine method of design (in-house versus contract).
         1.1.2.2. Refine scope of work and cost estimate.
         1.1.2.3. Completion of in-house designs and oversight of contracted designs.
         1.1.2.4. Update project management databases.
         1.1.2.5. Conduct comprehensive design reviews.
         1.1.2.6. Perform activities associated with contract award.
         1.1.2.7. Development of infrastructure maintenance and repair plans.
         1.1.2.8. Manage GeoBase programs.

      1.1.3. Construction: Execution of project design from contract award to financial closeout.
         1.1.3.1. Conduct pre-construction conference.
         1.1.3.2. Inspect materials and workmanship.
         1.1.3.3. Facilitate work through effective coordination with base agencies.
                                                23
     1.1.3.4. Monitor and document project status.

1.2. Asset Management Flight. Planning, restoration, pollution prevention, compliance,
conservation, housing, optimization of assets/resources, and real property management.

  1.2.1. Planning: Develop and monitor a strategy for supporting mission requirements,
  preserving quality of life, fostering an effective working relationship with the surrounding
  community, and implementation of asset management principles.
     1.2.1.1. Develop and maintain land use plans.
     1.2.1.2. Monitor air installation compatible use zone study.
     1.2.1.3. Maintain base and housing comprehensive plans.
     1.2.1.4. Space utilization and optimization.
     1.2.1.5. Activity Management Plan integration.
     1.2.1.6. Process/playbook improvement champion, benchmarking.
     1.2.1.7. Asset management training and education.
     1.2.1.8. Perform base comprehensive planning.

  1.2.2. Restoration: Identify site contamination, determine relative risk, and clean-up as
  necessary.
     1.2.2.1. Consolidates all known and suspected contamination sites and prioritizes sites
     based on risk.
     1.2.2.2. Manage site closure rates.
     1.2.2.3. Analysis and selection of best available technologies to meet restoration
     requirements.
     1.2.2.4. Coordinate with community and regulatory agencies.
     1.2.2.5. Provide project management of studies and restoration contracts.

  1.2.3. Pollution Prevention: Eliminate/reduce pollution.
     1.2.3.1. Manage the Reuse, Recovery, and Recycling Program (RRRP).
     1.2.3.2. Survey, track, and reduce the use of hazardous materials and the generation of
     pollutants.

  1.2.4. Compliance: Comply with all local, state, and federal legal and regulatory
  requirements.
     1.2.4.1. Prepare and maintain required permits and plans.
     1.2.4.2. Implement projects and actions to comply with requirements.
     1.2.4.3. Implement and maintain required training programs.



                                            24
  1.2.5. Conservation: Preserve natural and cultural resources, and evaluate impact of
  proposed military actions on the environment.

  1.2.6. Other general management tasks:
     1.2.6.1. Develop, implement, and maintain management plans and training programs.
     1.2.6.2. Perform environmental audits.
     1.2.6.3. Track regulatory violations and corrective actions.
     1.2.6.4. Establish an environmental funding program to identify and advocate for
     environmental funding and track and report expenditures.
     1.2.6.5. Update database for environmental programming, budgeting, and execution (A-
     106).
     1.2.6.6. Organize and conduct Environmental Protection Committee (EPC) and other
     committee meetings.
     1.2.6.7. Establish and maintain an effective public relations program.
     1.2.6.8. Perform energy and utility management.

  1.2.7. Military Family Housing:
     1.2.7.1. Assigns, terminates, and inspects military family housing units.
     1.2.7.2. Monitors military family housing maintenance contracts.
     1.2.7.3. Provides housing referral service.
     1.2.7.4. Manage housing waiting list.
     1.2.7.5. Oversight of privatized housing.

  1.2.8. Dormitory Management:
     1.2.8.1. Assigns/terminates rooms.
     1.2.8.2. Track occupancy rates.
     1.2.8.3. Budget for furnishings requirements.
     1.2.8.4. Manage waiting lists.
     1.2.8.5. Develops dormitory upgrade plan.

  1.2.9. Ensures land, facilities, and utilities owned or leased are properly classified, tracked,
  managed, and effectively used.
     1.2.9.1. Monitors and maintains real property records.
     1.2.9.2. Manages CE input to support agreements.

1.3. Readiness and Emergency Management Flight. Prepares engineers for wartime and
contingency missions. Trains base populace in chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear,
and explosive weapons (CBRNE) defense and peacetime disaster response.

                                             25
  1.3.1. CE contingency training:
     1.3.1.1. Beddown of weapon systems and personnel.
     1.3.1.2. Base recovery after attack (BRAAT).
     1.3.1.3. Miscellaneous training such as field sanitation, self-aid buddy care, security,
     and weapons.

  1.3.2. Manages War Reserve Material (WRM), mobility gear, training equipment, and
  weapons.

  1.3.3. Prepares and coordinates actions to support contingency operations.
     1.3.3.1. Accomplishes actions to deploy civil engineers
     1.3.3.2. Base Recovery Plan.
     1.3.3.3. Host nation support agreements (MOAs, MAAs, etc).
     1.3.3.4. Develops checklists/procedures.
     1.3.3.5. Installation Contingency Response Plan.
     1.3.3.6. Base Civil Engineer Contingency Response Plan.
     1.3.3.7. Base Support Plans.

  1.3.4. Manages wing/base Emergency Operations Center (EOC), Air Base Operability
  (ABO), Emergency Management (EM) & Disaster Preparedness (DP) Programs.
     1.3.4.1. Provide management of EOC.
     1.3.4.2. Provide training for Air Force Incident Management System (AFIMS).
     1.3.4.3. CBRNE training.
     1.3.4.4. Camouflage, Concealment, & Deception (CCD).
     1.3.4.5. Peacetime disaster and major accident response.
     1.3.4.6. Interface with local emergency agencies.
     1.3.4.7. Operates CE Unit Control Center (UCC) during contingency
     operations/exercises.

1.4. Operations Flight: Operation, maintenance, repair, and capital improvement of base
facilities and infrastructure.

  1.4.1. Real Property Maintenance: Responsible for maintaining facilities and base
  infrastructure to include:
     1.4.1.1. Electrical systems.
     1.4.1.2. Airfield lighting systems.
     1.4.1.3. Aircraft arresting systems.

                                             26
     1.4.1.4. Natural gas distribution systems.
     1.4.1.5. Liquid fuel systems.
     1.4.1.6. Alarm and control systems.
     1.4.1.7. Sewage collection systems.
     1.4.1.8. Fire protection systems.
     1.4.1.9. Water distribution systems.
     1.4.1.10. Storm water systems.
     1.4.1.11. Pavement systems.
     1.4.1.12. Heating and cooling systems.
     1.4.1.13. Corrosion control systems, to include cathodic protection systems.
     1.4.1.14. Lightning protection and grounding systems.

  1.4.2. Plant operations: Operates central heat/chiller plants, water and wastewater
  treatment facilities, and electrical power plants.

  1.4.3. Capital improvements: Responsible for minor modifications and construction to
  support mission requirements and improvements to quality of life.

  1.4.4. Real property services: Provides in-house and contract services, and management of
  misc service contracts.
     1.4.4.1. Custodial.
     1.4.4.2. Grounds maintenance.
     1.4.4.3. Refuse collection.
     1.4.4.4. Protective coatings.
     1.4.4.5. Snow removal.
     1.4.4.6. Pest management.
     1.4.4.7. Misc Service Contracts include things like: Waste Oil disposal; small
     pump/motor repair; elevator maintenance; recurring maintenance services; and carpet
     installation.

  1.4.5. Resource Management: Responsible for the management of manpower, funds,
  vehicles, and materials to perform real property maintenance, capital improvements,
  service contracts, and technical support. This includes material acquisition and
  GOCESS/COCESS.

  1.4.6. Customer Service: Responsible for production control, management of the BCE
  work order program, including the work order review board, as well as work scheduling.

1.5. Resources Flight: Real property, unit funds, information management, and manpower.

                                            27
  1.5.1. Advises the commander on financial plans, budget execution, and analysis of cost
  and productivity reports.
     1.5.1.1. Develops squadron financial plan.
     1.5.1.2. Prioritizes budget requirements.
     1.5.1.3. Advocates for funding and monitors funds availability by funding category.
     1.5.1.4. Tracks reimbursement requirements.
     1.5.1.5. Interprets financial reports and conducts productivity analysis.

  1.5.2. Operates and oversees information management systems.
     1.5.2.1. Advises and assists squadron personnel on computer operations.
     1.5.2.2. Manages computer hardware and software programs and local area network.

  1.5.3. Oversees unit manning document (UMD) and conducts Force Management.
     1.5.3.1. Personnel / human resources management, civilian hiring, manpower.
     1.5.3.2. Maintains, interprets, and ensures UMD reflects accurate data.
     1.5.3.3. Review and develop position descriptions.

1.6. Explosives Ordnance Disposal (EOD) Flight: Provides explosive ordnance disposal
support and training in peace and wartime.
  1.6.1. Render safe and dispose of foreign and domestic explosive devices:
     1.6.1.1. Conventional, chemical/biological, nuclear, munitions incidents/accidents.
     1.6.1.2. Improvised explosive devices (IED).
     1.6.1.3. In-flight/ground aircraft emergencies.
     1.6.1.4. Aircraft crashes--bombing and gunnery, test and evaluation, and verification
     ranges.
     1.6.1.5. Range clearance operations.

  1.6.2. Supports other agencies:
     1.6.2.1. Very Important Person (VIP) support.
     1.6.2.2. Federal Agency Assistance.
     1.6.2.3. US Intelligence Community.
     1.6.2.4. Civilian Authority Assistance.
     1.6.2.5. Training to base agencies.
     1.6.2.6. Other service EOD units.


                                            28
  1.7. Fire Emergency and Services Flight: Provides base fire protection services.
     1.7.1. Aircraft crash and rescue response.
     1.7.2. Structural fire response.
     1.7.3. Fire prevention, training, and community awareness.
     1.7.4. Hazardous material response.
     1.7.5. Initial On-Scene Commander Representative for disaster response.

  1.8. General Squadron Tasks: in addition to the above tasks associated with each individual
  flight, CE officers are expected to participate in contingency training. This will include
  assisting with the planning, preparation, and execution of AFI 10-210 directed training tasks,
  to include the requirement to plan and execute two large work orders (500-1,000 man-hours
  each) in a 20 month period. While CEX may have the lead, all CGOs should participate at a
  level more than “attending class”.

NOTE: The Civil Engineer Squadron Commander (CE SQ/CC) leads, manages, and integrates
all flights to best support mission requirements. CE SQ/CCs also act as the base fire marshal.


Section B - Training Course Index

2. Formal Education and Training Courses. The following courses are the minimum
recommended for the positions indicated. Local requirements will often present unique
opportunities depending on your squadron’s organization, and you should attempt to take courses
at the earliest opportunity possible. Refer to the AFIT web site the Civil Engineer School web
page at www.afit.edu for CE PCE courses. Contact your unit or MAJCOM training manager for
more information on other education and training opportunities.

  2.1. New CE Officer (Any Flight).
     2.1.1. WMGT 101, Air Force Civil Engineer Basic.
     2.1.2. WENG 481, Simplified Facility Design.
     2.1.3. WMGT 423, Project Programming.
     2.1.4. WMGT 422, Project Management.
     2.1.5. Depending on your degree, suffix and duty position, focus on those W ENG,
     WENV, and WMGT courses designed for your particular specialty or duty position. These
     courses should be taken at the earliest opportunity to obtain a higher level of technical
     competence. Many of the courses shown below fall into this category, and by taking them
     at your earliest opportunity, you’ll better prepare yourself for future leadership positions.

  2.2. Senior Captains (with Over Eight Years of Commissioned Service) and Majors.
     2.2.1. WMGT 585, Contingency Engineer Command Course.


                                                  29
  2.2.2. WMGT 590, Joint Engineer Operations Course.

2.3. Readiness Flight Chief.
  2.3.1. Readiness Flight Officer (RFO) Course at Fort Leonard Wood, MO.

2.4. EOD Flight Chief.
  2.4.1. WMGT 433, EOD Flight Commanders course.
  2.4.2. Basic EOD School (Badge awarding course).
  2.4.3. Advanced Nuclear Course.
  2.4.4. Advanced Management Course.
  2.4.5. Advanced Access and Disablement.

2.5. SABER Element Chief.
  2.5.1. WMGT 426, SABER Management.

2.6. Asset Management Flight Chief.
  2.6.1. WMGT 416, Asset Management Flight Commander Course.

2.7. Environmental Element Chief.
  2.7.1. AFIT CE School WENV courses as appropriate.

2.8. Resources Flight Chief (normally a civilian position).
  2.8.1. WMGT 411, Resources Flight Commanders Course.
  2.8.2. Other financial management courses as appropriate.

2.9. Programs Flight Chief (normally a civilian position requiring professional
registration).
  2.9.1. WMGT 420, Programs Flight Commanders Course.
  2.9.2. Other courses as appropriate.

2.10. Operations Flight Commander.
  2.10.1. WMGT 430, Operations Flight Commanders Course.
  2.10.2. WMGT 436, Operations Support Course.

2.11. Civil Engineer Squadron Commander (CE SQ/CC). Attend the following courses at
your earliest opportunity to prepare for the responsibilities of a CE SQ/CC.
  2.11.1. Mandatory Training.
     2.11.1.1. WMGT 400, Civil Engineer Commander/Deputy.

                                           30
        2.11.1.2. MAJCOM SQ/CC Orientation.
     2.11.2. Essential Training.
        2.11.2.1. MLMDC 813, Air Force Incident Management Course (formerly the On-
        Scene Commander).
        2.11.2.2. Fire Marshal Course.
        2.11.2.3. General Officer Quarters (GOQ) Management Course.
     2.11.3. Recommended Training.
        2.11.3.1. Senior Leader NBCC Course.

Section C – Support Materiel. There are currently no support material requirements. This area
is reserved.

Section D – MAJCOM Unique Requirements. There are currently no MAJCOM unique
requirements. This area is reserved.

Section E - Other Professional Training and Education.

3. Developmental Education (DE). DE provides your educational exposure to the Profession of
Arms and is a prerequisite for advancement to the senior ranks. Development Teams (DTs)
comprised of Civil Engineer Senior Leaders convene twice every year to “vector” officers in
specific year groups to future assignments and IDE (Intermediate Developmental
Education)/SDE (Senior Developmental Education) opportunities. Each CE officer is looked at
twice by the DT: once as a senior captain and once as a major. Dates for DTs and the year
group involved are publicized by AFPC. At the completion of the process each officer in the
concerned year group will receive a vector from the DT on his/her next several assignments and
DE. This vector will define the overall path in which the DT believes the officer’s career should
move. The DT concentrates on types of assignments (e.g., Ops Chief, MAJCOM, Squadron CC,
etc.) rather than specific assignments. For a more in-depth description of the DTs see AFI 36-
2640. The base education office can provide more complete information on criteria and
enrollment procedures for DE non-residence programs. Normally, commanders are notified
when nominations for in-residence DE are due, and your organization should advertise the
opportunity to apply. DE in-residence is centrally funded and subject to AF-wide competition.
The levels of DE are:

  3.1. Basic Developmental Education (BDE): Air and Space Basic Course (ASBC).

     3.1.1. Curriculum: The Air and Space Basic Course is designed to inspire new USAF
     officers to comprehend their roles as airmen who understand and live by USAF core
     values, articulate and demonstrate USAF core competencies, and who dedicates oneself as
     a warrior in the world's most respected air and space force. Through a dynamic shared
     experience, ASBC seeks to develop Lieutenants into 21st century Airmen who can (1)
     Articulate and demonstrate USAF core competencies (2) Champion air, space, and
     cyberspace contributions to Joint operations (3) Value and promote the inherent strength in
     USAF core values and teamwork.

                                               31
  3.1.2. Residence: Six weeks temporary duty (TDY) at Air University, Maxwell Air Force
  Base, Montgomery AL. http://asbc.maxwell.af.mil/asbc.html.

3.2. Basic Developmental Education (BDE): Squadron Officer School (SOS).

  3.2.1. Curriculum: Instruction in leadership, officership, force employment, and
  communications skills (letter writing and preparing and delivering briefings), problem
  solving, and teamwork.

  3.2.2. Residence: Five weeks temporary duty (TDY) at Air University, Maxwell Air
  Force Base, Montgomery AL. http://www.au.af.mil/au/soc/sos.html.

  3.2.3. Correspondence: Refer to http://sos.maxwell.af.mil/.

  3.2.4. In-residence Criteria: Officers with more than four but less than seven years Total
  Air Force Commissioned Service (TAFCS) who are not in a failed or deferred promotion
  status.

3.3. Intermediate Developmental Education (IDE).

  3.3.1. Curriculum: A number of schools are available, but Air Command and Staff
  College (ACSC) is most commonly attended by Air Force personnel; contact your base
  training office for a list of other schools. The ACSC program includes warfighting at the
  operational level, doctrine, jointness, the profession of arms, and analytical and practical
  tools needed for leadership in the application of air and space power.
  http://wwwacsc.au.af.mil/.

  3.3.2. Residence: Ten months at Maxwell AFB for ACSC.

  3.3.3. Correspondence/Seminar: Refer to http://wwwacsc.au.af.mil/.

  3.3.4. In-residence Criteria: Major or Major-select.

3.4. Senior Developmental Education (SDE).

  3.4.1. Curriculum: A number of schools are available, but Air Force engineers
  commonly attend Air War College (AWC); contact your base training office for a list of
  other schools. The AWC program primarily focuses on war fighting, the application of air
  and space power in joint or combined operations, evaluation of national security and
  military strategy formulation, defense resource allocation and management, trends and
  sources of conflict in the international system, and the execution of strategy in a multipolar
  world. http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awchome.htm.

  3.4.2. Residence: 10 months at Maxwell AFB for AWC.



                                            32
     3.4.3. Correspondence/Seminar: Refer to https://ausis.maxwell.af.mil/SIS/app/.

     3.4.4. In-residence Criteria: Lt Col or Lt Col-select.

4. Graduate Education.

  4.1. An appropriate graduate degree early in your career will enhance your job performance
  and your value to the Air Force. The majority of CE officers hold a Master’s degree by the
  time they are promoted to Major and the vast majority of the officers promoted to Lt Col have
  at least a Master’s degree. The completion of a Master’s degree is also a heavily weighted
  part of the AF promotion to Major, so it is highly recommended that officers complete their
  Master’s degree prior to meeting their Major’s boards (or risk not being promoted). The
  majority of advanced degrees held by CE officers are in management, engineering
  management or business administration, though many hold a Master’s in engineering or
  science. There are four basic routes to getting a Master’s degree while on active duty:

     4.1.1. AF supported off-duty education programs. This method generally is most
     suitable for the pursuit of a management degree. Air Force Tuition Assistance (TA)
     programs can pay as much as 100% of tuition costs. This is by far the most common
     method used by CE officers. Visit your base education office to determine what programs
     are available in your area.

     4.1.2. AFIT’s Graduate Engineering Management (GEM) program. This is a
     competitively selected program available to approximately 20 company grade officers each
     year. The selected officers pursue a Master’s degree full-time while assigned to AFIT at
     Wright-Patterson AFB OH. General note: the Academic Degree Panel is a body that
     provides guidance for structure of both USAFA undergraduate and AFIT graduate degree
     programs to ensure they are providing the best education possible. For more information
     visit the AFIT web site at www.afit.edu.

     4.1.3. Faculty Preparatory Programs: AFIT’s Civil Engineer School (AFIT/CES) and
     the Air Force Academy’s Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering (HQ
     USAFA/DFCE) sponsor officers for graduate engineering degrees (MS and PhD) at
     civilian universities followed by a tour as a faculty member. For more information visit
     their web sites: AFIT/CES: www.afit.edu. HQ USAFA/DFCE:
     http://www.usafa.edu/df/dfce/index.cfm.

     4.1.4. Civilian Institutions (CI) Program: Finally officers are sometimes selected to
     attend graduate engineering at civilian universities in preparation to fill certain billets that
     require advanced degrees. Only a few of these positions are available each year. Most of
     these technical billets are at either the Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency
     (AFCESA) or the Air Force Center for Engineering and the Environment (AFCEE). For
     information contact Civil Engineer Assignments branch at DSN 665-3451/3452.




                                                 33
  4.2. Each of the methods has its advantages and disadvantages. You will have to determine
  the program best suited to you. What is clear is that Air Force Civil Engineering is a
  demanding and competitive field and possession of a graduate degree is a must.

5. Contingency Training. Various types of contingency training exist for civil engineering
officers. Local exercises make up a significant element of this training. Also, the final week of
WMGT 101 gives new officers a taste of actual field training. If you get stationed at a base with
a mobility mission, you’ll eventually get to experience additional training at one of the three
Silver Flag sites through deployments with your Prime BEEF team. Additional home station
contingency training requirements are identified within the training tables associated with AFI
10-210 at the following link: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/contentView.do?contentType=EDITORIAL&contentId=c6925EC17DC7D0FB5E0
44080020E329A9&programId=t6925EC2B38880FB5E044080020E329A9&channelPageId=s69
25EC13537D0FB5E044080020E329A9&parentCategoryId=-1900283

6. Professional Continuing Education (PCE).

  6.1. Refer to AFIT’s Civil Engineer School (CES) web page http://www.afit.edu/cess for the
  latest PCE offerings. AF/DPPE is the Air Force OPR for Education and Training including
  oversight of PCE. In 1997 PCE was tied to the Air Force Training/Education CONOPS
  implementation to better link AF corporate resources to requirements through the Program
  Objective Memorandum (POM) cycle. The OPRs for oversight of engineering and
  management courses are AF/A7CXX and AFCESA/CEO. Each MAJCOM training manager
  conducts annual screening and validation for their respective commands and forwards
  requirements to AFCESA/CEO for consolidation. Other opportunities also exist locally
  through seminars, workshops, and classes. Contact your unit or MAJCOM training manager
  for more information.

  6.2. Distance Education Programs. In addition to resident courses, AFIT’s Civil Engineer
  School serves thousands of students annually through distance education programs. On-site
  courses, on-site seminars, satellite broadcasts, and videotapes deliver job-related education to
  the workplace. Refer to AFIT/CES web page http://www.afit.edu/cess for the most current
  information on course offerings.

7. Acquisition Courses. Some officers might have the opportunity to work in research and
development (R&D) positions at major commands and field operating locations. The Defense
Acquisition University offers resident and exportable courses, such as Acquisition 101 and 210,
which help prepare officers for working in the acquisition field. Contact your unit or MAJCOM
training manager for more information.

Section F – Leadership and Supervision.

8. Introduction.

  8.1. Leadership is an inherent responsibility of every military officer. Over the ages many
  great military leaders have displayed their unique talents both on and off the battlefields. All

                                               34
great leaders seem to understand and possess certain core values (or principles), which help
them navigate through the tough times of leadership. Principles like honesty, integrity,
commitment, enthusiastic energy, humility, faith and vision.

8.2. Leadership in the Air Force begins with understanding and living our core values every
day. The Air Force core values of: Integrity first; Service before self; and Excellence in all
we do, help us to continue being the absolute best at what we do. Former Secretary of the Air
Force, Dr. Sheila Widnall, summed up core values like this:

“Core values make the military what it is; without them, we cannot succeed. They are the
values that instill confidence, earn lasting respect, and create willing followers. They are the
values that anchor resolve in the most difficult situations. They are the values that buttress
mental and physical courage when we enter combat. In essence, they are the three pillars of
professionalism that provide the foundation for military leadership at every level.”

8.3. One great example of what it takes to be an effective leader can be found in these words,
“BE A LEADER”:

   8.3.1. B BE BETTER than those you have admired and respected; the best way to pay
   back those who have helped mentor your growth is to be better than even they hoped you
   would be.

   8.3.2. E EXPECT THE UNEXPECTED – You’ve been promoted because of your
   proven potential to take on more responsibility. This brings with it a lot of unforeseen,
   unexpected terrain. Be ready to take on whatever comes your way head on; a true leader
   can afford to get surprised, but he/she can’t afford to let surprise trip him/her up!

   8.3.3. A ACCOUNTABILITY – You will fly lead more than ever now, take the heat for
   your mistakes and those of your team; give your team all the credit you can; always
   provide top cover for your troops – even when it hurts.

   8.3.4. L LEARN/LOVE/LOOK AHEAD – Learn every day – it’s the key to not only
   continuously improving, but sustaining yourself as the best of the best (which is what those
   who follow you will expect/hope for). Love your troops and your family – always keep
   your priorities here in clear focus; never neglect either one. Look Ahead – you must
   constantly hone your vision for the future; without doing it, you will be blind and worse
   yet, your troops will be too.

   8.3.5. E EXPERT – Never assume you are one, always strive to be one. Be prepared for
   others to automatically expect you are one by virtue of your rank/position.

   8.3.6. A ATTITUDE & ACCUMEN – There is no substitute for a sustained positive,
   proactive, and professional attitude -- especially when you must lead something you don’t
   particularly agree with. There is also no substitute for looking and acting like an all-pro at
   all times -- remember, a shiny penny catches the eye before a dull one every time!



                                              35
     8.3.7. D DOER – If you are not leading by doing, by example, then you’re not leading.
     Never ask/task others to do anything you would not do yourself. Always consider this
     before you levy the task.

     8.3.8. E EXCELLENCE is largely a function of mission success and what the people you
     serve with think about you and your leadership; it’s never easy to do well in both arenas
     consistently, but that’s what you must always strive for.

     8.3.9. R RESPECT comes with the grade; what really counts is what you earn!

  8.4. Mentorship. A fundamental responsibility of leadership is to “grow” the next generation
  of leaders. As a supervisor, you must mentor and counsel your subordinates, assist them in
  developing well-defined goals, and ensure they are given realistic feedback. Supervisors
  should use this plan to help their subordinates obtain a balance of experience, education and
  training, and professional development. In addition to providing mentorship, you should
  actively seek mentorship from your superiors and more experienced peers, enlisted, and
  civilians.

  8.5. Feedback. The officer, enlisted, and civilian promotion systems require formal feedback
  sessions. Initial feedback to your subordinate establishes your expectations for their
  performance. Follow on feedback sessions allow you to communicate to the subordinate just
  how well they are meeting your expectations. Just as importantly, the informal feedback you
  give your subordinates will enhance communication and help improve job performance.

9. Supervising Officers.

  9.1. Commander’s Involvement Program (CIP). Commanders have the best insight into an
  officer’s talents, strengths, limitations, and professional development needs. Their
  responsibilities with respect to the professional development and assignment of their officers
  occur in two phases: Phase I which offers general professional development guidance, and
  Phase II which relates to specific assignments for which an officer volunteers. Refer to AFI
  36-2611, Chapter 8, for a complete explanation of the CIP.

  9.2. Officer Evaluation System (OES). AFI 36-2611, Chapter 3, discusses the OES. This
  document includes information on the objective of the program, documenting job
  performance as well as dealing with Promotion Recommendation Forms (PRFs). You can
  access it on AF e-publishing through the AF Portal.

  9.3. Officer Promotion System (OPS). AFI 36-2611, Chapter 4, describes the purpose and
  details of the OPS. Detailed information on such things as promotion opportunities, phase
  points, selection criteria, and selection boards are included. AFPAM 36-2506 contains
  additional information on officer promotion as well as selective continuation. You can access
  both documents on AF e-publishing. Talk with your supervisor and commander on the details
  of the OPS. Promotion board schedules are also available on the AFPC home page.




                                              36
10. Supervising Enlisted.

   10.1. The Enlisted Force Structure. AFI 36-2618 defines the enlisted force structure and
   implements AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development. It establishes leadership and
   development levels, responsibilities, and official terms of address for enlisted Airmen. It
   describes special senior noncommissioned officer positions and standardizes duty titles, This
   AFI is accessible on AF e-publishing.

   10.2. Enlisted Evaluation System (EES). AFI 36-2406 is the governing document for the
   EES. It includes information on such areas as performance feedback, enlisted performance
   reports, as well as other pertinent information. This AFI is accessible on AF e-publishing.

   10.3. Airman Promotion Program. AFI 36-2502 covers the airman promotion program. It
   contains information on promotions from Amn through CMSgt. This AFI is accessible on AF
   e-publishing. .

   10.4. Enlisted Training. AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, covers the management
   and development of enlisted training. This AFI is accessible on AF e-publishing.

11. Supervising Civilians.

   11.1. Throughout your career you will be required to supervise civilians. This is a unique
   leadership opportunity that requires specific knowledge and training. These areas include
   union agreements, civilian appraisals, time keeping, etc. You can locate the most current
   information on the civilian personnel system by contacting the Civilian Personnel Office at
   your base.

   11.2. Civilian Performance Program. Refer to AFI 36-1001, Managing the Civilian
   Performance Program, for the latest information on how to manage the civilian performance
   program. This instruction includes information on such issues as: performance planning and
   appraisals, incentive awards, monetary incentive awards, time off incentive awards, honorary
   incentive awards, dealing with performance problems, as well as keeping records. AFI 36-
   1001 is accessible on AF e-publishing.

12. Supervisory Training Program. Initial training for all newly assigned supervisors helps
bridge the gap between the skills required at the working level and those required at the
supervisory level. Before first-level supervisors assume their new duties, or within six months
after assignment to a supervisory position, they will be provided the initial training described
below.

   12.1. Air Force Supervisor’s Course. This course is designed to provide first-level
   supervisors, regardless of organizational component, with leadership and management skills
   required in supervisory positions. Contact your local FSS for more information on available
   training for supervisors.




                                                37
  12.2. Civilian Personnel Management Course (CPMC). This course is designed to provide
  military and civilian first-level supervisors with background information and an
  understanding of applicable personnel laws and regulations needed to effectively carry out
  their civilian personnel management responsibilities. Contact your local Civilian Personnel
  Office for more details, and for “equivalency” credit, if applicable.

  12.3. Overseas. MAJCOMs and servicing civilian personnel flights (CPF) in overseas areas
  develop and present training courses for military and civilian supervisors of local national
  (LN) employees to meet local needs. No standard Air Force course will be developed due to
  the wide diversity in LN personnel programs.

13. Awards and Decorations. One of the most important responsibilities of being a supervisor
is to properly recognize and reward your subordinates for exceptional performance. AFI 36-
2803 contains the latest information on the Air Force Awards and Decorations Program. This
guidance document is accessible on AF e-publishing. Some other programs are listed below:

  13.1. The CE Awards Program. The CE Awards Program is an annual program designed to
  recognize and reward outstanding performance in a number of different categories. AFI 36-
  2817 covers the latest information on the CE Awards Program and is accessible on AF e-
  publishing.

  13.2. Squadron/Wing Recognition Programs. Local recognition programs vary by
  locations. Contact your first sergeant or squadron section commander for a full listing of
  recognition programs available.

  13.3. Civilian Awards. Civilian awards vary by location as well. Contact your civilian
  personnel office for local information or AFI 36-1001 for overall guidance on managing the
  civilian performance program.

BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL                                       TIMOTHY A. BYERS, Maj Gen, USAF
                                               The Civil Engineer
                                               DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support




                                              38
