DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                           CFETP 1C2X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                 Parts I & II
Washington, DC 20330                               1 September 2014




                            AFSC 1C2X1
                          COMBAT CONTROL




                            CAREER FIELD
                     EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN




                                  1
                               CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                     COMBAT CONTROL APPRENTICE
                                              AFSC 1C2X1

                                                      TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART I
Preface ............................................................................................ 3

Abbreviations/Terms Explained ....................................................... 4

Section A--General Information ....................................................... 8
Purpose, use, coordination and approval of the CFETP

Section B--Career Field Progression and Information .................... .9
Specialty Description
Skill/Career Progression
          Apprentice Level (3)
          Journeyman Level (5)
          Craftsman Level (7)
          Superintendent Level (9)
          Manager Level (0)
Training Decisions ......................................................................... 11
Community College of the Air Force .............................................. 22
Career Field Path........................................................................... 24

Section C--Skill Level Training Requirements ............................... 27
Purpose
Training Requirements
          Apprentice Level (3)
          Journeyman Level (5)
          Craftsman Level (7)
          Superintendent Level (9)

Section D--Resource Constraints .................................................. 31
Section E--Transitional Training Guide .......................................... 31

PART II
Section A--Specialty Training Standards ....................................... 32
Section B--Combat Control Training Tasks (non-ATC)……………35
Section C--Air Traffic Control Training Tasks…….………..……….52
Section D--Course Objectives List ................................................ .65
Section E--Support Materials ......................................................... 65
Section F--Training Course Index .................................................. 65
Section G--Additional Regulatory Guidance .................................. 67

Supersedes: CFETP 1C2X1, November 2006                          Approved by: HQ USAF/A3O (Maj Gen Shepro)
OPR: HQ USAF/A3O-AS (CMSgt Farris)                                              Number of Printed Pages: 67
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication
                                                                       2
                       COMBAT CONTROL APPRENTICE
                                  1C2X1
                 CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

PART I

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education and training requirements, training support
resources, minimum core task requirements and a defined career path. Using the guidance
provided in the CFETP ensures individuals receive effective and efficient training at the
appropriate point in their career.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts. Both parts are used to plan, manage, and control training
within the career field.
2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how everyone will use the plan; Section B identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path; Section C
associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, training, and other);
Section D indicates resource constraints. Some examples are funds, manpower, equipment,
and facilities. Section E identifies transition training guide requirements for SSgt through MSgt.
2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS)
and includes duties, task technical references to support training, Air Education and Training
Command (AETC) conducted training, wartime course, core tasks, and correspondence course
requirements: Section B contains the course objective list/training standards supervisors will use
to determine if Airmen satisfied training requirements; Section C identifies available support
materials. An example is a Qualification Training Package (QTP), which may be developed to
support proficiency training. These packages are identified on the AF publishing website,
http:/www.e-publishing.af.mil/; Section D identifies a training course index supervisors can use
to determine resources available to support training. Included here are both mandatory and
optional courses; Section E identifies MAJCOM unique training requirements supervisors can
use to determine additional training required for the associated qualification needs.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive
effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan will enable us to
train today’s work force for tomorrow’s jobs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II
to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.




                                                  3
ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Skills Training Course (ASTC). Course provided by the Special Tactics Training
Squadron designed to provide all Combat Control 5-skill level OJT and formal training
requirements.

Advanced Training. A formal course training toward a technical or supervisory level Air Force
specialty (AFS). Training is for career Airmen at the advanced level of an AFS.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard/Command Job Qualification Standard
(AFJQS/CJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a particular job type or duty position.
They are used by supervisors to document task qualifications. The tasks on AFJQS/CJQS are
common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Allocation Curves. The relation of hours of training in different training settings to the degree of
proficiency which can be achieved on specified performance requirements.

Functional Manager (FM). Commissioned or noncommissioned officer assigned at MAJCOM
level responsible for managing career field resources.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive document
that identifies specialty-training requirements. It outlines a logical growth path, including training
resources, and is designed to eliminate duplication and make training identifiable and budget
defensible.

Career Field Manager (CFM). Commissioned or noncommissioned officer assigned at Air Staff
level that manages career field resources.

Career Training Guide (CTG). A document that uses Task Modules (TMs) in lieu of tasks to
define performance and training requirements for a career field.

Continuation Training. Additional training exceeding requirements with emphasis on present
or future duty assignments.

Core Task. A task that Air Force Career Field Managers (AFCFMs) identify as a minimum
qualification requirement within an Air Force specialty.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication, derived from initial/advanced skills course training
standard, identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective standards provided
to achieve a 3-/7-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to assist in conducting
graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Developing, Managing and Conducting
Military Training Programs.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video, or
other necessary means to supplement training.
                                                  4
Field Technical Training (Type 4). Technical training conducted at operational locations
delivered by a training detachment (TD) or through a mobile training team (MTT) or a field
training team (FTT).

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly, but flexible process for
planning, developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures personnel
are taught in a cost efficient way the knowledge, skills, and attitudes essential for successful job
performance.

Initial Skills Training. A formal resident course which results in award of the entry level AFSC.

Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). A detailed report showing the results of an
occupational survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On The Job Training (OJT). A delivery method used to certify personnel in both upgrade (skill
level award) and job qualification (duty position certification) training. It is hands-on training
conducted at the duty location.

Optimal Training. The ideal combination of training settings resulting in the highest levels of
proficiency on specified performance requirements within the minimum time possible.

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an
individual in a specific duty position. This portion of the dual channel on-the-job training
program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the
performance skills required to do the job.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional package designed for use at the unit
to qualify, or aid qualification, in either a duty position, program, or on a piece of equipment. It
may be printed, computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.

Recurring Training. Training provided to periodically review selected current operational
procedures and techniques.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and
equipment that preclude desired training from being delivered.

Review Training. Training conducted for the purpose of correcting specific operational
deficiencies detected through performance evaluations, supervisory observations, trends, etc.

Skills Training. A formal course which results in the award of a skill level.

Special Tactics Team. An Air Force team composed primarily of combat control, Pararescue,
TACP and SOWT personnel. The team supports joint special operations by selecting,
surveying, and establishing assault zones; providing assault zone terminal guidance and air
traffic control; conducting direct action missions; providing medical care and evacuation;
coordinating, planning, and conducting air, ground, and naval fire support operations.


                                                  5
Special Tactics Training Squadron (STTS). Required Combat Control 5-skill level OJT and
formal training are normally accomplished at AFSOC’s STTS. STTS also provides AFSOC
mission familiarization training to Pararescue, TACP and SOWT personnel assigned to Special
Tactics units.

Specialty Training Package and COMSEC Qualification Training Package. A composite of
lesson plans, test material, instructions, policy, doctrine, and procedures necessary to conduct
training. These packages are prepared by AETC, approved by National Security Agency (NSA),
and administered by qualified communications security (COMSEC) maintenance personnel.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force
specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge which an airman in that specialty may be expected to
perform. To include, know how on the job, and identifies the training provided to achieve a 3-,
5-, and 7-skill level with an enlisted AFS. It further serves as a contract between the Air
Education and Training Command and the user to show the overall training requirements for an
Air Force specialty code that the formal schools teach.

Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, established and defined by
authority, custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring
quantities or qualities, establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results. A fixed
quantity or quality.

Task Module (TM). A group of tasks performed within an Air Force specialty that are performed
together and that require common knowledge, skills, and abilities. An identification code and a
statement identify TMs.

Total Force. All collective Air Force components (active, reserve, and civilian elements) of the
United States Air Force.

Training Capacity. The capability of a training setting to provide training on specified
requirements, based on the availability of resources.

Training Planning Team (TPT). Comprised of the same personnel as a U&TW, however TPTs
are more intimately involved in training development and the range of issues are greater than is
normal in the U&TW forum.

Training Requirements Analysis. A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFS to be
included in the training decision process.

Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-
the-job, field training, mobile training team, self-study etc.)

Upgrade Training (UGT). Mandatory training that leads to attainment of higher level of
proficiency and awarded AFSC skill-level.

Utilization and Training Pattern. A depiction of the training provided to and the jobs
performed by personnel throughout their tenure within a career field or Air Force specialty.
There are two types of patterns: 1) Current pattern, which is based on the training provided to
                                                6
incumbents and the jobs to which they have been and are assigned; and, 2) Alternate pattern,
which considers proposed changes in manpower, personnel, and training policies.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum of MAJCOM Air Force Specialty Code
(AFSC) functional managers, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training personnel that
determines career ladder training requirements.




                                              7
Section A -- General Information
1. Purpose. This CFETP provides the information necessary for the Career Field Manager
(CFM), MAJCOM functional managers (MFMs), commanders, training managers, supervisors
and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective career field training program.
This plan outlines the training that individuals in this AFS should receive in order to develop and
progress throughout their career. This plan identifies initial skills, qualifications, upgrade, and
advanced and proficiency training. Initial skills training is the AFS specific training an individual
receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-
skill level. Normally, this training is conducted by AETC at one of the technical training centers.
Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, and
correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, or 9-skill levels.
Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an airman
in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade
training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills/knowledge required to do the
job. Advanced training is formal specialty training used for selected Airmen. Proficiency training
is additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training courses, or on-the-job
training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum
required for upgrade. The CFETP has several purposes, some are:
1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field
training program. Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in
an individual's career.
1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.
1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and the
training delivery method.
1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired career
field training process.

2. Uses. The plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure comprehensive
and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.
2.1. AETC training personnel will develop/revise formal resident, non-resident, field and
exportable training based on requirements established by the users and documented in Part II
of the CFETP. They will also work with the CFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining
resources needed to provide the identified training.
2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial,
upgrade, and proficiency requirements. Identified requirements can be satisfied by OJT,
resident training, contract training, or exportable courses. MAJCOM-developed training to
support this AFSC must be identified for inclusion into plan.
2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan.
Lists of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval. The CFM is the approval authority. MAJCOM representatives
and AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field training
requirements. The AETC training manager for this specialty will initiate an annual review of this
document by AETC and MFMs to ensure currency and accuracy. Using the list of courses in
Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.



                                                 8
Section B – Career Progression and Information

4. Specialty Description. Combat Control is a volunteer-only, special operations career
field. Provides Command, Control, Communications, Intelligence, Surveillance and
Reconnaissance (C3ISR) to assist, control and enable the application of manned and
unmanned, lethal and non-lethal airpower in all geographic and environmental conditions across
the full spectrum of military operations. Includes Assault Zone survey, establishment and
operation and Terminal Control (Air Traffic Control (ATC) and targeting and control of airstrikes
(including close air support (CAS)) and visual and electronic aids to control airheads and enable
precision navigation. Provides long-range voice and data command and control,
communications. Performs tactical level surveillance and reconnaissance functions fusing
organic and remote controlled technologies and manned platforms to build the Common
Operating Picture (COP).
4.1. Specialty Summary.
4.1.1. Performs intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) in semi/non permissive and
combat environments. Conducts reconnaissance and surveillance of potential assault zones
and target areas. Plans, coordinates, and conducts operations using advanced technologies to
support reconnaissance and target identification. Records and submits site surveys of assault
zones (drop, landing, forward area refueling points (FARP)) and other areas critical to aviation.
Evaluates and relays status of airfields and assault zones to inbound aircraft and higher
headquarters. Provides limited weather observations, including surface and altitude wind data,
temperature, and cloud heights. Reports current battlefield information.
4.1.2. Plans, organizes, supervises, and establishes ATC in the target area. Initiates,
coordinates, and issues ATC clearances, holding instructions, and advisories to maintain aircraft
separation and enable safe, orderly, and expeditious flow of traffic under visual or conventional
approach control flight rules. Operates and monitors portable and mobile communications
equipment and terminal and tactical navigation aids required to control and support air traffic in
forward areas. Prepares and issues advisories to pilots, ATC and other agencies concerning
weather, notice-to-Airmen information, air traffic flow control measures, and wake turbulence.
Provides flight assistance and emergency service to air traffic. Records weather and ATC data.
Controls vehicular traffic on the airport movement area. Identifies, assesses, and marks assault
zones with visual and electronic navigation aids for day and night airland and airdrop operations.
Coordinates clearances, instructions, advisories, and air traffic movement with forward and rear
area commanders. Uses ground-to-air communications equipment and visual and electronic
systems to control and expedite the movement of en route, arriving, and departing air traffic.
Directs actions to handle aircraft emergencies or mishaps. Coordinates with medical personnel
on casualty and patient staging points. Provides airlift operations support that cannot be
provided by combat communications groups or other agencies. Operates Global Positioning
Systems (GPS) equipment to navigate for infiltration or exfiltration and locate assault zones.
Coordinates airfield ground support (crash/fire/rescue, sweep).
4.1.3. Targets and Controls fires. Plans, coordinates, and conducts fires to accomplish
supported commander objectives. Includes CAS and supporting arms for surface elements and
C4ISR in support of combined forces air component commander (CFACC) assets. Employs
visual and electronic navigation and marking equipment to direct aviation assets to target.
Issues weapons release clearance.
4.1.4. Deploys into forward areas and forward operating locations by land (mounted, special
purpose vehicle or dismounted), sea (surface or subsurface naval vessel, small watercraft,
SCUBA, or surface swim) or air (parachute, airmobile, airland) to participate in the full spectrum
                                                9
of military operations to include Air Expeditionary Force (AEF), force projection, Direct Action
(DA), Counterterrorism (CT), Counterproliferation (CP), Foreign Internal Defense (FID),
Humanitarian Assistance (HA), Special Reconnaissance (SR), Personnel Recovery (PR), Non-
Combatant Evacuation Operations (NEO), Integrated Survey Program (ISP), Counter Drug
(CD), Unmanned Aerial Systems (UASs), Operational Preparation of the Environment (OPE),
Advanced Force Operations (AFO), and fire support operations. Uses demolitions to remove
obstacles affecting safe air traffic flow in the target area. Maintains qualification on assigned
weapons.

5. Skill/Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to
the superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force’s ability to accomplish its
mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training must do their part to plan, manage,
and conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will
ensure each individual receives viable training at appropriate points in their career.
5.1. Apprentice (3) Level. The Combat Control Apprentice attends the ASTC for completion of
5-skill level training objectives. While in the ASTC the apprentice may participate in joint
exercises, contingencies, force projection, and if specifically required, combat and humanitarian
operations. Participates in team combat readiness, continuation, qualification and enlisted
specialty training. Prepares equipment to meet mission requirements including communications
equipment, vehicles, static line parachutes, and other mission equipment. Participates in
training programs to satisfy EST and QT requirements. They will utilize the Career
Development Course (CDC) and Task Qualification Training and work with trainers and mentors
to enhance their knowledge and skills. Once task certified, a trainee may perform the task
unsupervised. Promotion to Airman (AMN) normally occurs within the first year of service and
promotion to Airman First Class (A1C) normally occurs during the second year of service.
Promotion to Senior Airman (SrA) normally occurs between 24 to 36 months service.
5.2. Journeyman (5) Level. The ASTC is designed to finish 5-skill level upgrade training within
a year (must meet minimum time in training requirements IAW AFI 36-2201 Volume 2 prior to
upgrading) and is followed with a PCS or PCA to an operational unit. Five-skill levels will
normally attend an Airman Leadership School (ALS) after assuming the rank of SrA and
completing 48 months of service, upon first reenlistment, or when selected for promotion to Staff
Sergeant (SSgt). Completion of an ALS is mandatory prior to assuming the rank of SSgt. A 5-
level is required for promotion to SSgt. Air National Guard (ANG) may substitute a non-resident
ALS. Promotion to SSgt normally occurs near the five-year point of service. Once individuals
have completed an ALS, they are authorized to supervise personnel. Once upgraded to the 5-
skill level, a journeyman will enter into continuation training to broaden their experience base
and will begin training to 7-skill level tasks. Although a journeyman has been trained and
certified to perform designated tasked unsupervised at the 5- level, he will normally deploy and
operate in the team member capacity. Individuals will use their CDCs to prepare for testing
under the Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS). They should also consider continuing
their education toward a Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) degree.
5.3. Craftsman (7) Level. A craftsman can expect to fill various supervisory and management
positions. A craftsman is the most technically proficient operator and will be expected to deploy
and operate independently as well as in the role of a team leader. Individuals should attend
advanced qualification courses to allow them to operate as a team leader. They will also be
assigned to work in staff positions. 7-skill levels should take courses or obtain added
knowledge on management of resources and personnel. Promotion to Technical Sergeant
(TSgt) normally occurs near the 11-year point of service. Individuals must attend an NCO
                                               10
Academy (NCOA) when selected for or after assuming the rank of TSgt. Promotion to Master
Sergeant (MSgt) normally occurs near the 15-year point of service. Prior to assuming the rank
of MSgt, individuals must complete the NCOA in residence. ANG may substitute a non-resident
NCOA Course. Completion of CCAF degree programs is recommended. Once selected for
MSgt, completion of the SNCOA by correspondence is encouraged.
5.4. Superintendent (9) Level. A 9-skill level can be expected to fill positions of greater
responsibility and should seek additional training in the areas of budget, manpower, resources
and personnel management through continuing education. Promotion to SMSgt normally
occurs near the 20-year point of service. Active duty individuals must complete the Senior
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (SNCOA) in residence prior to assuming the rank of SMSgt.
ANG may substitute the non-resident SNCOA Course.
5.5. Combat Control Manager (0) Level. This individual will be awarded AFSC 1C200 once
selected for Chief Master Sergeant (CMSgt). Promotion to CMSgt normally occurs near the 23-
year point of service.

6. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Combat Control specialty. The
spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet the training requirements. The
strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce duplication of training and eliminate a
disjointed approach to training. The following training decisions were based on a STRT and a
U&TW held at Lackland AFB on 18-21 October 2011 and 19-22 June 2012 respectively and
changes to the 1C1X1 apprentice course beginning in October, 2008. Key training decisions
from the STRT and U&TW involved adding specific line items for landing zone establishment
and landing zone safety officer duties, stress inoculation and resiliency training. It identifies
more stringent fitness progression requirements and developmental water skills training for the
apprentice training pipeline. The 1C1X1 apprentice course will now include tower and radar for
all trainees. The CFM is the authority for waiving any mandatory training requirement(s).
Process waiver requests to the CFM as described in AFI 36-2201, Volume 5.
6.1. Apprentice Training. The apprentice-training pipeline was adjusted to address training
deficiencies. Specifically, progressive rucksack training standards were reduced and
standardized to better prepare trainees for follow-on courses in the pipeline. Fitness standards
were adjusted to provide a science-based progression from the adjusted PAST standards,
effective 1 July 2011, and development water skills were incorporated to ensure trainees are
prepared for ASTC mandatory requirements. Additionally major changes to the Combat Control
Operator Course (ATC Course) were incorporated adding radar to the curriculum. These
changes were driven by the 1C1X1 career field. In the most expeditious manner, the Combat
Control Apprentice pipeline provides: Screening to prepare Combat Control trainees physically
and mentally for the rigors of the training pipeline; Air Traffic Control Training (Combat Control
Operator Courses); Basic jump training (Army Airborne); water survival; helicopter dunker
training; and Combat Survival Training. These qualification courses are mandatory
prerequisites for entry into the AFSC awarding course. The Combat Control Apprentice course
provides individuals with knowledge and hands-on training that prepares them for the ASTC with
apprentice 3-skill level skills.
6.1.1. Apprentice Physical Training. Physical conditioning is a cornerstone of combat
effectiveness. The Combat Control pipeline emphasizes physical training to assure that
apprentice course graduates have the strength and endurance to meet the intense physical
challenges inherent in the 5- level upgrade process and the CCT specialty. Efficient training of
Combat Controllers from course of initial entry (COIE) through Apprentice (3-skill level) and
                                               11
Journeyman (5-skill level) is a complex, multi-command effort. The standards described in table
6.1 and table 6.2 support STS tasks 1.3.4. Physical Training, 1.3.5 Perform Surface Swimming,
and 1.3.6 Perform progressive surface/sub-surface water skill training as these tasks apply to
the apprentice pipeline. Events will be administered in the sequence and manner specified for
PAST test procedures published on the HQ AETC/A3T portal page.

Table 6.1 Apprentice Physical Training Standards

     Event          Push     Sit-    Pull-         Run       Swim            Rucksack         Obstacle
                    -Ups     Ups     Ups                     (5A)                              Course
                      Combat Control Selection Course, Lackland AFB, TX (2 wks)
PAST (1a)            48       48      8     10:10/1.5mi    11:42/500m           N/A             N/A
Exit (1b)            49       50      8     10:10/1.5mi    10:40/500m      80min/4mi (6a)     90% (7)
                       Pipeline Progression for Students Awaiting Training (SAT)
Pipeline SAT (2a)    A/S     A/S    A/S         A/S            A/S              A/S             A/S
                      Combat Control Operator Course, Keesler AFB, MS (15 wks)
Entry (3a)           49       50      8    13:53/2.0 mi    10:40/500m     80 min/4 mi (6a)      N/A
30 Day (3b)          51       54      8    17:37/2.5 mi    19:16/900m     100 min/5mi (6b)      N/A
60 Day (3b)          54       60      9    21:21/3mi      25:36/1200m     140 min/7 mi (6c)     N/A
Exit (3c)            58       65     10      28:54 /4mi   34:00/1500m 200 min/10 mi (6d)      90% (7)
                            Combat Control School, Pope AAF, NC (13 wks)
Entrance (4a)        57       64      9      28:54/4mi    35:00/1500m       200/6 mi (6d)       N/A
Mid (4b)             61       71     11     32:42/4.5mi   33:00/1500m           N/A             N/A
Exit (4c)            64       75     12      36:32/5mi    32:00/1500m 300 min/15 mi (6e)      90% (7)

   (1) Combat Control Selection Course (CCSC) Standards
       a. Assessment: Entry PAST applies to all candidates entering CCT Training; including 2
       x 20m UW; successful completion mandated to start course
       b. Evaluation: Conducted to gauge student progression and determine advancement
       potential.

   (2) Pipeline Progression Student Awaiting Training (SAT) Standards
       a. Assessment: Maintains PT progression accountability with weekly assessments
       against pipeline progression standards

   (3) Combat Control Operator Course Standards
       a. Assessment: Conducted to gauge student progression and determine advancement
       potential in preparation for increasing standards
       b. Evaluation: Conducted to gauge student progression and determine advancement
       potential
       c. Evaluation: Successful completion of progressive standards mandated for graduation

   (4) Combat Control Apprentice Course Standards
       a. Assessment: Conducted to gauge student progression in preparation for increased
       standards
       b. Evaluation: Conducted to gauge progression and determine advancement potential
       c. Evaluation: Successful completion of progressive standards mandated for graduation

   (5) Swim Progression Standards
       a. Swims are conducted with fins using leading arm/trailing arm technique only (PAST is
       freestyle or sidestroke without fins).
                                              12
    (6) Rucksack March Progression Standards
        a. Assessment: Wearing an issued field uniform, boots, and carrying a 45 lb load (30 lb
        rucksack/ 15 lb LCE) or 45 lb rucksack
        b. Assessment: Wearing an issued field uniform, boots, and carrying a 50 lb load (35 lb
        rucksack/ 15 lb LCE)
        c. Evaluation: Wearing an issued field uniform, boots, and carrying a 60 lb load (40 lb
        rucksack/ 20 lb LCE)
        d. Assessment: Wearing an issued field uniform, boots, and carrying a 70 lb load (50 lb
        rucksack/ 20 lb LCE)
        e. Graduation assessment wearing an issued field uniform, boots, and carrying 75lb load
        (50lb rucksack/ 25lb LCE)
    (7) Obstacle Course Progression Standards
        Assessment: Complete 90% of obstacles, wearing an issued field uniform and boots
        Table 6.2 Developmental water skills

Training Event     CCSC (Lackland)            CCOC (Keesler)              CCS (Pope)                 Notes
                   4 x 25m subsurface         5 x 25m subsurface          6 x 25m  subsurface 
Underwaters                                                                                           
                   swims, 2:30 min interval   swims, 2:15 min interval    swims, 2:00 min interval
                                                                                                     All exercises are with 
                                                                                                     simulated or 
                                                                          Conduct 1:00 min 
                   Conduct 1:00 min           Conduct 1:00 min                                       breakable restraints to 
Drown  Proofing                                                           bobbing, 1:00 min float 
                   bobbing, 0:30 min float    bobbing, 1:00 min float                                position hands behind 
                                                                          and 25m travel 
                                                                                                     the back and feet 
                                                                                                     together at the ankles
                                                                                                      Square Knot, Bowline 
                                                                          three knot series on 
Knot tying         single knot on land        two knot series on land                                and Girth Hitch w/ an 
                                                                          land
                                                                                                     extra turn
                                                                                                     Distance is the lateral 
mask and snorkel  recover, don and clear      recover, don and clear      recover, don and clear 
                                                                                                     underwater distance 
recovery          from 0 meters               from 10 meters              from 15 meters
                                                                                                     from mask location
                                                                                                     Mild harassment is 
                                                                          1:30 min w/snorkel, no     defined as heavy 
                   1:00 min w/snorkel,  no    1:30 min w/snorkel, no 
Buddy Breathing                                                           mask and mild              splashing in the 
                   mask or harassment         mask or harassment
                                                                          harassment                 immediate area of the 
                                                                                                     buddy breathing team
                   1:00 min w/hands out of    1:30 min w/hands out of     2:00 min w/hands out 
Treading water                                                                                        
                   water (wrist level)        water (wrist level)         of water (wrist level)

        Note: Developmental water skills training establishes a progressive water skills
        familiarization and development plan to build trainee skills in mandatory tasks for 5-level
        progression. The training is a developmental target, not a graded criterion for the
        apprentice pipeline. Student participation is mandatory and training should be conducted
        in a swimming pool not deeper than 13 feet when possible.

6.2. Five Skill Level Upgrade Requirements. Upon completion of the 3-level pipeline, all
1C231 personnel are assigned to the STTS at Hurlburt Field, FL. For progression to the 5 skill
level all personnel must complete the pre-SCUBA training events listed in table 6.3, Combat
Dive Qualification Training, Military Freefall (Parachutist) training, mandatory Career
Development Courses (CDC), and core and duty position qualification tasks. The ASTC
                                                           13
incorporates this training into a 12 month upgrade training program for award of the 5-skill level.
Individuals in retraining status must complete all mandatory tasks and qualification and a
minimum of 9 months in upgrade training.

Table 6.3. Combat Dive Qualification Training Progression

Event     Under-     Drown-     Underwater      Mask and     Buddy       Equipment     Weight      Tank
          waters     proofing   Knots           Snorkel      Breathing   Recovery      Belt        Tread /
                                                Recovery                               Swim        IWPs
Week 1    6 x 25 m   1 min.     Girth Hitch     10 meter     2:00 Mild   8 lb weight   5 min. w/   1 x 3:00
          2:30       each:      w/ an extra                              belt          8 lbs.      min.
          min.       Bob        turn            (4,a)        (5,a)                                 1 x 2:00
          interval   Float                                               (6,a)         (7,a)       min.
          (1,a)                 :30 sec rest                                                       1 x 1:00
                     25 m                                                                          min.
                     travel     Bowline
                                                                                                   (8,a)
                     5 Bobs     :30 sec rest

                     (2,a)      Square
                                Knot

                                :30 sec rest

                                Girth Hitch
                                w/ extra turn

                                :30 sec rest

                                Bowline

                                (1,a)




                                                        14
Event    Under-     Drown-       Underwater      Mask and     Buddy       Equipment     Weight      Tank
         waters     proofing     Knots           Snorkel      Breathing   Recovery      Belt        Tread /
                                                 Recovery                               Swim        IWPs
Week 2   6 x 25 m   1: 30        Girth Hitch     15 meter     2:00        10 lb         5 min. w/   1 x 5:00
         2:15       min.         w/ an extra                  Moderate    weight belt   10 lbs.     min.
         min.       each:        turn            (4,b)                                              1 x 4:00
         interval   Bob                                       (5, b)      (6, b)        (7, b)      min.
         (1,b)      Float        :30 sec rest                                                       1 x 3:00
                                                                                                    min.
                    50 m         Bowline
                    travel                                                                          (8, b)
                                 :30 sec rest
                    Front flip
                                 Square
                    Reverse      Knot
                    flip
                                 :30 sec rest
                    Mask
                    recovery     Girth Hitch
                                 w/ extra turn
                    Feet Tied
                                 :30 sec rest
                    (2,b)
                                 Bowline

                                 (3,b)




Week 3   6 x 25 m   2:00 min.    Girth Hitch     20 meter     2:00 Full   12 lb         5 min. w/   IWPs / 3:00
         2:00       each:        w/ an extra                              weight belt   12 lbs.     min tread
         min.       Bob          turn            (4, c)       (5, c )
         interval   Float                                                 (6, c)        (7, c)
                                 :30 sec rest                                                       (8, c)
         (1, c)     75 m
                    travel       Bowline

                    Front flip   :30 sec rest

                    Reverse      Square
                    flip         Knot

                    Mask         :30 sec rest
                    recovery
                                 Girth Hitch
                    Hands &      w/ extra turn
                    Feet Tied
                                 :30 sec rest
                    (2, c)
                                 Bowline

                                 (3, c)


                                                         15
Event     Under-     Drown-       Underwater      Mask and   Buddy       Equipment     Weight      Tank
          waters     proofing     Knots           Snorkel    Breathing   Recovery      Belt        Tread /
                                                  Recovery                             Swim        IWPs
Week 4    6 x 25 m   2:00 min.    Girth Hitch     25 meter   2:00 Full   14 lb         5 min. w/   IWPs / 1:00
          1:45       each:        w/ an extra                            weight belt   14 lbs.     min tread
          min.       Bob          turn            (4, d)     (5, d)
          interval   Float                                               (6, d)        (7, d)      (8, d)
                                  :30 sec rest
          (1, d)     100 m
                     travel       Bowline

                     Front flip   :30 sec rest

                     Reverse      Square
                     flip         Knot

                     Mask         :30 sec rest
                     recovery
                                  Girth Hitch
                     Hands &      w/ extra turn
                     Feet Tied
                                  :30 sec rest
                     (2, d)
                                  Bowline

                                  (3, d)

The progressive water skills training in table 6.3 and the notes below are designed to build water
confidence related to the ST mission set and to ensure successful graduation at AFCDC.

   1. Underwaters:
        a. Assessment: Wearing a Mask, students will conduct six (6) underwaters (key hole
           stroke) at a distance of 25 meters, utilizing a 2::30 interval.
        b. Assessment: Wearing a Mask, students will conduct six (6) underwaters (key hole
           stroke) at a distance of 25 meters, utilizing a 2::15 interval.
        c. Assessment: Wearing a Mask, students will conduct six (6) underwaters (key hole
           stroke) at a distance of 25 meters, utilizing a 2::00 interval.
        d. Evaluation: Wearing a Mask, students will conduct six (6) underwaters (key hole
           stroke) at a distance of 25 meters, utilizing a 1::45 interval.

   2. Drown Proofing:
         a. Assessment: Utilizing a mask, the students will bob for 1::00, float for 1::00, travel
            for 25 meters and bob 10 times. Upon completion, the students will practice their
            front flip, back flip and mask recovery bobbing for five consecutive times with the
            mask in their teeth.
         b. Assessment: Utilizing a mask and rope, the students will tie their feet, bob for
            1::30, float for 1::30, travel for 50 meters, bob a maximum of10 times, complete a
            front flip, bob a maximum of 5 times, complete a back flip, bob a maximum of 5
            times, retrieve their mask with their teeth and bob 5 consecutive times.
         c. Assessment: Utilizing a mask and ropes, the students will tie their hands and feet,
            bob for 2::00, float for 2::00, travel for 75 meters, bob a maximum of 10 times,
            complete a front flip, bob a maximum of 5 times, complete a back flip, bob a
                                                       16
          maximum of 5 times, retrieve their mask with their teeth and bob 5 consecutive
          times.
       d. Evaluation: Utilizing a mask and ropes, the students will tie their hands and feet,
          bob for 2::00, float for 2::00, travel for 100 meters, bob a maximum of 10 times,
          complete a front flip, bob a maximum of 5 times, complete a back flip, bob a
          maximum of 5 times, retrieve their mask with their teeth and bob 5 consecutive
          times.

3. Knots:
     a. Assessment: Utilizing a mask and two ropes the students will go subsurface and
          tie the bowline. Once complete the student will return to surface and rest for
          00::30. Next the student will go subsurface and tie the girth hitch with an extra
          turn. The students will the return to the surface and rest for 00::30. Finally, the
          student will go subsurface and will tie the two ropes utilizing the square knot.
     b. Assessment: Utilizing a mask and two ropes the students will go subsurface and
          tie the bowline. Once complete the student will return to surface and rest for
          00::30. Next the student will go subsurface and tie the girth hitch with an extra
          turn. The students will the return to the surface and rest for 00::30. Finally, the
          student will go subsurface and will tie the two ropes utilizing the square knot.
     c. Assessment: Utilizing a mask and two ropes the students will go subsurface and
          tie the bowline. Once complete the student will return to surface and rest for
          00::30. Next the student will go subsurface and tie the girth hitch with an extra
          turn. The students will the return to the surface and rest for 00::30. Finally, the
          student will go subsurface and will tie the two ropes utilizing the square knot.
          Once complete, the students will go subsurface, untie their knots and return to the
          surface to rest for 00::30. Next the students will go subsurface and tie one of the
          first three knots. Once done, the student will return to the surface and rest for
          00::30. Lastly, the student will go subsurface and tie one of the remaining knots
          from the three previously described. When complete, the student will return to the
          surface and rest for 00::30. Once grading is complete, the students will go
          subsurface and untie all remaining ropes and return to the surface where the
          exercise will end.
     d. Evaluation: Utilizing a mask and two ropes the students will go subsurface and tie
          the bowline. Once complete the student will return to surface and rest for 00::30.
          Next the student will go subsurface and tie the girth hitch with an extra turn. The
          students will then return to the surface and rest for 00::30. Finally, the student will
          go subsurface and will tie the two ropes utilizing the square knot. Once complete,
          the students will go subsurface, untie their knots and return to the surface to rest
          for 00::30. Next the students will go subsurface and tie one of the first three knots.
          Once done, the student will return to the surface and rest for 00::30. Lastly, the
          student will go subsurface and tie one of the remaining knots from the three
          previously described. When complete, the student will return to the surface and
          rest for 00::30. Once grading is complete, the students will go subsurface and
          untie all remaining ropes and return to the surface where the exercise will end.




                                             17
4. Mask and Snorkel recovery:
     a. Assessment: Utilizing a mask and snorkel, the students will perform an 10 meter
         underwater, retrieve mask and snorkel, clear their mask at the bottom of the pool
         and perform a controlled ascent to the surface ensuring there are no twist in their
         straps and no water in their mask
     b. Assessment: Utilizing a mask and snorkel, the students will perform an 15 meter
         underwater, retrieve mask and snorkel, clear their mask at the bottom of the pool
         and perform a controlled ascent to the surface ensuring there are no twist in their
         straps and no water in their mask
     c. Assessment: Utilizing a mask and snorkel, the students will perform an 20 meter
         underwater, retrieve mask and snorkel, clear their mask at the bottom of the pool
         and perform a controlled ascent to the surface ensuring there are no twist in their
         straps and no water in their mask
     d. Evaluation: Utilizing a mask and snorkel, the students will perform an 25 meter
         underwater, retrieve mask and snorkel, clear their mask at the bottom of the pool
         and perform a controlled ascent to the surface ensuring there are no twist in their
         straps and no water in their mask

5. Buddy breathing:
     a. Assessment: Utilizing masks, snorkels and two students, the team will breathe off
         of one snorkel, one breath at a time, while maintaining positive control of their
         buddy. The event will last 2::00 with mild stressors consisting of removing mask,
         intense splashing, and frequent grip checks on both buddy teams as well as
         snorkel. No breaths will be taken. Students will remain underwater for the entire
         duration utilizing the snorkel as their only source of air.
     b. Assessment: Utilizing masks, snorkels and two students, the team will breathe off
         of one snorkel, one breath at a time, while maintaining positive control of their
         buddy. The event will last 2::00 with moderate stressors consisting of removing
         mask, intense splashing, and frequent grip checks on buddy teams as well as
         snorkel, dunking the students subsurface not to exceed 5 feet underwater. No
         more than one consecutive breath will be denied from each student before a
         breath is given. Students will remain underwater for the entire duration utilizing the
         snorkel as their only source of air.
     c. Assessment: Utilizing masks, snorkels and two students, the team will breathe off
         of one snorkel, one breath at a time, while maintaining positive control of their
         buddy. The event will last 2::00 with full stressors consisting of removing mask,
         intense splashing, and frequent grip checks on buddy teams as well as snorkel,
         dunking the students subsurface to the pool bottom, shaking, and rolling. No more
         than two consecutive breaths will be denied from each student before a breath is
         given. Students will remain underwater for the entire duration utilizing the snorkel
         as their only source of air.
     d. Evaluation: Utilizing masks, snorkels and two students, the team will breathe off of
         one snorkel, one breath at a time, while maintaining positive control of their buddy.
         The event will last 2::00 with full stressors consisting of removing mask, intense
         splashing, and frequent grip checks on buddy teams as well as snorkel, dunking
         the students subsurface to the pool bottom, shaking, and rolling. No more than
         two consecutive breaths will be denied from each student before a breath is given.


                                            18
          Students will remain underwater for the entire duration utilizing the snorkel as their
          only source of air.

6. Equipment recovery:
      a. Assessment: Utilizing buoyancy compensators (BC’s) mask, 8lb weight belt and
         fins, students will be instructed to push off the wall and begin treading water. On
         the command of ditch your equipment, the students will go subsurface and begin
         to remove their gear in the following order; in the seated position the student will
         remove their fins and place them side by side, lean back and remove their weight
         belt, then remove their mask and place it, face plate down, under their weight belt.
         The students will then ensure that their fins are making two points of contact,
         evenly aligned and the edge of their mask will be parallel with the cups of the fins.
         Once complete, the students will ascend with a controlled ascent. After
         instructors grade the event, the students will be given the command to retrieve
         their gear. Once the command is sent, the students will go subsurface, secure
         their mask, lean back and don their weight belt, place both fins on their feet then
         clear their mask and come to the surface using a controlled ascent. Once on the
         surface the students will immediately fin to the side of the pool for inspection of
         proper donning procedures.
      b. Assessment: Utilizing buoyancy compensators (BC’s) mask, 10lb weight belt and
         fins, students will be instructed to push off the wall and begin treading water. On
         the command of ditch your equipment, the students will go subsurface and begin
         to remove their gear in the following order; in the seated position the student will
         remove their fins and place them side by side, lean back and remove their weight
         belt, then remove their mask and place it, face plate down, under their weight belt.
         The students will then ensure that their fins are making two points of contact,
         evenly aligned and the edge of their mask will be parallel with the cups of the fins.
         Once complete, the students will ascend with a controlled ascent. After
         instructors grade the event, the students will be given the command to retrieve
         their gear. Once the command is sent, the students will go subsurface, secure
         their mask, lean back and don their weight belt, place both fins on their feet then
         clear their mask and come to the surface using a controlled ascent. Once on the
         surface the students will immediately fin to the side of the pool for inspection of
         proper donning procedures.
      c. Assessment: Utilizing buoyancy compensators (BC’s) mask, 12lb weight belt and
         fins, students will be instructed to push off the wall and begin treading water. On
         the command of ditch your equipment, the students will go subsurface and begin
         to remove their gear in the following order; in the seated position the student will
         remove their fins and place them side by side, lean back and remove their weight
         belt, then remove their mask and place it, face plate down, under their weight belt.
         The students will then ensure that their fins are making two points of contact,
         evenly aligned and the edge of their mask will be parallel with the cups of the fins.
         Once complete, the students will ascend with a controlled ascent. After
         instructors grade the event, the students will be given the command to retrieve
         their gear. Once the command is sent, the students will go subsurface, secure
         their mask, lean back and don their weight belt, place both fins on their feet then
         clear their mask and come to the surface using a controlled ascent. Once on the


                                            19
          surface the students will immediately fin to the side of the pool for inspection of
          proper donning procedures.
       d. Evaluation: Utilizing buoyancy compensators (BC’s) mask, 14lb weight belt and
          fins, students will be instructed to push off the wall and begin treading water. On
          the command of ditch your equipment, the students will go subsurface and begin
          to remove their gear in the following order; in the seated position the student will
          remove their fins and place them side by side, lean back and remove their weight
          belt, then remove their mask and place it, face plate down, under their weight belt.
          The students will then ensure that their fins are making two points of contact,
          evenly aligned and the edge of their mask will be parallel with the cups of the fins.
          Once complete, the students will ascend with a controlled ascent. After
          instructors grade the event, the students will be given the command to retrieve
          their gear. Once the command is sent, the students will go subsurface, secure
          their mask, lean back and don their weight belt, place both fins on their feet then
          clear their mask and come to the surface using a controlled ascent. Once on the
          surface the students will immediately fin to the side of the pool for inspection of
          proper donning procedures.

7. Weight Belt Swim:
     a. Assessment: Utilizing buoyancy compensators (BC’s) mask, 8lb weight belt and
         fins, students will swim the circumference of the pool utilizing the lead arm trailing
         arm, or under water recovery strike for duration of 5::00.
     b. Assessment: Utilizing buoyancy compensators (BC’s) mask, 10lb weight belt and
         fins, students will swim the circumference of the pool utilizing the lead arm trailing
         arm, or under water recovery strike for duration of 5::00.
     c. Assessment: Utilizing buoyancy compensators (BC’s) mask, 12lb weight belt and
         fins, students will swim the circumference of the pool utilizing the lead arm trailing
         arm, or under water recovery strike for duration of 5::00.
     d. Evaluation: Utilizing buoyancy compensators (BC’s) mask, 14lb weight belt and
         fins, students will swim the circumference of the pool utilizing the lead arm trailing
         arm, or under water recovery strike for duration of 5::00.

8. Weight belt tread/In Water Proficiency (IWP) Exam:
     a. Assessment: Assessment: Utilizing buoyancy compensators (BC’s) mask, 8lb
         weight belt and fins, students will tread water for three intervals consisting of 3::00,
         2::00, and 1::00 with 1::00 active recovery in between each interval.
     b. Assessment: Assessment: Utilizing buoyancy compensators (BC’s) mask, 10lb
         weight belt and fins, students will tread water for three intervals consisting of 5::00,
         4::00, and 3::00 with 1::00 active recovery in between each interval.
     c. Assessment: Assessment: Utilizing buoyancy compensators (BC’s) mask, 12lb
         weight belt, fins and empty twin 80 tanks, students will perform IWPs as laid out by
         AFCDC, followed by treading water for 3::00.
     d. Evaluation: Utilizing buoyancy compensators (BC’s) mask, 12lb weight belt, fins
         and empty twin 80 tanks, students will perform IWPs as laid out by the Air Force
         Combat Diver Course, followed by treading water for 1::00.




                                             20
6.3. Seven Skill Level Upgrade Requirements. Individuals must be a SSgt, complete all core
and duty position qualification tasks and complete the minimum 12 months in upgrade training
for award of the 7 skill-level. Individuals in retraining status must complete a minimum of 6
months in upgrade training.
6.4. Re-qualification Training. Combat Control personnel returning to the career field and who
have not practiced Combat Control skills for more than five years will complete requalification
training IAW AFI 13-219 Volume I, Combat Control and Special Tactics Officer Training, and
meet the following requirements:
6.4.1. Physical qualification for air traffic controller duty, marine diving duty, and parachuting
duty IAW AFI 48-123, Medical Examination and Standards.
6.4.2. Complete physiological training IAW AFI 11-403, Aerospace Physiological Training.
6.4.3. Eligibility for a secret security clearance IAW AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program
Management.
6.5. Retraining. 3-Skill Level Requirements. Active duty retrainees must attend the CCT
retraining assessment program hosted by the 24 SOW (AFSOC) before entering the CCT 3-skill
level training pipeline. ANG guard retrainees will be assessed through the Prior Service
accession program. Retrainees must attend the 3-skill level resident training course. On a
case-by-case basis, with proper justification, the CFM may waive the skill upgrade experience
times to the previously held skill level, but not the academic requirements for re-trainees.
Process waiver requests in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Volume 5.
6.6 Proficiency Training. Additional knowledge and skill requirements that are not taught
during initial skills or upgrade training are assigned for continuation training. The purpose of the
continuation training program is to provide additional training exceeding minimum upgrade
requirements with emphasis on present and future duty positions.
6.7. Technical Training Instructors:
6.7.1. Combat Control trainees receive extensive technical and employment skills training while
assigned to apprentice, journeyman, and specialty qualification training courses. To
successfully complete these courses, trainees must maintain a high degree of physical fitness.
Combat Control instructors instruct, train, assist, motivate, coach and monitor the trainee’s
academic performance and physical training. Instructors evaluate student physical training to
ensure pipeline progression training success. Instructors operate at the following locations:

       342 TRS, Combat Control Selection Course, JBSA-Lackland, TX
       Det 2, 342 TRS, Air Force Combat Diver Course, NSA Panama City, FL
       OL-C 342 TRS, Combat Control Apprentice Course, Pope Field, NC
       OL-D 342 TRS, Military Freefall Course, Yuma, AZ
       334 TRS Combat Control Operator Course (ATC), Keesler AFB, MS
       Special Tactics Training Squadron, Hurlburt Field, FL
       Det 1, STTS, Special Operations Terminal Attack Control Course (SOTACC), Yuma, AZ

6.7.2. Combat Control technical training instructors are fully qualified Combat Controllers who
maintain minimum operational proficiency (static line/freefall parachuting, demolitions, and dive
 currency). These instructors are responsible to their respective Commanders for the operation
of their Combat Control technical training functions.
6.7.3. The 342 TRS and 334 TRS Commanders are responsible for providing assigned Combat
Control instructors with the facilities and resources to conduct student leadership/management,
conduct/develop progressive physical training (both students and instructors), as well as
providing resources for them to maintain requirements listed in AFI 13-219 Vol I and II.
                                                21
6.7.4. Combat Control technical training instructors must ensure graduating pipeline trainees
are prepared to meet the entry-level requirements for follow-on training courses. Instructors
ensure Combat Control trainees participate in regimented physical training (Table 6.1) while
assigned to the 342 TRS and the 334 TRS.
6.7.5. The Combat Control Selection Course will establish and forward training folders on all
trainees to the Combat Control Operators Course (ATC) who will then in-turn forward folders to
the Combat Control Apprentice Course as students graduate respective courses. These folders
will include, but are not limited to, copies of TDY/PCS orders, aeronautical orders, diplomas,
physical training evaluations, counseling documentation, and AF Form 1042(s). The Combat
Control Apprentice Course will forward all student-training folders to the STTS upon completion
of apprentice training.

7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). CCAF is one of several federally chartered
degree-granting institutions, however, it is the only 2-year institution exclusively serving military
enlisted personnel. The college is regionally accredited through Air University by the
Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) to award
AAS degrees designed for specific Air Force occupational specialties and is the largest multi-
campus community college in the world. Upon completion of basic military training and
assignment to an AF career field, all enlisted personnel are registered in a CCAF degree
program and are afforded the opportunity to obtain an Associate in Applied Science degree. In
order to be awarded, degree requirements must be successfully completed before the student
separates from the Air Force, retires, or is commissioned as an officer. See the CCAF website
for details regarding the AAS degree programs at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/.

7.1. CCAF Degree Requirements. All enlisted airmen are automatically entered into the
CCAF program. Prior to completing an associate degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the
following requirements must be met:



                                                                                      Semester Hours

       Technical Education ...................................................................... 24
       Leadership, Management, and Military Studies .............................. 6
       Physical Education .......................................................................... 4
       General Education ........................................................................ 15
       Program Elective ........................................................................... 15
                                                                                          Total: 64



7.1.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): Completion of the career field apprentice
course satisfies some semester hours of the technical education requirements. A minimum of
24 semester hours of Technical Core subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining
semester hours applied from Technical Core/Technical Elective courses. Some academic
degree programs have specific technical education requirements. Refer to the CCAF General
Catalog for specific degree requirements for your specialty.


                                                               22
7.1.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Enlisted
Professional Military Education (EPME) and/or civilian management courses.

7.1.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of
Basic Military Training.

7.1.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement with
the definitions of applicable General Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF
General Catalog.

7.1.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects/courses,
including natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Six semester hours of
CCAF degree applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be
applied. See the CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science
for this specialty.

7.1.6. Residency Requirement (16 Semester Hours): Satisfied by credit earned for
coursework completed in an affiliated school or through internship credit awarded for
progression in an Air Force occupation specialty. Enlisted members attending Army, Navy,
and/or DOD initial or advanced training do not receive resident credit since these schools are
not part of the CCAF system. However, the college awards proficiency credit to AF enlisted
members completing these courses. Note: Physical education credit awarded for basic military
training is not resident credit.

7.2. Professional Certifications. Certifications assist the professional development of our
Airmen by broadening their knowledge and skills. Additionally, specific certifications may be
award collegiate credit by CCAF and civilian colleges, saving time and Air Force tuition
assistance funds. It also helps airmen to be better prepared for transition to civilian life. To
learn more about professional certifications and certification programs offered by CCAF, visit
http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp. In addition to its associate degree program,
CCAF offers the following certification programs and resources:

7.2.1. CCAF Instructor Certification (CIC) Program. CCAF offers the three-tiered CIC
Program for qualified instructors teaching at CCAF affiliated schools who have demonstrated a
high level of professional accomplishment. The CIC is a professional credential that recognizes
the instructor's extensive faculty development training, education and qualification required to
teach a CCAF course, and formally acknowledges the instructor's practical teaching experience.

7.2.2. CCAF Instructional Systems Development (ISD) Certification Program. CCAF offers
the ISD Certification Program for qualified curriculum developers and managers who are
formally assigned at CCAF affiliated schools to develop and manage CCAF collegiate courses.
The ISD Certification is a professional credential that recognizes the curriculum developer’s or
manager’s extensive training, education, qualifications and experience required to develop and
manage CCAF courses. The certification also recognizes the individual’s ISD qualifications and
experience in planning, developing, implementing and managing instructional systems.



                                                23
 7.2.3. CCAF Professional Manager Certification (PMC). CCAF offers the PMC Program for
qualified Air Force NCO’s. The PMC is a professional credential awarded by CCAF that
formally recognizes an individual’s advanced level of education and experience in leadership
and management, as well as professional accomplishments. The program provides a structured
professional development track that supplements Enlisted Professional Military Education
(EPME) and Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP).

7.2.4. CCAF Credentialing and Education Research Tool (CERT). CCAF implemented
CERT to increase awareness of professional development opportunities applicable to Air Force
occupational specialties. It is a valuable resource for Air Force enlisted personnel and provides
information related to specific AFSCs, such as: AFSC description; civilian occupation
equivalencies (US Department of Labor); CCAF degree programs; national professional
certifications; certifying agencies; and professional organizations.

8. Career Field Path.
8.1. Manpower Table
 TOTAL        CMS     SMS                MSG         TSG           SSG          SRA           AB-A1C
 Authorized    12      19                111         160           203           72             31

8.2. Enlisted Career Path
 EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                          GRADE REQUIREMENTS
 REQUIREMENTS                                    RANK        AVERAGE    EARLIEST    HIGH YEAR OF
                                                              SEW-ON     SEW-ON     TENURE (HYT)
 BASIC MILITARY TRAINING SCHOOL
 APPRENTICE TECHNICAL SCHOOL                     Amn         6 months
 (3-SKILL LEVEL)                                 A1C         16 months
                                                 SrA         28 months      (6 yr enlistee)
 UPGRADE TO JOURNEYMAN
 (5-SKILL LEVEL)                                  A1C
 -   Minimum 12 months OJT. (9 months             SrA          3 years        28 months              8 Years
     retrainees)                                                                 (6 yr
 - Complete CDC 1C251A & 1C251B.                                              enlistees)
 - Complete ASTC Journeyman Course
 AIRMAN LEADERSHIP SCHOOL (ALS)                                              TRAINER
 - Must be a SrA with 48 months time in        - Trainer must be certified on the task, recommended by the
 service or be a SSgt Selectee.                supervisor, appointed in writing by the commander and must attend
 - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for   the formal Air Force Training course
 SSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).
 UPGRADE TO CRAFTSMAN
 (7-SKILL LEVEL)
 - Minimum rank of SSgt.                         SSgt          5 years         3 years              15 Years
 - 12 months OJT. (6 months retrainees)
                                                                          CERTIFIER
                                               IAW the Feb 05 version of AFI 36-2201 para. 7.8.1.3.5, the 1C2
                                               CFM has determined that certifier’s initials are no longer required.
 NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICER
 ACADEMY (NCOA)                                  TSgt         11 years         5 years              20 Years
 - Must be a TSgt or TSgt Selectee.
 - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
 MSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).




                                                        24
USAF SENIOR NCO ACADEMY                       MSgt         17 years   8 years     24 Years
(SNCOA)
- Must be a MSgt.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
SMSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).

                                              SMSgt        21 years   11 years    26 Years
UPGRADE TO SUPERINTENDENT
(9-SKILL LEVEL)
- Minimum rank of SMSgt.

                                              CMSgt        24 years   14 years    30 Years

8.3. Duty Positions and Locations: Combat Controllers operate from Seven CONUS (5
Active and 2 ANG) and two overseas squadrons. The CONUS squadrons are:
               a. 21 STS, Pope Field, NC
               b. 22 STS, JB Lewis-McChord, WA
               c. 23 STS, Hurlburt Fld, FL
               d. 24 STS, Pope Field, NC
               e. 26 STS, Cannon AFB, NM (projected activation 4Q FY 13)
               f. 123 STS, Kentucky ANG, Louisville KY
               g. 125 STS, Oregon ANG, Portland OR

8.3.1. The overseas squadrons are:
              a. 320 STS, Kadena Air Base, Japan
              b. 321 STS, RAF Mildenhall, England.

8.3.2. Each of these squadrons consists of element members, element leaders, flight chiefs,
senior or chief enlisted managers, and unit staff positions.

8.3.3. AETC staff and instructor staff positions are assigned in various locations. They are:
               a. HQ AETC/A3TB, JBSA-Randolph, TX
               b. 2 AF/TTOC, Keesler AFB, MS
               c. 334 TRS, Keesler AFB, MS
               d. 342 TRS/Combat Training Flight (CTF), JBSA-Lackland, TX.
               e. Det 2, 342 TRS, NSA Panama City, FL
               f. OL-C 342 TRS, Pope Field, NC
               g. OL-D 342 TRS, Yuma Proving Grounds, Yuma, AZ
NOTE: 342 TRS/CTF oversees the CCT Selection Course and three geographically separated
units.
8.3.4. The following staff, liaison and instructor positions are located at Hurlburt Field, FL:
               a. HQ AFSOC
               b. 24 Special Operations Wing
               c. 720th Special Tactics Group
               d. 724th Special Tactics Group
               e. Special Tactics Training Squadron
8.3.5. Career Field Manager (CFM), support operations liaisons and instructor positions are
located at:
               a. HQ USAF/Pentagon, Washington DC
               b. HQ USSOCOM, MacDill AFB, FL
                                                      25
                 c.
                  HQ SOCCENT, MacDill AFB, FL
                 d.
                  HQ SOCPAC, Camp Smith, HI
                 e.
                  HQ SOCSOUTH, Homestead AFB, FL
                 f.
                  HQ SOCAFRICA, Stuttgart, GE
                 g.
                  HQ SOCEUR, Stuttgart, GE
                 h.
                  Det 1, STTS, Special Operations Terminal Attack Control Course (SOTACC),
                  Yuma AZ
8.3.6. Special Tactics Recruiter liaison positions are located at:
               a. AFSOTC OL-A, Hill AFB, UT
               b. AFSOTC OL-B, JBSA-Lackland, TX
               c. AFSOTC OL-C, New Cumberland DP, PA
               d. AFSOTC OL-D, Offutt AFB, NE
               e. AFSOTC OL-E, Encino, CA
               f. AFSOTC OL-H, Nashville, TN
               g. AFSOTC OL-I, Syracuse, NY

8.4. Combat Control Progression Path

                                COMBAT CONTROL PROGRESSION PATH


  GRADE                     DUTY              FORMAL TRAINING        PROFESSIONAL        OFF-DUTY
SKILL LEVEL               POSITION(S)                                  MILITARY         EDUCATION
                                                                      EDUCATION
                                                      ASTC
1ST TERM - SRA          Element Member           Combat Diver             ALS                As
    3-LEVEL                                     Military Freefall                       Duty Permits
                                                  5 Level CDC
                                              OJT Upgrade Training
                       Element Member                                     ALS
CAREER - SRA              Supervisor               SOTACC                                    As
  5-LEVEL               AETC Instructor         S/L Jumpmaster           (ANG via       Duty Permits
                      Special Missions Unit                          correspondence)
                       Element Member             ATC Tower
    SSGT                  Supervisor              Certification                             CCAF
   7-LEVEL              AETC Instructor        HALO Jumpmaster            N/A          (recommended)
                        ASTC Instructor         Dive Supervisor
                      Special Missions Unit     Survey Course
                           Unit Staff         Team Leader Course
                            NCOIC
    TSGT                  Supervisor             JTAC Instructor         NCOA               CCAF
   7-LEVEL              AETC Instructor        Stan/Eval Evaluator                     (recommended)
                        ASTC Instructor                                  (ANG via
                      Special Missions Unit                          correspondence)
                           Unit Staff
                      MAJCOM/Group Staff
                                                                         SNCOA
    MSGT                  Section Chief          Joint Spec Ops      Correspondence    Complete CCAF
   7-LEVEL                 Flight Chief       Planning Workshops                           Degree
                        NCOIC, Unit Staff                                 SNCOA        (recommended)
                      Instructor/Supervisor   Rescue Coordination       Residence
                      MAJCOM/Group Staff       Controller Course         (ANG via
                            Joint Staff                              Correspondence)

                                                       26
                    Superintendent
  SMSGT               Squadron                 N/A               JSNCOA               N/A
  9-LEVEL           Superintendent
                 School Commandant
                    Supt, Unit Staff
                 MAJCOM/Group Staff
                      Joint Staff
                      Squadron
   CMSGT            Superintendent             N/A               JSNCOA               N/A
  00-LEVEL       Group Superintendent
                    MAJCOM FAM
                 Career Field Manager



Section C – Skill Level Training Requirements

9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of tasks
and knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for
each skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry,
award and retention of each skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements
are identified in the STS at Part II, Sections A and B of this CFETP.

10. Specialty Qualification:
10.1. Apprentice Level Training:
10.1.1. Specialty Qualification.
10.1.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: Air Traffic Control (ATC), reconnaissance
and airpower control principles and procedures; aircraft flight characteristics; encompassing
tactical airlift and weapons delivery; air and surface firepower systems and effects; International
Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), and military air
regulations; map, aeronautical chart, and publication use; characteristics and use of tactical and
ATC communications systems and equipment, air navigation aids, night vision equipment;
Global Positioning Systems (GPS) and other operational equipment; meteorology principles;
deployment procedures; joint service operation; infiltration techniques; movement and route
selection; Alternate Insertion and Extraction (AIE) methods; parachute procedures and
equipment; small unit tactics; amphibious and scuba operations; small arms/crew served
weaponry qualifications; and destructive demolition applications.
10.1.1.2. Education. Completion of high school is desirable.
10.1.1.3. Training. Completion of the following courses are mandatory for award of AFSC
1C231: (a) Combat Control Selection Course, (b) Combat Control Operator Course (Air Traffic
Control), (c) Airborne (static-line parachute) , (d) Combat Survival,(e) water survival,
(F)helicopter dunker training, (g) Combat Control Apprentice Course. Combat Diver
qualification training and Military Freefall (Parachutist) qualification training are 3-skill level
training requirements that are currently not accomplished until the individuals graduate from
Combat Control School, are awarded their 3-skill level and are assigned to the STTS to attend
the ASTC. All individuals must successfully complete the Combat Diver Qualification Course
and Military Freefall (Parachutist) qualification training to be awarded their 5-skill level.
10.1.1.4. Experience. Not applicable.
10.1.1.5. Other. The following are mandatory as indicated:


                                                27
10.1.1.5.1. For entry, award, and retention of AFSCs 1C211/31, physical qualification for air
traffic controller duty, marine diving duty, and parachute duty according to AFI 48-123, Medical
Examination and Standards.
10.1.1.5.2. For entry, award, and retention of AFSCs 1C211/31qualification to bear firearms
according to AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force By Air Force Personnel, AFI 36-2226,
Combat Arms Training and Maintenance (CATM) and AFI 13-219 Volume I, Combat Control
and Special Tactics Officer Training.
10.1.1.5.3. For entry into this specialty, successful completion of the physical ability and
stamina test (PAST) for NPS Airman and Prior Service Airman. Active duty retrainees must
complete the CCT retraining assessment program and be approved by the AFCFM.
10.1.1.5.4. For award and retention of AFSC 1C231, eligibility for a Secret security clearance
according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Management Program.
10.1.1.5.5. For award and retention of AFSC 1C231, qualification as static line parachutist.
10.1.1.5.6. For award of AFSC 1C231, physical qualification and maintenance of personal
physical standards as defined in Table 6.1 of this CFETP and retention of AFSC 1C231
maintenance of personal physical standards as defined in AFI 13-219 Volume II, Combat
Control and Special Tactics Officer Standards.
10.1.2. Training Sources/Resources. See Paragraph 10.1.1.3.
10.1.3. Implementation. Personnel assigned to the 1C211 AFSC will be enrolled and
complete all mandatory training pipeline courses IAW with paragraph 10.1.1.3. Upon successful
completion of all courses personnel will be awarded the 1C231 AFSC and be assigned to the
STTS for journeyman training.
10.2. Journeyman Level Training:
10.2.1. Specialty Qualification.
10.2.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: Air Traffic Control (ATC), reconnaissance
and airpower control principles and procedures; aircraft flight characteristics; encompassing
tactical airlift and weapons delivery; air and surface firepower systems and effects; International
Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), and military air
regulations; map, aeronautical chart, and publication use; characteristics and use of tactical and
ATC communications systems and equipment, air navigation aids, night vision equipment;
Global Positioning Systems (GPS), UAVs and other operational equipment; meteorology
principles; deployment procedures; joint service operation; infiltration techniques; movement
and route selection; alternate insertion and extraction (AIE) methods; parachute procedures and
equipment; jump master training; small unit tactics; amphibious and scuba operations; small
arms/crew served weaponry qualifications; and destructive demolition applications.
10.2.1.2. Education. Completion of high school is desirable.
10.2.1.3. Training. Completion of CDCs 1C251A and 1C251B and 5-level tasks identified in
Part II of this publication are mandatory for award of the 5-level. Combat Diver qualification
training (LCAZP1XXXX01CA) and Military Freefall Parachutist (L9AZA1XXXX 0F1A) or
equivalent qualification training are 3-skill level training requirements that are currently not
accomplished until the individuals graduate from Combat Control School, are awarded their 3-
skill level and are assigned to the ASTC. All individuals must successfully complete the Combat
Diver Qualification Course and Military Freefall (Parachutist) qualification training to be awarded
their 5-skill level.
10.2.1.4. Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of AFSC 1C251:
10.2.1.4.1. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1C231. Also, experience in
reconnaissance, terminal control, and combat enabling tasks.
10.2.1.5. Other. The following are mandatory as indicated.
                                                28
10.2.1.5.1. For entry, award, and retention of AFSC 1C251, physical qualification for air traffic
controller duty, marine diving duty, and parachute duty according to AFI 48-123.
10.2.1.5.2. For entry, award, and retention of AFSC 1C251, qualification to bear firearms IAW
AFI 31-207, AFI 36-2226 and AFI 13-219 Volume I.
10.2.1.5.3. For award and retention of AFSC 1C251, eligibility for a Secret security clearance
according to AFI 31-501.
10.2.1.5.4. For award and retention of AFSC 1C251:
10.2.1.5.4.1. Qualification as a static line and military freefall parachutist, and as a military scuba
diver.
10.2.1.5.4.2. Physical qualification and maintenance of personal physical standards as defined
in AFI 13-219 Volume II.
10.2.2. Training Sources/Resources. Combat Diver and Military Freefall (Parachutist)
qualification courses. CDCs 1C251A and 1C251B which are administered by ECI. STS tasks
required for qualification of the 5-skill level. The ASTC administered by the STTS. A list of
training courses that support this career field is contained in Part II, Section D of this CFETP.
10.2.3. Implementation. Upon completion of the 1C211 training pipeline and award of the
1C231 AFSC all personnel will be assigned to the STTS, enrolled in the ASTC and entered into
upgrade training for completion of 5-level UGT requirements. Personnel will be awarded the 5-
level upon completion of all requirements IAW paragraph 10.2.1.3 and 10.2.1.5, and other duty
position tasks identified by the supervisor. Members must complete a minimum of 12 months in
UGT, meet all previous identified requirements, be recommended by their supervisor and
approved by their commander. Individuals in retraining status are subject to the same training
requirements and must complete a minimum of 9 months in UGT. Qualification training is
initiated anytime an individual is assigned duties they are not qualified to perform.
10.3. Craftsman Level Training:
10.3.1. Specialty Qualification.
10.3.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: Air Traffic Control (ATC), reconnaissance
and airpower control principles and procedures; aircraft flight characteristics; encompassing
tactical airlift and weapons delivery; air and surface firepower systems and effects; International
Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), and military air
regulations; map, aeronautical chart, and publication use; characteristics and use of tactical and
ATC communications systems and equipment, air navigation aids, night vision equipment;
Global Positioning Systems (GPS) and other operational equipment; meteorology principles;
deployment procedures; joint service operation; infiltration techniques; movement and route
selection; alternate insertion and extraction (AIE) methods; parachute procedures and
equipment; jump master procedures; dive supervisor procedures; small unit tactics; amphibious
and scuba operations; small arms/crew served weaponry qualifications; and destructive
demolition applications.
10.3.1.2. Education. Completion of high school is desirable.
10.3.1.3. Training. Qualification training as a Joint Terminal Attack Controller, Surveyor,
Team Leader, Static Line Parachutist Jumpmaster, Military Freefall Parachutist Jumpmaster,
Dive Supervisor, and UAS operations training provides advanced skills for professional
development, but is not mandatory for skill level upgrade.
10.3.1.4. Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of AFSC 1C271:
10.3.1.4.1. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1C251, experience performing or
supervising duties involving actual air traffic deployment and control, UAS’s and combat control
activities.
10.3.1.5. Other. The following are mandatory as indicated:
                                                  29
10.3.1.5.1. For entry, award, and retention of AFSC 1C271, physical qualification for air traffic
controller duty, marine diving duty, and parachuting duty according to AFI 48-123.
10.3.1.5.2. For entry, award and retention of AFSC 1C271, qualification to bear firearms IAW
AFI 31-117, AFI 36-2226 and AFI 13-219 Volume I.
10.3.1.5.3. For award and retention of AFSC 1C271 eligibility for a Secret security clearance
according to AFI 31-501. Top Secret security clearance eligibility is highly desirable
10.3.1.5.4. For award and retention of AFSC 1C271:
10.3.1.5.4.1. Qualification as a static line and military freefall parachutist, and as a scuba diver.
10.3.1.5.4.2. Physical qualification and maintenance of personal physical standards as defined
in AFI 13-219 Volume II.
10.3.2. Training Sources/Resources. The STS identifies tasks required for qualification of the
7-level. A list of training courses that support this career field is in Part II, Section D of this
CFETP.
10.3.3. Implementation. Be at least a staff sergeant (SSgt), complete mandatory CDCs, core
tasks identified in the CFETP and other duty position tasks identified by the supervisor, meet
mandatory requirements listed in the specialty description in AFECD, complete a minimum of 12
months in training, recommendation by their supervisor and approval by their commander for
award of the 7-skill level. Individuals in retraining status are subject to the same training
requirements and a minimum of 6 months in UGT. Entry is effective 1 September each year if
an individual is selected for SSgt (exception: STEP promotees, retrainees, and ARC
personnel). Qualification training is initiated anytime an individual is assigned duties they are
not qualified to perform.
10.4. Superintendent Level Training:
10.4.1. Specialty Qualification.
10.4.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: Air Traffic Control (ATC), reconnaissance
and airpower control principles and procedures; aircraft flight characteristics; encompassing
tactical airlift and weapons delivery; air and surface firepower systems and effects; International
Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), and military air
regulations; map, aeronautical chart, and publication use; characteristics and use of tactical and
ATC communications systems and equipment, air navigation aids, night vision equipment;
Global Positioning Systems (GPS) and other operational equipment; meteorology principles;
deployment procedures; joint service operation; infiltration techniques; movement and route
selection; AIE methods; parachute procedures and equipment; jump master training; small unit
tactics; amphibious and scuba operations; small arms/crew served weaponry qualifications; and
destructive demolition applications.
10.4.1.2. Education. Personnel will be awarded the 9-level upon completion of the Senior
NCO Academy and SMSgt sew-on.
10.4.1.3. Training. Not applicable.
10.4.1.4. Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:
10.4.1.4.1. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1C271, experience managing actual air
traffic deployment and control, and combat control activities.
10.4.1.5. Other. The following are mandatory as indicated:
10.4.1.5.1. For entry, award, and retention of AFSC 1C291, physical qualification for air traffic
controller duty, marine diving duty, and parachuting duty according to AFI 48-123.
10.4.1.5.2. For entry, award and retention of AFSC 1C291/00, qualification to bear firearms
IAW AFI 31-117, AFI 36-2226 and AFI 13-219 Volume I.
10.4.1.5.3. For entry, award and retention of AFSC 1C291/00, for a Secret security clearance
according to AFI 31-501. Top Secret security clearance eligibility is highly desirable.
                                                 30
10.4.1.5.4. For award and retention of AFSC 1C291/00:
10.4.1.5.4.1. Qualification as a static line and military freefall parachutist, and as a scuba diver.
10.4.1.5.4.2. Physical qualification and maintenance of personal physical standards as defined
in AFI 13-219 Volume II.
10.4.2. Training Sources/Resources. Senior NCO Academy at Gunter Annex, AL or
accredited joint school.
10.4.3. Implementation. Award the 9-level when an individual possesses a 7-level, is an E-8
or higher and has completed the Senior NCO Academy or joint equivalent. Qualification training
is initiated anytime individuals are assigned duties they are not qualified to perform.

Section D -- Resource Constraints

11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints, which preclude
optimal/desired training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost
and manpower. Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement
describing what effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section
are actions required, office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource
constraints will be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

12. Apprentice Level Training:
12.1. Constraints:
12.1.1. Impact:
12.1.2. Resources Required.
12.1.3. Action Required.
12.1.4. OPR/Target Completion Date.

13. Journeyman Level Training:
13.1. Constraints:
13.1.1. Impact.
13.1.2. Resources Required.
13.1.3. Action Required.
13.1.4. OPR/Target Completion Date. .

14. Craftsman Level Training
14.1. Constraints:
14.1.1. Impact.
14.1.2. Resources Required.
14.1.3. Action Required.
14.1.4. OPR/Target Completion Date.




Section E - Transition Training Guide
There are currently no Transition Training Requirements. This area is reserved.



                                                 31
PART II

Section A --- Specialty Training Standard

1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC for 3-skill
level COIE classes beginning 30 September 2014.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, Chapter 5, this STS:
2.1. Lists in column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common tasks,
knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for airman to perform duties in the 3-, 5-,
and 7-skill level. Column 2 (Core Tasks) identifies specialty-wide training requirements.
2.2. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 3 shows the
proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the
task/knowledge and career knowledge provided by the correspondence course. See
CADRE/AFSC/CDC listing maintained by the unit training manager for current CDC listings.
2.3. Provides certification for OJT. Column 4 is used to record completion of tasks and
knowledge training requirements. Use automated training management systems to conduct
technical qualifications if available. Task certification (and initials) is no longer required for
core and critical tasks.
2.4. Qualitative Requirements. The Proficiency Coding System indicates the level of training
and knowledge provided by all resident training courses and career development courses. This
coding system represents the contract between the CFM and the course providers.
2.5. Job Qualification Standard. This becomes a Job Qualification Standard (JQS) for on-
the-job training when placed in AF Form 623, On-The-Job Training Record Folder, and used
according to AFI 36-2201, Chapter 6. For current documentation, decertification, recertification
and transcribing procedures see AFI 36-2201 Chapter 6.
2.5.1. Documentation. Document completion of training. Identify duty position requirements
by circling the subparagraph number or letter next to the task statement. Tasks are trained and
qualified to the go/no go level. Go means the individual can perform the task without assistance
and meet local demands for accuracy, timeliness, and correct use of procedures.
2.5.1.1. Converting from Old Document to new CFETP. For all tasks previously certified
and required in the current duty position, evaluate current qualifications and when verified,
recertify using current date, as completion date and enter trainee’s and trainer’s initials. When
transcribing previous certification for tasks not required in the current duty position, carry
forward only the previous completion date of certification (not the initials of another person). If
and when transcribed tasks become duty position requirements, recertify using standard
certification procedures.
2.6. Training Standard. All tasks required in the current duty position are trained to the Go/No
Go level. Go means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets local
demands for accuracy, timeliness, and correct use of phraseology and procedures. For ATC
training, CCT/1C2X1 will attend the ATC School and use the 1C1X1STS for this portion of their
training
2.7. The CFETP Part II. This is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the
Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are
developed at the USAF Occupational Measurement Squadron by senior NCOs with extensive
practical experience in their career fields. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter
areas judged by test development team members as most appropriate for promotion to higher

                                                32
grades. Questions are based upon study references listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual
responsibilities are in AFI 36-2502. WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard.

3. Recommendations.
3.1. 342 TRS courses: Comments and recommendations are invited concerning quality of
AETC training. Reference this CFETP and address correspondence regarding changes to 37
TRG/DOS, 1225 Trumper Street, JBSA-Lackland, TX 78236-5717. A Customer Service
Information Line (CSIL) has been installed for the supervisor’s convenience to identify graduates
who may have received over or under training on task/knowledge items listed in this training
standard. For quick response to problems, call DSN 473-2918, any time day or night.
3.2. 334 TRS courses: Comments and recommendations are invited concerning the quality of
AETC training. A Customer Service Information Line (CSIL) has been installed for the
supervisor’s convenience. For a quick response to concerns, call our CSIL at DSN 597-4566, or
fax us at DSN 597-3790, or e-mail us at, 81trg-tget@keesler.af.mil. Reference this CTS/STS
and identify the specific area of concern (paragraph, training standard element, etc).


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE

OFFICIAL                                 STEVEN M. SHEPRO, Maj Gen, USAF
                                         Director of Operations




                                               33
PART II
Specialty Training Standard—Task Trainer/Certifying Officials
                                        Name of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)    Initials                   SSN
                                             (Written)
             Printed Name Of Trainer and Certifying Official And Written Initials
                      N/I                                            N/I

                     N/I                                              N/I

                     N/I                                              N/I

                     N/I                                              N/I

                     N/I                                              N/I

                     N/I                                              N/I

                     N/I                                              N/I

                     N/I                                              N/I

                     N/I                                              N/I

                     N/I                                              N/I

                     N/I                                              N/I

                     N/I                                              N/I

                     N/I                                              N/I

                     N/I                                              N/I

                     N/I                                              N/I




                                            34
PART II
Section B-- Combat Control Skills Training Tasks (non-ATC)




                                          35
  1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND              2.     3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM                4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
   TECHNICAL REFERENCES               CORE     USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                                      TASK        INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                             3-Level     5-Level     7-Level            A          B          C         D
                                                                                     TRAINING  TRAINING TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                             COURSE     CDC       UGT       UGT
                                                                                      START   COMPLETED INITIALS     INITIALS
1. EMPLOY DEFENSIVE MEASURES
1.1. Communication Security (COMSEC):
 TR: DODI 5200.1R, AFI 33-201
1.1.1. Security violations          5          B         B         C         -
1.1.2. EEFIs                        5          B         B         C         -
1.1.3. Security precautions         5          B         B         C         -
1.2. Operations Security (OPSEC)
TR: AFI 10-1101
1.2.1. OPSEC                        5          B         B         C
1.2.2. OPSEC to COMSEC              5          B         B         C         -
relationship
1.2.3. OPSEC vulnerabilities        5          B         B         C         -
1.2.4. OPSEC significance of        5          B         B         C         -
unclassified data
1.2.5. Counterintelligence          5          B         B         C         -
responsibilities
1.2.6. Social media vulnerabilities 5          A           -       C         -

1.3. Health, First Aid, Survival, and Resiliency
TR: FM 21-11, FM 21-18, FM 90-44, FM 22-51, FM 6-22.5
1.3.1. Apply First Aid                                                       -
TR: FM 21-11.
1.3.1.1 Tactical Combat Casualty       5       1b     -           3b         -
Care (TCCC)
1.3.1.2 Battlefield Survivability      5       1b     -           3b         -
1.3.1.3. Maintain CPR certification    5        -     -           3b
1.3.2. Perform foot care                       2b     -            -         -
1.3.3. Perform physical training       5       3b     -           3b        3c
1.3.4 Perform surface swimming         5       3b     -           3b         -
1.3.5. Perform progressive             5       1b     -           3b         -
surface/sub-surface water skills
training
1.3.6 Resiliency

1.3.6.1 Stress education              5/7      A         B         B         C

1.3.6.2 Cognitive and behavior        5/7      A         B         B         C
stress management tools
1.3.6.3 Stress Inoculation exposure    5      2b           -      2b         -

1.3.7 Human Performance               5       B         -         C         C
Program Nutrition
1.4. SMALL UNIT TACTICS:
TR: FMs 7-8, 7-9, 7-10, 7-85, 20-3, 21-18, 21-26, 21-31, 21-60, 21-75, 21-76, 23-9, 31-25, 31-70, 90-3, 90-5, 90-6, 90-6-1,
90-10, 90-10-1, 90-13 SH 21-76 (RGR HANDBOOK)
1.4.1. Perform Overland Infiltration and Exfiltration Operations Using:
1.4.1.1. Formations                  5/7      2b        b        3b         3c
1.4.1.2. Defensive fire techniques   5/7      2b        b        3b         3c
1.4.1.3. Immediate Action Drills     5/7      2b        b        3b         3c

                                                      36
  1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND          2.    3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM                4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
   TECHNICAL REFERENCES           CORE     USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                                  TASK       INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                         3-Level     5-Level    7-Level         A           B        C          D
                                                                             TRAINING    TRAINING TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                         COURSE     CDC      UGT      UGT
                                                                              START     COMPLETED INITIALS   INITIALS
1.4.1.4. Live fire day immediate   5/7     2b         -      3b         3c
action drills
1.4.1.5. Live fire night immediate 5/7       -        -      3b         3c
action drills
1.4.1.6. Team member               5/7     2b         b      3b         3c
assignments and responsibilities
1.4.1.7. Arm and hand signals      5/7     2b         b      3b         3c
1.4.1.8. Bivouac and patrol base   5/7     2b         b      3b         3c
duties
1.4.1.9. Camouflage, Cover, and    5/7     2b         b      3b         3c
Concealment
1.4.1.10. Danger Area procedures   5/7     2b         b      3b         3c
1.4.1.11. Field hygiene techniques 5/7     2b         b      3b         3c
1.4.1.12. Night observation        5/7     2b         -      2b         3b
techniques
1.4.1.13. Protective mask          5/7     2b         b      3b         3c
1.4.2 Perform offensive and defensive operations in close combat using:

1.4.2.1 Basic CQB tactics            5              -       2b         -
1.4.2.2 Non-ballistic engagement     5              -       2b         -
tactics
1.4.2.3 Enemy detainment and         5              -       2b         -
control tactics
1.5. Operate in:
1.5.1. Jungle environment            5     A        b        c        -
TR: FM 90-5
1.5.2. Mountain environment          5     A        b        c        -
TR: FM 31-70, 90-6-1,
90-11-1
1.5.3. Desert environment            5     A        b        c        -
TR: FM 90-3
1.5.4. Cold weather environment      5     A        b        c        -
TR: FM 31-70, 31-71
1.5.5. Urban environment             5     A        b        c        -
TR: FM 90-10, 90-10-1
1.5.6. Nuclear, Biological, Chemical 5     A        b       2b        -
environment
TR: FM 3-4, 3-7
1.5.7. Night environment             5     A        b       2b        -
TR: AV156-12510-21
1.6. WEAPONS TRAINING:
TR: AFI 36-2226, AFMAN 91-201, TOs 11W2-9-2-345-1-1, 11W3-4-2-51, 11W3-5-5-1-1, 11W3-4-2-51, TM 11-5855-213-10,
TM 11-5855-297-12 & P, TM 11-5855-301-12 & P, TM 11-5855-238-10, TM 11-5855-238-10-1, TM 11-5855-238-10-1
1.6.1. Handgun:
TR: FM 23-35, TM 9-1005-317-10
Qualify with M9 pistol                    3b
TR: AFI 36-2226, AFMAN 36-2227
Vol 1
1.6.1.1. Perform fundamentals of     5    2b        b       3c        -
fire

                                                  37
 1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND          2.    3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM             4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
  TECHNICAL REFERENCES           CORE     USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                                 TASK       INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                        3-Level     5-Level    7-Level      A           B        C          D
                                                                         TRAINING    TRAINING TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                        COURSE        CDC   UGT    UGT
                                                                          START     COMPLETED INITIALS   INITIALS
1.6.1.2. Perform protective mask    5      b          b     3c      -
firing
1.6.1.3. Perform night firing       5      b          b     3c      -
1.6.1.4. Perform fundamentals of                            b
concealed weapons/low-visibility
firing
1.6.2. Rifle: Special Operations Specific
TR: T.O. 11W3-5-5-42, FM 23-9
Qualify with M-4 Carbine                   3b
TR: AFI 36-2226, AFMAN 36-2227
Vol 1
1.6.2.1. Perform fundamentals of    5      2b         b     3c      -
fire
1.6.2.2. Perform protective mask    5      b          b     3c      -
firing
1.6.2.3. Perform night firing       5      b          b      3c     -
1.6.2.4. Perform fundamentals long                    b     2b/x
range high precision weapon firing
TR: Army FM 23-10, USMC 1-3B
1.6.3. Grenade Launcher:
 TR: FM 23-31; TOs 11W3-9-4-1, 11W3-9-4-2, 11A8-2-1
1.6.3.1. Perform fundamentals of    5       -         b     2b      -
fire
1.6.3.2. Perform protective mask            -         -      -      -
firing
1.6.3.3. Perform night firing               -         -      -      -
1.6.4. Light Machine Gun:
 TR: FM 23-14
1.6.4.1. Perform fundamentals of    5       -         -     2b      -
fire
1.6.4.2. Perform protective mask            -         -      -      -
firing
1.6.4.3. Perform night firing               -         -      -      -
1.6.5. 40MM Crew Served Weapon:
TR: FM 3-22.27
1.6.5.1. Perform fundamentals of    5       -         -     2b      -
fire
1.6.5.2. Perform protective mask            -         -      -      -
firing
1.6.5.3. Perform night Firing               -         -      -      -
1.6.6. .50 Caliber Crew Served Weapon:
TR: FM 3-22.65
1.6.6.1. Perform fundamentals of    5       -         -     2b      -
fire
1.6.6.2. Perform protective mask            -         -      -      -
firing
1.6.6.3. Perform night firing               -         -      -      -
1.6.7. 7.62mm Crew Served Weapon:
TR: TO 11W2-6-5-1, TO 11W2-6-5-2, FM 3-22.68

                                                 38
  1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND         2.    3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM               4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
   TECHNICAL REFERENCES          CORE     USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                                 TASK       INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                        3-Level     5-Level    7-Level        A           B        C          D
                                                                           TRAINING    TRAINING TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                        COURSE    CDC     UGT      UGT
                                                                            START     COMPLETED INITIALS   INITIALS
1.6.7.1. Perform fundamentals of    5        -       -       2b         -
fire
1.6.7.2. Perform protective mask             -       -        -         -
firing
1.6.7.3. Perform night Firing                -       -        -         -
1.6.8. AK (Kalashnikov) Family Weaponry
TR: STP 31-18B34-SM-TG Special Forces Soldier’s Manual and Training Guide for 18B Series
1.6.8.1. Perform fundamentals of             -       -        -         -
fire
1.6.8.2. Perform protective mask             -       -        -         -
firing
1.6.8.3. Perform night firing                -       -        -         -
1.6.9. Hand Grenades:
TR: FM 3-23.30
1.6.9.1. Employ hand grenades               3b       b        -         -
1.6.10. Shoulder fired Rockets:
TR: FM 3-27.37
1.6.10.1. Perform fundamentals of            -       -        b         -
fire
1.6.10.2. Perform protective mask            -       -        -         -
firing
1.6.10.3. Perform night firing               -       -        -         -
1.6.11 60mm Mortar
TR: FM 3-22.90, chap 3
1.6.11.1 Nomenclature, capability,           -       -        b         -
assembly and operation
1.6.11.2 Perform fundamentals of             -       -        -         -
mortar fire
1.6.11. Safeguard, Store, Transport and Safely Handle:
 TR: AFI 31-101
1.6.11.1. Weapons                  5/7      2b       b        b        3c
1.6.11.2. Ammunition               5/7      2b       b        b        3c
1.6.11.3. Explosives               5/7      2b       b        b        3c
2. COMMUNICATIONS, COMPUTERS, TEAM LEADER COMMAND and CONTROL, AND
INTELLIGENCE
2.1. Communications
TR: PRC 117 Pocket Guide, PRC-148/152 Operations Manual, ASTC Student Communications Guide
2.1.1. Operate powered generators            -       -        -         -
2.1.2 Operate PRC-117G              5       2b       b       3b         -
2.1.3 Operate PRC-117F                    -        -        -        -
2.1.4. Operate PRC-138                    -        -        -        -
2.1.5. Operate PRC-150                    -        -        -        -
2.1.6 Operate PRC-152             5       -        B       3b        -
2.1.7 Operate PRC-148             5      2b        b       3b        -
2.1.8 Operate PSC-5D                      -        -        -        -
2.1.9. Operate secure voice       5      2b        b       3b        -
systems
2.1.10. Operate crypto storage    5      2b           b    3b        -
device

                                                 39
  1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND         2.     3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM                  4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
   TECHNICAL REFERENCES          CORE      USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                                 TASK        INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                         3-Level     5-Level    7-Level          A            B        C          D
                                                                              TRAINING     TRAINING TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                         COURSE     CDC     UGT      UGT
                                                                               START      COMPLETED INITIALS   INITIALS
2.1.11. Perform satellite             5      2b        b        3b     -
communications voice
2.1.12. Perform data                  5       -        b        3b     -
communications
2.1.13. Perform Have Quick            5       -        b        2b     -
communications
2.1.14. Operate SINCGARS                      -        -          -    -
2.1.15. Perform Over the Air Rekey    5       -        -        3b     -
(OTAR)
2.1.15 Conduct communications in      5       -        b        2b     -
jamming/EW environment (non-
mounted)
2.2. Team Leader Command and Control
TR: AF Form 1924 Events Log, AF Form 1020 Radio Control Log, STS Operator Checklist
2.2.1. Command and control of         7      B         B          -   3c
personnel
2.2.2. Perform                       5/7     2b        b        3c    4c
personnel/equipment accountability
2.2.3. Safety and security           5/7     B         B         C    D
2.2.4. Debrief and reconstitute      5/7     2b        b        3c    4c
2.2.5. Operate communications         5      b         b        3c     -
nets
2.2.6. Use transmission formats       5      b         b        3c     -
2.3. INTELLIGENCE:
 TR: FM 7-92, 7-93, 17-98, 31-20-5, 34-2-1
2.3.1. Intelligence functions         5      B         -         C     -
2.3.2. Intelligence organizations     5      B         B         C     -
2.3.3. Formulate RFI’s               5/7      b        b        2b    3c
3. MISSION PREPARATION
3.1. Mission Analysis and Planning:
TR: FM 7-93, 7-85, 31-20-5, 7-20, 7-70 AMCI 10-202, Vol 3, 10-204
3.1.1 Conduct Troop Leading          5/7      -        B         B    C
Procedures
3.1.2 Apply principles of MDMP       5/7      -        A         A    B
3.1.3 Perform mission analysis       5/7      b        b        2b    3c
3.1.4 Develop Concept of             5/7     B         B        2b    3c
operations
3.1.5 Complete tasking mission       5/7      -        a        2b    3c
information documents
3.1.6 Develop Mission concept        5/7      -        -         2b   3c
3.1.7 Perform Risk Management        5/7      -        b        2b    3c
(RM)
3.1.8 Prepare warning order          5/7      -        b        2b    3c
3.1.9 Perform detailed planning      5/7     1b        b        2b    3c
3.1.10 Brief operational order       5/7     1b        b         2b   3c
3.1.11 Prepare mission equipment     5/7     1b        b         2b   3c
3.1.12 Perform brief-back            5/7     1b        b         2    3c
3.1.13. Conduct rehearsal and        5/7     1b        b        2b    3c
inspection
3.1.14. Run execution checklist      5/7      -        -         b    3c

                                                  40
  1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND           2.     3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM                   4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
   TECHNICAL REFERENCES            CORE      USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                                   TASK        INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                           3-Level     5-Level    7-Level            A           B         C         D
                                                                                  TRAINING    TRAINING TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                           COURSE     CDC      UGT       UGT
                                                                                   START     COMPLETED INITIALS   INITIALS
3.1.15. Interpret JCEOI             5/7    -          b          b        3c
4. INFILTRATE/EXFILTRATE:
4. 1. Airborne Operations:
 TR: FM 3-21.220, AFMAN 11-420, TO 14D1-2-2
4.1.1. Perform day combat            5    2b          b         3b         -
equipment jump
4.1.2. Perform night combat          5    2b          b         3b         -
equipment jump
4.1.3. Perform day water jump       5/7    -          b         2b        3b
4.1.4. Perform night water jump     5/7    -          b         2b        3b
4.1.5. Perform static line                 -          -          -         -
jumpmaster (JM) duties
4.1.6. Plan and execute JM                 -          -          -         -
Directed (JMD) procedures
4.2. HALO Team Member:
TR: AFMAN 11-411 (ATTP 3-18.11) Special Forces Military Freefall Operations
4.2.1. Perform day jump with         5     -          b         3b         -
combat equipment
4.2.2. Perform night jump with       5     -          b         3b         -
combat equipment
4.2.3. Perform day water jump       5/7    -          b         2b        3b
4.2.4. Perform night water jump     5/7    -          b         2b        3b
4.2.5. Perform day jump with        5/7    -          b        2b-        3b
combat equipment/02
4.2.6. Perform night jump with      5/7    -          b        2b-        3b
combat equipment/02
4.3. Military Free Fall Jumpmaster:
TR: AFMAN 11-411 (ATTP 3-18.11) Special Forces Military Freefall Operations
4.3.1. Perform JM Duties                   -          -          -         -
4.4. HAHO Team Member:
TR: AFMAN 11-411 (ATTP 3-18.11) Special Forces Military Freefall Operations
4.4.1. Perform day jump with               -          -          -         -
combat equipment/02
4.4.2. Perform night jump with               -          -           -         -
combat equipment/02
4.5. HAHO Navigator:
TR: AFMAN 11-411 (ATTP 3-18.11) Special Forces Military Freefall
Operations
4.5.1. Perform NAV duties on day             -          -           -         -
HAHO operation
4.5.2. Perform NAV duties on night           -          -           -         -
HAHO operation
4.6.Advanced MFF Qualifications:
TR: United States Parachute Association (USPA) training and certification standards, AFMAN 11-411 (ATTP 3-18.11) Special
Forces Military Freefall Operations
4.6.1. Tandem Master                         -          -           -         -
4.6.2. Camera mounted                        -          -           -         -
operations
4.6.3. AFF JM duties                         -          -           -         -


                                                    41
  1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND          2.        3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM             4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
   TECHNICAL REFERENCES           CORE         USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                                  TASK           INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                             3-Level     5-Level    7-Level      A           B        C          D
                                                                              TRAINING    TRAINING TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                             COURSE    CDC     UGT    UGT
                                                                               START     COMPLETED INITIALS   INITIALS
4.6.4. AFF instructor duties                   -           -    -      -
4.6.5. MFF instructor                          -           -    -      -
4.6.6. Dissimilar operations                   -           -    -      -
4.6.7 Utilize NVGs for parachute               -           -    b      -
operations
4.7. Rig, Load, and Secure Water Craft on:
TR: TO 13C7-51-21
4.7.1. RAMZ                                    -           -   1a      -
4.7.2. T-Duck                                  -           -    -      -
4.7.3. Hard Duck                           -               -    -      -
4.7.4. SOF- Duck                           -               -    -      -
4.7.5. K-Duck                              -               -    -      -
4.7.6 ARC                                  -               -    -      -
4.8. Employ Water Craft:
TR: STS Operator Checklist, SOCOM M 350-4 V2
4.8.1. RAMZ                          5        -         b      2b      -
4.8.2. T-Duck                                 -        b        -      -
4.8.3. Hard Duck                              -        b        -      -
4.8.4. K-Duck                                 -        b        -      -
4.8.5. SOF-Duck                               -        b        -      -
4.8.6 ARC                                     -         -       -      -
4.9. Perform Helocast:
TR: FM 31-20-5, STS Operator Checklist
4.9.1. Day helocast                           -        b        -      -
4.9.2. Night helocast                         -        b        -      -
4.9.3. Cast-Master duties                     -        b        -      -
4.10. Perform Alternate Insertion/Extraction (AIE) Methods
TR: AFI 16-1202, STS Operator Checklist, SOCOM M 350-6
4.10.1. Caving ladder                        2b         b      3b      -
4.10.2. Rope ladder                           -         -       -      -
4.10.3. Day land hoist                        -        -b       -      -
4.10.4. Day water hoist                       -        b        -      -
4.10.5. Night land hoist                      -        b        -      -
4.10.6. Night water hoist                     -        b        -      -
4.10.7. Tower fast-rope              5       2b         -      3b      -
4.10.8. Day helo fast-rope           5       2b         b      3b      -
insertion
4.10.9. Night helo fast-rope         5        b         b      3b      -
insertion
4.10.10. Day equipment helo fast-    5        b         b      3b      -
rope insertion
4.10.11. Night equipment helo fast-  5        b         b      3b      -
rope insertion
4.10.12. FRIES extraction                     b         -       -      -
4.10.13. FRIES-Master duties                  -         -       -      -
4.10.14. Tower rappel                5       2b         -      3b
4.10.15. Helo rappel                 5        -        b       3b
4.10.16. Rappel master duties                 -         -       -

                                                      42
  1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND               2.    3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM             4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
   TECHNICAL REFERENCES                CORE     USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                                       TASK       INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                              3-Level     5-Level    7-Level      A           B        C          D
                                                                               TRAINING    TRAINING TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                              COURSE    CDC     UGT    UGT
                                                                                START     COMPLETED INITIALS   INITIALS
4.11. Perform Combat Diver Operations:
TR: LCAZP1XXXX-0D0A, AF Combat Dive Course
4.11.1. Day open circuit dive     5     -                   b   3b      -
4.11.2. Night open circuit dive         5       -           b   3b      -
4.11.3. Day closed circuit dive         5       -           -   2b      -
4.11.4. Night closed circuit dive       5       -           -   2b      -
4.11.5. Day search dive                 5       -           b   3b      -
4.11.6. Night search dive                       -           b    -      -
4.11.7. Dive supervisor open circuit            -           -    -      -

4.11.8. Dive supervisor closed                  -           -    -      -
circuit
4.11.9. Prepare equipment for day  5            -           b   3b      -
amphibious ops
4.11.10. Prepare equipment for     5            -           b   3b      -
night amphibious ops
4.12. Perform Small Boat Operations
TR: SOCOM M350-4 V2
4.12.1. Open water CRRC            5            -           b   3b      -
4.12.2 ARC                                      -           -    -      -
4.12.3. Kayak/Canoe                             -           -    -      -
4.12.4. Rigid hull                              -           -    -      -
4.13. Perform Small Boat Navigation
during:
TR: FM 90-13, FM 3-05.212
4.13.1. Over the horizon operations             -           -    -      -

4.13.2. Riverine operations                     -           -    -      -
4.13.3. Inter-coastal operations                -           -    -      -
4.14. Perform Tactical Airland Operations
TR: AFI 13-217, STS Operator Checklist
4.14.1. Day rotary wing infil and      5        b           b   3b      -
exfil
4.14.2. Night rotary wing infil and    5        b           b   3b      -
exfil
4.14.3. Day fixed wing infil and exfil 5        b           b   3b      -

4.14.4. Night fixed wing infil and   5       b        b       3b        -
exfil
4.15. Perform All terrain Vehicle (ATV) Operations (SOCOM specific)
TR: FM 31-23, STS Operator Checklist NOTE: Use specific manufacturers operating manual
4.15.1. Motorcycle familiarization   5       -        -       3b        -
and operator maintenance
4.15.2. Motorcycle off-road night    5       -        -       3b        -
4.15.3. Night motorcycle aviation    5       -        b       3b        -
environment (Including RAPIDS)
4.15.4. ATV familiarization and      5       -        -       3b        -
operator maintenance

                                                       43
 1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND        2.    3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM             4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
  TECHNICAL REFERENCES         CORE     USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                               TASK       INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                      3-Level     5-Level    7-Level      A           B        C          D
                                                                       TRAINING    TRAINING TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                      COURSE    CDC    UGT      UGT
                                                                        START     COMPLETED INITIALS   INITIALS
4.15.5. ATV off-road night          5       -     -      3b        -
4.15.6. Night ATV aviation          5       -     b      3b        -
environment (Including RAPIDS)
4.15.7. multi person ATV            5       -     -      3b        -
familiarization and operator
maintenance
4.15.8. Multi-person ATV off-road   5       -     -      3b        -         -
night
4.15.9. Night multi-person ATV      5       -     b      3b        -         -
aviation environment (Including
RAPIDS)
4.16. Perform Tactical Vehicle Operations
TR: Snowmobile Manufacturer’s Manual,
4.16.1. Night HUMMV aviation        5       -     b      3b        -
environment (Including RAPIDS)
4.16.2. Snowmobile                          -     -       -        -
familiarization/operation
4.16.3. Day snowmobile aviation             -     -       -        -
environment (Including RAPIDS)
4.16.4. Snowmobiles overland                -     -       -        -
infiltration
4.16.5 Armored vehicle              5       -     -      3b        -
familiarization and operator
maintenance
4.16.6 Armored vehicle on/off road  5       -     -      3b        -
movement day and night
4.16.7 Armored vehicle in an        5       -     -      3b        -
aviation environment
4.16.2 Tactical Convoy Operations
TR: AFTTP(I): 3-2.58, Handbook No. 04-5, USSOCOM Combat Convoy Handbook, Handbook No 04-27, USSOCOM Convoy
Leader Training Handbook;
4.16.2.1 Convoy Operation           5             B      1b       2b
CONOPS/planning
4.16.2.2 Perform tactical Convoy    5             b      2b        -
Operations
4.16.2.3 Establish Blocking         5             b      2b        -
Positions
4.16.2.4 Perform Mount/Dismount     5             b      2b        -
drills
4.16.2.5 Perform disabled vehicle
drills                              5             b      2b        -
4.16.2.6 Perform Immediate Action   5             b      2b        -
Drills
4.16.2.7 Mounted Communications     5             b      2b        -
techniques
4.16.2.8 Conduct communications     5             b      2b        -
in a jamming/EW environment
(mounted)
4.16.2.9 Identify Crew Position     5             b       b        c
Responsibilities
4.17. Perform Land Navigation Using:

                                               44
 1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND          2.    3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM             4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
  TECHNICAL REFERENCES           CORE     USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                                 TASK       INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                        3-Level     5-Level    7-Level      A           B        C          D
                                                                         TRAINING    TRAINING TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                        COURSE     CDC      UGT   UGT
                                                                          START     COMPLETED INITIALS   INITIALS
TR: FM 3-25.26, NOTE: Use applicable GPS operator manuals
4.17.1. Maps and grid systems        5    2b        B       3b     -
4.17.2. Magnetic compass             5    2b        B       3b     -
4.17.3. Aerial photo and imagery     5    2b        B       3b     -
4.17.4. GPS navigation with PSN-     5    2b        B       3b     -
13 (DAGR)
4.17.5. Computer assisted            5     -        -       2b     -
navigation techniques Falcon View
or equivalent
5. TERMINAL CONTROL
5.1. Use NAVAIDS
TR: STS Operator Checklist
5.1.1. TACAN                         5    2b        B       3b     -
5.1.2. Beacons                       5     b        B       3b     -
5.2. Drop Zone (DZ)
TR: AFI 13-217, AFSOCI 13-217
5.2.1. Assess drop zone              5    2b        B       3b     -
5.2.2. Use electronic and visual     5    2b        B       3b     -
markings
5.2.3. Coordinate and Control        5    2b        B       3b     -
5.2.4. Support requirements          5     B        B       C      -
5.2.5. Wind criteria                 5     B        B       C      -
5.2.6. Drop altitude                 5     B        B       C      -
5.2.7. Compute and mark Ground       5     b        b       3b     -
Marked Release points (GMRS)
5.2.8. Perform verbally initiated    5    __        b       2b     -
release system
5.2.9. Score air drops               5     b        b       3b     -
5.2.10. Determine mean effective     5    2b        b       3b     -
wind
5.3. Assault Landing Zone (LZ):
5.3.1. Landing Zone Establishment
TR: AFI 13-217
5.3.1.1. Establish day amp 1        5/7   2b        b       3c    4c
markings
5.3.1.2 Establish Night amp 1
marking                             5/7   2b        b       3c    4c
5.3.1.3. Identify day amp 2-4       5/7    c        b       3c    4c
markings
5.3.1.4. Establish night amp 2-4    5/7    c        b       3c    4c
markings
5.3.1.5. Determine night taxiway    5/7    b        b        C    4c
markings
5.3.1.6 Determine placement         5/7    -        b       2b    4c
location for beacons and TACAN
5.3.1.7. Determine control point    5/7    -        b       2b    4c
location
5.3.1.8. Determine runway           5/7    -        b        B    4c
condition reading (RCR)
5.3.1.9. Determine rolling friction 5/7    -        b        B    4c

                                                 45
  1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND            2.     3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM             4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
   TECHNICAL REFERENCES             CORE      USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                                    TASK        INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                            3-Level     5-Level    7-Level      A           B        C          D
                                                                             TRAINING    TRAINING TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                            COURSE    CDC     UGT    UGT
                                                                              START     COMPLETED INITIALS   INITIALS
factor (RFF)
5.3.1.10. Relay RFF to appropriate    5/7     -           b    B      4c
agencies and aircraft
5.3.1.11. Runway crossing point       5/7     b           b    C      d
duties
5.3.2. Landing Zone Criteria/Operations
TR: AFI 13-217
5.3.2.1. Determine glide slope         7      A           -   2b      4c
5.3.2.2. Determine clear zone          7      A           b   2b      4c
requirements
5.3.2.3. Determine graded area         7      A           b   2b      4c
requirements
5.3.2.4 Determine maintained area      7      A           b   2b      4c
requirements
5.3.2.5. Determine LZ surface         5/7     A           b   2b      4c
requirements
5.3.2.6. Determine shoulder            7     1a           b   2b      4c
requirements
5.3.2.7. Determine overrun             7     1a           b   2b      4c
requirements
5.3.2.8. Determine rutting             7      -           b   2b      4c
conditions
5.3.2.9. Determine stabilized layer    7      -           -    -      4c
fractures
5.3.2.10. Determine jet blast          7      -           -    -      4c
erosion conditions
5.3.2.11. Determine dust conditions    7      -           -   2b      4c
5.3.2.12. Determine loose              7      -           -    -      4c
aggregate severity levels
5.3.2.13. Determine accidental         7      -           -    -      4c
potential zone (APZ) requirements
5.3.2.14. Determine exclusion zone     7      -           -    -      4c
requirements
5.3.2.15. Determine taxiway            7      -           -    -      4c
requirements
5.3.2.16. Determine parking apron      7      -           b    -      4c
requirements and Max On Ground
(MOG) capacity
5.3.2.17. Determine weight bearing     7      -           -    -      4c
capacity per layer on a soil strength
profile
5.3.2.18. Determine number of          7      -           -    -      4c
passes allowed per layer on a soil
strength profile
5.3.2.19. Determine controlling        7      -           b    -      4c
agency procedures
5.3.2.20. Establish no                 7      -           -    -      4c
communication procedures
5.3.2.21. Identify support             7      -           b    -      4c
requirements
5.3.2.22. Determine off-load           7      -           -    -      4c

                                                     46
  1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND         2.     3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM             4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
   TECHNICAL REFERENCES          CORE      USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                                 TASK        INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                         3-Level     5-Level    7-Level      A           B        C          D
                                                                          TRAINING    TRAINING TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                         COURSE    CDC   UGT      UGT
                                                                           START     COMPLETED INITIALS   INITIALS
capabilities
5.3.2.23. Manage/monitor LZ           7      -       -    2b       4c
operations
5.3.2.24. Identify Potential weak     7      -       -     -       4c
areas
5.3.2.25. Transmit ATC artillery      5     b        b    3b       -
advisories
5.3.2.26. Identify STOL/NSAv          7              B     B       3c
characteristics and LZ criteria
5.4. Helicopter Landing Zone (HLZ):
TR: AFI 13-217
5.4.1. Assess HLZs                    5    2b        b    3b       -
5.4.2. Use electronic and visual      5    2b        b    3b       -
markings
5.4.3. Control HLZ operations         5     B        b    2b       -
5.4.3.1 Control Hot/Cold              5     b        b    2b
Infills/exfills
5.5. Forward Area Refueling Point (FARP) Sites:
TR: AFI 11-235, AFSOCR 55-12, STS Operator Checklist
5.5.1. Assess FARP Sites               7       -     b     -       3c
5.5.2 Use electronic and visual        5       -     b    2b        -
markings
5.5.3. Monitor FARP operations        5/7      -     b    2b       3c
5.5.4. Support requirements            7       -     b     -       3c
5.5.5. Perform emergency              5/7      -     b     -       3c
procedures
5.6. Perform Aircraft Marshaling Techniques:
TR: AFI 11-218
5.6.1. Day marshaling                 5     2b       b    3b       -
5.6.2. Night marshaling               5     2b       b    3b       -
5.6.3. Marshaling using night vision  5      -       b    3b       -
devices
5.6.4. Aircraft capabilities and      5      -       B     C       -
characteristics
5.7 Assault Zone Emergency Procedures
TR: AFI 13-217
5.7.1 Manage DZ emergency             5      b       b    3b       -
operations
5.7.2 Manage LZ emergency             7      -       -     -       4c
operations
5.7.3 Manage HLZ emergency            5      b       b    3b       -
operations
5.7.4 Manage FARP emergency          5/7     -       b    2b       3c
operations
5.7.5 Report and document            5/7     -       b    3b       4c
emergencies and flight incidents
5.8. DEMOLITION/EXPLOSIVES:
TR: FM 5-34, 5-250, TOs 11A-1411A-1-66
5.8.1. Prepare, calculate, and place  5     2b       b     3b      -
non-electric explosives


                                                  47
  1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND           2.     3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM                  4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
   TECHNICAL REFERENCES            CORE      USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                                   TASK        INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                           3-Level     5-Level    7-Level           A           B         C         D
                                                                                 TRAINING    TRAINING TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                           COURSE     CDC      UGT      UGT
                                                                                  START     COMPLETED INITIALS   INITIALS
5.8.2. Prepare non-electric firing     5       2b       b           3b       -
systems and priming site
operations
5.8.3. Prepare electric firing                 2b       b            -       -
systems and priming site
operations
5.8.4. Employ smoke grenades           5       2b       b          3b        -
5.8.5. Employ pyrotechnics             5        -       a          3b        -
5.8.6 Breeching TTPs                   5        -       -           b
5.9. FIRE SUPPORT OPERATIONS:
5.9.1. Supporting Arms (Artillery/Naval Surface Fire Support)
TR: AFI 13-112 Vol II, FM 90-26, 55-130, MCM 3-1 VOL I, III, & VIII, JCS Pub 3-09-3
5.9.1.1. Capabilities and limitations          -        B            B       -
5.9.1.2. Coordinate                            -        b           B        -
5.9.1.3. Plan                                   -       b           B        -
5.9.1.4. Execute                                -       b          2b        -
5.9.2. Fighter/Bomber Strikes
TR: AFI 13-112 Vol I & II
5.9.2.1. Capabilities and limitations          -        B            -       -
5.9.2.2. Coordinate                            -        b            -       -
5.9.2.3. Employ                                -        b            -       -
5.9.2.4. Execute                               -        b            -       -
5.9.3. AC-130 Gunship Fires
TR: AFTTP 3-1 Vol 31, STS Operator Checklist
5.9.3.1. Capabilities and limitations 5        B        B           C        -
5.9.3.2. Coordinate                   5        -        b            B       -
5.9.3.3. Plan                         5         -       b          3b        -
5.9.3.4. Execute                      5         -       b          3b        -
5.9.4. Rotary Wing Fires
TR: AFI 13-102 Vol I & II
5.9.4.1. Capabilities and limitations 5        B        B           C        -
5.9.4.2. Coordinate                   5        -        b            B       -
5.9.4.3. Plan                         5         -       b          3b        -
5.9.4.4. Execute                      5         -       b          3b        -
5.9.5. Marking Equipment
TR: AFI 13-102 Vol I & II, STS Operator Checklist NOTE: Use applicable
manufacturer operating manuals where required
5.9.5.1. Targeting lasers                      -        B            -       -
5.9.5.2. Use Infrared (IR) laser      5         -       b          3b        -
pointer
5.9.5.3. Employ visual markings       5        -        b          3b        -
5.9.5.4. Operate beacons              5         -       b          3b        -
5.9.5.5. Laser safety                 5        -        B           B        -
5.9.5.6. Employ computer assisted               -       -            -       -
targeting techniques
5.9.6 ISR Platform Capabilities
   TR: AFI 13-102 Vol I & II, STS Operator Checklist NOTE: Use applicable manufacturer operating manuals where required
5.9.6.1. Capabilities and limitations 5        -        B           B        -



                                                    48
  1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND          2.     3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM                  4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
   TECHNICAL REFERENCES           CORE      USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                                  TASK        INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                          3-Level     5-Level    7-Level           A           B        C          D
                                                                                TRAINING    TRAINING TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                          COURSE     CDC      UGT      UGT
                                                                                 START     COMPLETED INITIALS   INITIALS
5.9.6.2. Coordinate                  -       -          -       -        -

5.9.6.3. Plan                        -       -          -       -        -

5.9.6.4. Employ                      5        -                  b
5.9.6.5 Employ FMV equipment          -       -        -         -        -
6.1. Weather (WX)
TR: TAMS/Kestrel
6.1.1. Perform limited WX            5       b        b         3b        -
observations
6.1.2. Use portable WX system(s)     5        -       b         2b        -
6.2. Survey:
TR: AFI 13-217
6.2.1. Use survey references        5/7       -       b         2b       3c
6.2.2. Calculate distances and      5/7       -       b         2b       3c
angles using survey formulas
6.2.3. Complete survey forms and    5/7       -       b         2b       3c
formats
6.2.4. Use computer drawing          7        -        -         -       2b
techniques
6.2.5. Conduct LZ Survey            5/7       -        -        2b       3c
6.2.6. Conduct DZ Survey            5/7       -       b         2b       3c
6.2.7. Conduct tactical DZ survey   5/7       -       b         2b       3c
6.2.8. Conduct helicopter LZ        5/7       -       b         2b       3c
Survey
6.2.9.Conduct FARP Survey            7        -        -         -       3c
6.2.10. Survey limitations and      5/7       -       B         B        3c
waivers
6.2.11.Calculate California bearing 5/7       -       B         2b       3c
ratio
6.3. Use Survey Data Collection Equipment
TR: STS Operator checklist NOTE: Use specific equipment operating manuals provided by manufacturer
6.3.1. Runway Weight Bearing        5/7       -       b         2b       3c
Measuring Equipment
6.3.2. Trimble                       7        -       -b         -       2b
6.3.3. Distance measurement tools    5        -       b          3b       -
and equipment
6.3.4. Angular Measurement Tools     5        -       b          3b       -
and Equipment
6.3.5. Global Positioning Systems    5        -       b          3b       -
in surveying
6.3.6. Cameras in completing                  -        -         -        -
surveys
6.3.7 Electronic mapping, imagery             -        -         -        -
and standoff observation tools
6.4. SPECIAL RECONNAISSANCE
TR: FM 3-05.204, Ranger Handbook, Ranger R/S
Leaders Course, NSWC Scout Course, USMC
Amphibious Ground Reconnaissance Patrolling
Course


                                                   49
  1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                2.    3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM             4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
   TECHNICAL REFERENCES                 CORE     USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                                        TASK       INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                               3-Level     5-Level    7-Level      A           B        C          D
                                                                                TRAINING    TRAINING TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                               COURSE    CDC     UGT    UGT
                                                                                 START     COMPLETED INITIALS   INITIALS
6.4.1. Report battlefield information    5       b           b   3b      -
(SALUTE)
Report Battlefield Damage                5       b           b   3b
Assessment (BDA)
6.4.2. Fundamentals of information       5       -       B        B      -
collection
6.4.3. Reconnaissance and                5       -       B        B      -
surveillance tactics, techniques,
and procedures
6.4.4. Perform reconnaissance and        5       -           b   3b      -
surveillance missions
6.4.5. Select surveillance               5       -           b   3b      -
observation point
6.4.6. Complete reconnaissance           5       -           b   2b      -
sketches
6.4.7. Use reconnaissance and            5       -           -   3b      -
surveillance equipment
6.4.8. Perform concealed                 5       -           -   3b      -
movement
6.4.9. Small Unmanned Aerial                     -           -    -      -
Vehicle (SUAS)
6.4.10. Computer assisted                5       -           -   3b      -
reconnaissance and surveillance
techniques
7. RECOVERY OPERATIONS
TR: Joint Pub 3-50
7.1. Fundamentals of Personnel           5       -       A        B      -
Recovery (PR)
7.2. Perform Combat Search and           5       -           b   2b      -
Rescue (CSAR)
7.3 Perform SAR Security Team            5       -           b   2b      -
(SST) duties
7.4. Use Extrication Equipment                   -           -    -      -

8. Irregular Warfare
TR: JTTP 3-07.1, Joint Special Operations University
8.1. Cultural, Environmental,                  -             -    -      -
Political, and Economical dynamics

8.2. Cross-cultural communications               -           -    -      -
8.3 Regional familiarization                     -           -    -      -
8.4 Advanced Force Operations                    -           -    -      -
8.5 ASO                                  5       -           -   2b/x
8.5 COIN                                         -           -    -
8.6. Foreign Internal Defense (FID)              -           -    -      -
9. SUPERVISION:
TR: AFI 36-3208, 36-2907
9.1. CCT history                         5       B       B        -       -
9.2. Orient new personnel                7       -       -        -      3c



                                                        50
  1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND          2.    3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM                   4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
   TECHNICAL REFERENCES           CORE     USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                                  TASK       INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                         3-Level     5-Level    7-Level            A           B        C          D
                                                                              TRAINING      TRAINING TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                         COURSE     CDC      UGT      UGT
                                                                               START       COMPLETED INITIALS   INITIALS
9.3. Plan work assignments and         7   -         -         -       3c
priorities
9.4. Schedule duty assignment          7   -        -          -       3c
9.5. Utilize forms and reports         7   -        -          -       3c
9.6. Evaluate subordinates work        7   -         -         -       3c
performance
9.7. Resolve technical problems for    7   -         -         -       3c
subordinate personnel
9.8. Counsel personnel and resolve     7   -         -         -       3c
individual problems
9.9. Initiate action to correct        7   -         -         -       3c
substandard performance by
personnel
10. TRAINING:
TR: AFMAN 36-2234, AFI 36-2201, AFI 13-203, AFI 13-217, AFI 13-219, AFI 36-2101,
AFSOCI 36-2204, AFSOCI 60-101
10.1. Maintain training records       5/7  -        -         1a       3c
10.2. Evaluate personnel to            7   -         -         -       3c
determine training needs
10.3. Plan training and supervise      7   -         -         -       3c
OJT
10.4. Prepare job qualification        7   -         -         -       3c
standards
10.5. Conduct training                 7   -        -          -       3c
10.6. Counsel trainees on their        7   -         -         -       3c
progress and record
10.7. Monitor effectiveness of         7   -         -         -       3c
training
10.8. Monitor career knowledge         7   -         -         -       3c
upgrade
10.9. Monitor job proficiency          7   -         -         -       3c
upgrade
10.10. Monitor qualification training  7   -        -          -       3c
10.11. Evaluate training programs      7   -         -         -       3c
effectiveness
10.12. Recommend personnel for         7   -         -         -       3c
training




                                                  51
PART II
Section C -- Air Traffic Control Training Tasks

Note: Line items in section C are intended to match the 1C1X1 STS, 3-level column tasks are
taught in the Combat Control Operator Course




                                              52
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND               2.    3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM             4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
 TECHNICAL REFERENCES                CORE     USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                                     TASK       INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                            3-Level     5-Level    7-Level      A           B        C          D
                                                                             TRAINING    TRAINING TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                            COURSE    CDC     UGT    UGT
                                                                              START     COMPLETED INITIALS   INITIALS
1 OPERATIONS SECURITY
 TR: AFI 10-701
1.1 Definition                                A           -    -      -
1.2 1C1X1 Vulnerabilities                     A           -    -      -
2 AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL                         -
 (ATC) PUBLICATIONS
 TR: AFI 11-201, AFI 11-202v3,
 AFI 13-203, Aeronautical
 Information Manual (AIM)
2.1 Facility Publications                     A
2.2 Comprehend, Interpret and          5      2b          b   3b      -
    Apply Flight Information
    Publications (FLIPS)
3 OPERATIONAL AREAS
 TR: AFI 11-202v3, AFI 13-203,
 AFI 13-204, FAAO JO 7110.65,
 AIM, Title 14 Code of Federal
 Regulations (CFR), AFI 11-
 202v3, AFI 13-203, AFI 13-204,
 FAAO JO 7110.65, AIM, Title 14
 Code of Federal Regulations
 (CFR), Computer Based
 Training Library (CBTL), ATC
 Training Series (ATCTS)
3.1 Class A Airspace                          A           B    -      -
3.2 Class B Airspace                          A           B    -      -
3.3 Class C Airspace                          A           B    -      -
3.4 Class D Airspace                   5      A           B    C      -
3.5 Class E Airspace                          A           B    -      -
3.6 Class G Airspace                          A           B    -      -
3.7 National Airspace System           7      A           B    -      C
    (NAS)
3.8 Air Defense Identification                 -          B    -      -
    Zone (ADIZ)
3.9 Flight Information Region                  -          -    -      -
    (FIR)
3.10 Airports Affecting Operations            A           -    -      -
3.11 Adjacent Airspace                        B           -    -      -
3.12 ATC Facilities                           B           -    -      -
3.13 Taxiways                          5      B           C    -      -
3.14 Runways/Helipads                  5      B           C    -      -
3.15 Ramps/Parking Areas               5      A           C    -      -
3.16 Field Elevation                   5      B           C    -      -
3.17 Visual/Radio Blind Spots                 A           -    -      -
3.18 Aircraft Arresting Systems               A           -    -      -
3.19 Airport Lighting                         B           B    -      -
3.20 Ground NAVAID                            -           -    -      -
     Checkpoints
3.21 Restricted Airspace               5      A           A    B      -
3.22 Warning Areas                     5      A           A    B      -


                                                     53
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND              2.    3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM             4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
 TECHNICAL REFERENCES               CORE     USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                                    TASK       INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                           3-Level     5-Level    7-Level      A           B        C          D
                                                                            TRAINING    TRAINING TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                           COURSE    CDC     UGT    UGT
                                                                             START     COMPLETED INITIALS   INITIALS
3.23 Alert Areas                             A           A    -      -
3.24 Prohibited Areas                        A           A    -      -
3.25 Controlled Firing Area                  A           A    -      -
3.26 Military Operations Area                A           B    -      -
     (MOA)
3.27 Special Use/ATC Assigned                A           A    -      -
     Airspace (ATCAA)
3.28 Military Training Routes                 -          -    -      -
     (MTR)
3.29 Temporary Flight Restriction            A           -    -      -
     (TFR)
3.30 Traffic Patterns                 5      B           B   3b      -
3.31 Bailout/Abandonment of                  A           -    -      -
     Aircraft
3.32 External Stores Jettison                A           -    -      -
3.33 Fuel Dump                               A           -    -      -
3.34 Hot Brakes                       7      A           A    -      B
3.35 Arm/De-arm                              A           A    -      -
3.36 Dangerous Cargo                         A           A    -      -
3.37 Alert Pads                              A           A    -      -
3.38 Drop Zones                              A           -    -      -
3.39 Hydrazine Areas                         A           -    -      -
3.40 Parachute Ops                           A           -    -      -
3.41 Precision Approach Critical             B           B    -      -
     Areas/POFZ
4 AIR NAVIGATIONAL AIDS
 (NAVAID)
 TR: AFI 13-203, AFI 13-204,
 FAAO JO 7110.65, AIM, Title 14
 CFR
4.1 VOR                                      B           B    -      -
4.2 TACAN                                    B           B    -      -
4.3 VORTAC                                   B           B    -      -
4.4 NDB                                      B           B    -      -
4.5 ILS                                      B           B    -      -
4.6 GPS                                      B           B    -      -
4.7 MLS/MMLS                                 -           B    -      -
4.8 NAVAID Use Limitations                   A           -    -      -
4.9 NAVAID Malfunction                       A           B    -      -
   Procedures
4.10 Area Navigation (RNAV)                  -           -    -      -
4.11 Jet Routes/Airways                      A           -    -      -
4.12 Minimum Vectoring Altitude              A           B    -      -
     (MVA)/IFR (MIFR) Chart
4.13 Minimum Enroute Altitude                A           B    -      -
     (MEA)
4.14 Minimum Obstruction                     A           B    -      -
     Clearance Altitude (MOCA)
4.15 Minimum Reception Altitude              A           -    -      -
     (MRA)

                                                    54
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                2.    3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM             4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
 TECHNICAL REFERENCES                 CORE     USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                                      TASK       INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                             3-Level     5-Level    7-Level      A           B        C          D
                                                                              TRAINING    TRAINING TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                             COURSE    CDC     UGT    UGT
                                                                               START     COMPLETED INITIALS   INITIALS
4.16 Minimum Crossing Altitude                 A           B    -      -
     (MCA)
4.17 Reporting Points                          A           B    -      -
4.18 Coordination Fixes                        A           -    -      -
5 EQUIPMENT OPERATION
 TR: AFI 13-203, AFI 13-204,
 FAAO JO 7110.65, CBTL,
 ATCTS
5.1 Surveillance Radar System                  B           -    -      -
5.2 Primary Radar Capabilities                 B           -    -      -
5.3 Alignment of Primary Radar                 B           -    -      -
5.4 Electronic Cursor Procedures               B           -    -      -
5.5 Secondary Radar Capabilities               B           -    -      -
5.6 Beacon Range Accuracy                      B           -    -      -
5.7 System/Receiver Control                    -           -    -      -
   Panel
5.8 Beacon Target Displacement                 B           -    -      -
   Procedures
5.9 Automated Systems                          B           -    -      -
   Keyboard
5.10 Precision Approach Radar                  B           -    -      -
     (PAR) Capabilities
5.11 PAR Alignment                              -          -    -      -
5.12 PAR Turnaround                             -          -    -      -
     Procedures
5.13 Video Map                                 A           -    -      -
5.14 Flight Data System (FDS)                  A           -    -      -
5.15 Operate Request                           2b          -    -      -
     Acknowledge Unit
     (RAU)/Voice System
5.16 Remote Status Indicator                   B           -    -      -
     (RSI)
5.17 Automatic Terminal                        A           -    -      -
     Information Service (ATIS)
5.18 Operate Weather                           2b          -    -      -
     /Information Dissemination
     System
5.19 Wind Indicators                           A           -    -      -
5.20 Operate Light Guns                 5      2b          b   3b      -
5.21 Operate Radio/Landlines                   2b          -    -      -
5.22 Clocks                                    A           -    -      -
5.23 Operate Intercoms                         2b          -    -      -
5.24 Primary Crash Alarm                       B           -    -      -
     System (PCAS)
5.25 Certified Tower Radar                     B           -    -      -
     Displays (CTRD)
5.26 Recorders                                 A           -    -      -
5.27 Air Traffic Control Simulation            -           -    -      -
     Equipment (ATCSE)


                                                      55
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND              2.    3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM             4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
 TECHNICAL REFERENCES               CORE     USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                                    TASK       INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                           3-Level     5-Level    7-Level      A           B        C          D
                                                                            TRAINING    TRAINING TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                           COURSE    CDC     UGT    UGT
                                                                             START     COMPLETED INITIALS   INITIALS
5.28 Land Mobile Radio (LMR)                  -          -    -      -
     Nets
5.29 Auxiliary Power Source                  A           -    -      -
5.30 Evacuation Alarms                       A           -    -      -
5.31 Equipment Outages                       -           -    -      -
5.32 Night Vision Devices                    A           -    -      -
5.33 Airfield Lighting Panel                 B           -    -      -
6 WEATHER
 TR: AFH 11-203v1, AFMAN 15-
 111, AFMAN 15-124, FAAO JO
 7110.65, ATCTS, CBTL
6.1 Cooperative Weather Watch                B           -    -      -
   (CWW)
6.2 Effect of Weather on Aircraft            B           -    -      -
6.3 Disseminate Weather               5      2b          B   3b      -
   Information
6.4 Visibility Checkpoint Charts             B           b   2b      -
6.5 Prevailing Visibility             5      B           b   2b      -
6.6 Solicit/Relay Pilot Reports       5      2b          b   3b      -
   (PIREP)
6.7 Low Level Wind Shear              5      B           b    b      -
   (LLWS) Advisory
6.8 Braking Action Advisory           5      B           b   2b      -
6.9 Runway Visual Range (RVR)                B           b    -      -
6.10 Runway Visual Values                    -           B    -      -
     (RVV)
6.11 Hazardous In-flight Weather             B           -    -      -
     Advisory Service (HIWAS)
6.12 Weather/Chaff Advisory                  B           -    -      -
7 OPERATING PROCEDURES
 TR: AFI 10-707, AFI 11-202v3,
 AFI 13-202, AFI 13-203, AFMAN
 10-100. FAAO JO 7110.65,
 FAAO JO 7610.4, FAAO 8200.1,
 CBTL, Federal Aviation
 Regulation (FAR) Part 91
7.1 Control Tower Operator                   A           -    -      -
   Certification Procedures
7.2 General Flight Rules              5      B           B    C      -
7.3 Visual Flight Rules (VFR)         5      B           B    C      -
7.4 Instrument Flight Rules (IFR)     5      B           B    C      -
7.5 Radio/Frequency                          A           -    -      -
   Channelization
7.6 Apply ATC Communication                  2b          -    -      -
   Procedures (radio/landline)
7.7 Apply Inter/Intra Facility               2b          B    -      -
   Coordination
7.8 Team Position                            A           -    -      -
   Responsibilities



                                                    56
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                2.    3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM             4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
 TECHNICAL REFERENCES                 CORE     USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                                      TASK       INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                             3-Level     5-Level    7-Level      A           B        C          D
                                                                              TRAINING    TRAINING TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                             COURSE    CDC     UGT    UGT
                                                                               START     COMPLETED INITIALS   INITIALS
7.9 Supervisor Notification                     -          -    -      -
   Requirements
7.10 Aircraft Priorities                5      B           B   3c      -
7.11 Aircraft Characteristics           5      B           B   C       -
7.12 Facility Evacuation                       -           -    -      -
     Procedures
7.13 Alternate Facility                         -          -    -      -
7.14 Facility Checklists                       B           -    -      -
7.15 Runway Control Structure                   -          -    -      -
7.16 Facility Forms                            B           -    -      -
7.17 Mark Flight Progress Strips               2b          B    -      -
7.18 Apply Transponder                         2b          b    -      -
     Procedures/Operations
7.19 Assign Beacon Codes                       2b          b    -      -
7.20 Transfer Control of Aircraft              2b          B    -      -
7.21 Coordinate Use of Airspace         7      2b          -    -     3c
7.22 Relay Closed/Unsafe                5      2b          B   3c      -
     Runway Information
7.23 Issue Airport, Obstruction,        5      2b          b   3c      -
     Field Condition Information
7.24 Notice to Airmen (NOTAM)           5      B           b    b      -
7.25 In-Flight Equipment                       B           -    -      -
     Malfunctions
7.26 Crash Grid Map                            A           -    -      -
7.27 Apply No Radio (NORDO)             5      2b          b    b      -
     Aircraft Procedures
7.28 Apply Communications               5      2b          b    b      -
     Failure Procedures
7.29 Apply Receiver-Only                5      2b          b   3b      -
     Acknowledgement
     Procedures
7.30 Apply Emergency Aircraft           5      2b          b   2b      -
     Operations Procedures
7.31 Apply Expeditious                  5      2b          B   3b      -
     Compliance Procedures
7.32 Emergency Locator                  5      B           -    B      -
     Transmitter (ELT) Signals
7.33 Apply Emergency Fuel               5      2b          b    b      -
     Operations Procedures
7.34 Apply Minimum Fuel                 5      2b          b   3b      -
     Operations Procedures
7.35 Issue Observed                     5      2b          b   3b      -
     Abnormalities
7.36 Radar Assistance to VFR                   B           -    -      -
     Aircraft in Weather Difficulty
7.37 Overdue Aircraft Procedures        7      A           B    -      C
7.38 Anti-Hijack Procedures                    A           B    -      -
7.39 Traffic Alert and Collision               B           -    -      -
     Avoidance System (TCAS)
     Resolution Advisories (RA)

                                                      57
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND              2.    3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM             4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
 TECHNICAL REFERENCES               CORE     USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                                    TASK       INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                           3-Level     5-Level    7-Level      A           B        C          D
                                                                            TRAINING    TRAINING TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                           COURSE    CDC     UGT    UGT
                                                                             START     COMPLETED INITIALS   INITIALS
7.40 Facility Bomb Threats                    -          -    -      -
7.41 Aircraft Bomb Threats                   A           B    -      -
7.42 Climb to VFR Instructions               A           -    -      -
7.43 Apply Special VFR (SVFR)                2b          b    -      -
    Procedures
7.44 Maintain Surveillance of         5      2b          b   3c      -
    Surface Area
7.45 Maintain Surveillance of         5      2b          b   3c      -
    Controlled Movement Area
    (CMA)
7.46 Respond to Operational           5      2b          b   3c      -
    Requests
7.47 Apply Additional Services        5      2b          b   2b      -
7.48 Issue Bird Advisory              5      2b          b   3b      -
    Information
7.49 Protect Overhead Traffic         5      2b          -   3b      -
    Pattern
7.50 Issue Traffic Advisories         5      2b          B   3c      -
7.51 Issue Safety Alerts              5      2b          b   3b      -
7.52 Divert Advisories                        -          -    -      -
7.53 Request for Information from             -          -    -      -
    Non-ATC Agencies
7.54 Aircraft Conducting Unusual              -          -    -      -
    Maneuvers
7.55 Single Frequency                         -          -    -      -
    Approaches
7.56 Minimum Distance without                A           -    -      -
    Final Clearance
7.57 VFR-on-Top Aircraft                      -          -    -      -
7.58 Issue Missed Approach                   2b          b    -      -
    Instructions
7.59 Issue Breakout Instructions             2b          -    -      -
7.60 Control Vehicles, Equipment      5      2b          b   3c      -
    and Personnel
7.61 Issue Wheels Check               5      2b          b   3c      -
7.62 Determine Aircraft Position      5      2b          B   3c      -
    on Airfield
7.63 Use of Active Runways            5      2b          b   3c      -
7.64 Runway Selection                 5      B           b    c      -
    Procedures
7.65 Issue Takeoff/Landing            5      2b          b   3c      -
    Clearances
7.66 Cancel Takeoff/Landing           5      2b          b   3c      -
    Clearances
7.67 Issue Landing Information        5      2b          b   3c      -
7.68 Landing Clearance without        5      B           b   3c      -
    Visual Observation
7.69 Issue Restricted Low             5      2b          b   3c      -
    Approaches
7.70 Issue Altimeter Setting          5      2b          b   3c      -

                                                    58
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND              2.    3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM             4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
 TECHNICAL REFERENCES               CORE     USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                                    TASK       INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                           3-Level     5-Level    7-Level      A           B        C          D
                                                                            TRAINING    TRAINING TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                           COURSE    CDC     UGT    UGT
                                                                             START     COMPLETED INITIALS   INITIALS
7.71 Transfer Position                5      2b          b   3c      -
    Responsibility
7.72 Apply Pre-Duty                   5      1a          b   3b      -
    Familiarization Procedures
7.73 Apply Visual Separation          5      2b          b   3b      -
7.74 Coordinate Aircraft              5      2b          b   3c      -
    Movement
7.75 Apply Wake Turbulence            5      2b          b   3c      -
    Separation
7.76 Issue Wake Turbulence            5      2b          b   3c      -
    Cautionary Advisories
7.77 Intersecting Runway              5      B           b   3c      -
    Separation
7.78 Issue Runway Exiting             5      2b          b   3c      -
    Instructions
7.79 Sequence                         5      2b          b   3c      -
    Arrivals/Departures
7.80 Separate                         5      2b          b   3c      -
    Arrivals/Departures
7.81 Simulated Flameout (SFO)                B           B    -      -
    Approaches/Emergency
    Landing Pattern (ELP)
    Operations/Practice
    Precautionary Approaches
7.82 Control Formation Flights        5      2b          b   3c      -
7.83 Control Helicopter               5      2b          b   3c      -
    Operations
7.84 Control VFR Transitions          5      2b          b    b      -
7.85 Issue Departure                         2b          B    -      -
    Procedures/Standard
    Terminal Arrival Routes
    (STAR)
7.86 Issue Taxi into Position and     5      2b          b   3c      -
    Hold Instructions
7.87 Issue Go-Around                  5      2b          b   3c      -
    Instructions
7.88 Control Simultaneous             5      2b          B   3b      -
    Same/Opposite Direction
    Operations
7.89 Opposite Direction               5      B           B   3b      -
    Operations
7.90 Issue Departure Information      5      2b          B   3b      -
7.91 Issue Departure Control          5      2b          b   3b      -
    Instructions
7.92 Reduced Same Runway              5      B           b    b      -
    Operation
7.93 Control Taxi Operations          5      2b          B   3b      -
7.94 IFR Clearance Data               5      B           b   b       -
7.95 Formulate/Issue Departure        5      2b          b   3b      -
    Clearances


                                                    59
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND             2.    3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM             4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
 TECHNICAL REFERENCES              CORE     USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                                   TASK       INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                          3-Level     5-Level    7-Level      A           B        C          D
                                                                           TRAINING    TRAINING TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                          COURSE    CDC     UGT    UGT
                                                                            START     COMPLETED INITIALS   INITIALS
7.96 Issue Amendments to             5      2b          B   3b      -
    Clearances
7.97 Issue Departure                 5      2b          B   3b      -
    Restrictions, Clearance Void
    Times, Hold for Release
    Times and Release Times
7.98 VFR Release of IFR Aircraft            B           B    -      -
7.99 Control Visual Approaches              2b          B    -      -
7.100 Circling Approaches                   B           B    -      -
7.101 Final Approach                        B           -    -      -
    Abnormalities
7.102 Conduct Basic Radar                   2b          -    -      -
    Service to VFR Aircraft
7.103 Electronic Attack (EA)                A           -    -      -
7.104 Conduct Radar                         2b          -    -      -
    Identification Procedures
7.105 Conduct Handoff                       2b          -    -      -
    Procedures
7.106 Conduct Point-out                     2b          -    -      -
    Procedures
7.107 Confirm Aircraft                      2b          -    -      -
    Identification
7.108 Terminate Radar Service               2b          -    -      -
7.109 Vector Aircraft                       2b          -    -      -
7.110 Nonparticipating Aircraft             B           -    -      -
    and Special Use/ATC
    Assigned Airspace (ATCAA)
7.111 Obstruction Separation                B           -    -      -
7.112 Separate Aircraft from                2b          -    -      -
    Adjacent Airspace
7.113 Edge of Scope Separation              B           -    -      -
7.114 Conduct Altitude                      2b          -    -      -
    Verification Procedures
7.115 Issue Holding Instructions            2b          B    -      -
7.116 Holding Pattern                        -          -    -      -
    Surveillance
7.117 Issue Approach/Arrival                2b          -    -      -
    Information
7.118 Issue Approach Clearance              2b          -    -      -
7.119 Issue Arrival Instructions            2b          -    -      -
7.120 Control Instrument                    2b          B    -      -
    Approaches
7.121 VFR Practice Approaches               B           -    -      -
7.122 Radar Approaches                      B           -    -      -
7.123 Control Radar Departures              2b          -    -      -
7.124 Control                               2b          b    -      -
    Successive/Simultaneous
    Departures




                                                   60
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND               2.    3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM             4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
 TECHNICAL REFERENCES                CORE     USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                                     TASK       INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                            3-Level     5-Level    7-Level      A           B        C          D
                                                                             TRAINING    TRAINING TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                            COURSE    CDC     UGT    UGT
                                                                              START     COMPLETED INITIALS   INITIALS
7.125 Parallel/Non-                           B           -    -      -
     Intersecting/Diverging
     Runways
7.126 No-Gyro Procedures                      B           -    -      -
7.127 Issue Position Advisories               2b          -    -      -
7.128 Control Successive                      2b          -    -      -
     Approaches
7.129 Validate Mode C Readouts                2b          -
7.130 Altitude Reservations                    -          -    -      -
     (ALTRV)
7.131 Conduct Final Approach                  2b          -    -      -
     Course Intercept Procedures
7.132 Merging Target Procedures               B           -    -      -
7.133 Speed Adjustments                       B           -    -      -
7.134 Airborne Radar                          -           -    -      -
     Approaches (ARA)
7.135 Lowest Useable Flight                   B           -    -      -
     Levels
7.136 Flight Inspection                       A           B    -      -
7.137 Aircraft Carrying                       A           B    -      -
     Dangerous Materials
7.138 Minimum Interval Takeoff                 -          B    -      -
     (MITO)/Nonstandard
     Formation/Cell Operations
7.139 Military Assumes                        A           B    -      -
     Responsibility for Separation
     of Aircraft (MARSA)
     Operations
7.140 Search and Rescue                       A           B    -      -
7.141 Law Enforcement                         -           -    -      -
     Operations
7.142 Lifeguard/Med Evac/Air                  B           B    -      -
     Evac Operations
7.143 Traffic Management Unit                  -          -    -      -
     (TMU) Procedures
7.144 Apply Duty Priority                     2b          -    -      -
7.145 Apply Operational Priority              2b          -    -      -
7.146 Unmanned Aerial System                   -          -    -      -
     (UAS)
7.146.1 Characteristics                       A           -    -      -
7.146.2 Communications/Lost                   A           -    -      -
        Link
7.146.3 Rules and Restrictions                A           -    -      -
8 NON-RADAR PROCEDURES
 TR: FAAO JO 7110.65
8.1 Initial Separation of                     B           b    -      -
   Successive Departing Aircraft
8.2 Initial Separation of                     B           b    -      -
   Departing/Arriving Aircraft
8.3 Longitudinal Separation                   B           b    -      -


                                                     61
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND              2.    3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM             4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
 TECHNICAL REFERENCES               CORE     USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                                    TASK       INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                           3-Level     5-Level    7-Level      A           B        C          D
                                                                            TRAINING    TRAINING TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                           COURSE    CDC     UGT    UGT
                                                                             START     COMPLETED INITIALS   INITIALS
8.4 Lateral Separation                       B           b    -      -
8.5 Vertical Separation                      B           b    -      -
8.6 Altitude Assignment                      B           b    -      -
   Procedures
8.7 Altitude Confirmation                    B           -    -      -
   Procedures
8.8 Route Assignment                         B           -    -      -
   Procedures
8.9 Protected Airspace                       B           -    -      -
   Procedures
8.10 Radar Approaches in a Non-              B           -    -      -
     Radar Environment
8.11 Timed Approaches                        B           b    -      -
8.12 Position Reporting                      B           b    -      -
     Procedures
8.13 Holding Instructions                    B           b    -      -
9 PRECISION
 (PAR)/SURVEILLANCE (ASR)
 APPROACH RADAR
 PROCEDURES
 TR: FAAO JO 7110.65
9.1 Communications Check                      -          -    -      -
9.2 Lost Communications                       -          -    -      -
9.3 Transmission                              -          -    -      -
   Acknowledgement
9.4 Distance from Touchdown                   -          -    -      -
9.5 Altitude Information                      -          -    -      -
9.6 Glidepath Notification                    -          -    -      -
9.7 Descent                                   -          -    -      -
   Notification/Instructions
9.8 Course Guidance                           -          -    -      -
9.9 Glidepath Information                     -          -    -      -
9.10 Trend Information                        -          -    -      -
9.11 Visual Reference Report                  -          -    -      -
9.12 Elevation Failure Procedures             -          -    -      -
9.13 Approach Guidance                        -          -    -      -
     Termination
9.14 Decision Height                          -          -    -      -
9.15 Position Advisories                      -          -    -      -
9.16 PAR for Approach                         -          -    -      -
     Monitoring
10 CREW RESORCE
  MANAGEMENT (CRM)
  TR: AFI 11-290, AT-M-06A
10.1 CRM Terminology                  7      A           b    -      c
10.2 Situational Awareness            7      A           b    -      c
10.3 Group Dynamics                   7      A           b    -      c
10.4 Communications                   7      A           b    -      c
10.5 Risk Management                  7      A           b    -      c
10.6 Decision Making                  7      A           b    -      c

                                                    62
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND             2.    3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM             4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
 TECHNICAL REFERENCES              CORE     USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                                   TASK       INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                          3-Level     5-Level    7-Level      A           B        C          D
                                                                           TRAINING    TRAINING TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                          COURSE    CDC     UGT    UGT
                                                                            START     COMPLETED INITIALS   INITIALS
10.7 Workload Management             7      A           b    -      c
10.8 Stress                          7      A           b    -      c
    Management/Awareness
10.9 Application of CRM              7      A           b    -      c
    Principles
11 DOD ATC
  CONTINGENCY/COMBAT
  OPERATIONS
  TR: AFI 10-201, AFI 10-2501,
  AFI 13-203, AFMAN 13-220,
  CBTL, Joint Pub 3-52,
  AFTTP(I) 3-2.17, AFTTP (I) 3-
  2.23
11.1 ATC Combat Readiness                   B           -    -      -
    Requirements
11.2 Basic Terminology /                    B           -    -      -
    Fundamental Concepts
11.3 Minimum ATC Mobility                   B           -    -      -
    Requirements
11.4 Types of ATC                           B           -    -      -
    Deployments/Exercises
11.5 ATC Deployment Equipment               -           -    -      -
11.5.1 Mobile Aircraft Arresting            A           -    -      -
      Systems
11.5.2 TRN-41                               A           -    -      -
11.5.3 TRN-26                               A           -    -      -
11.5.4 TPN-19                               A           -    -      -
11.5.5 MPN-14                               A           -    -      -
11.5.6 MSN-7                                A           -    -      -
11.5.7 MPN-25                               A           -    -      -
11.5.8 Mobile VORTAC                        A           -    -      -
11.5.9 Deployable ILS                       -           -    -      -
11.6 Air Base Defense                       -           b    -      -
    Procedures
11.7 Emergency Security Control             A           -    -      -
    of Air Traffic (ESCAT)
    Procedures
11.8 Aeronautical Information               A           -    -      -
    Publications (AIP)
11.9 Special Instructions                   A           -    -      -
    (SPINS)/Frag Orders
11.10 Airspace Control Plan                 A           -    -      -
    (ACP)
11.11 Airspace Control Order                A           -    -      -
    (ACO)
11.12 Air Tasking Order (ATO)               A           -    -      -
11.13 Airspace Coordinating                 A           -    -      -
    Measure (ACM)
11.14 Apply Tactical                        1a          -    -      -
    Arrival/Departure Procedures


                                                   63
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND           2.    3. BEHAVIORAL CODING SYSTEM             4. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT
 TECHNICAL REFERENCES            CORE     USED TO INDICATE TRAINING/
                                 TASK       INFORMATION PROVIDED
                                        3-Level     5-Level    7-Level      A           B        C          D
                                                                         TRAINING    TRAINING TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                        COURSE    CDC     UGT    UGT
                                                                          START     COMPLETED INITIALS   INITIALS
11.15 Chemical, Biological,                -          -    -      -
     Nuclear, and High-Yield
     Explosive (CBRNE) Defense
     Training
12. PERFORM PHYSICAL
     TRAINING (Ref: 1C2X1
     CFETP, Physical Fitness
     Standard Table 6.1)
12.1. Push-ups                     5      3b          -    -      -
12.2. Sit-ups                      5      3b          -    -      -
12.3. Chin / Pull-ups              5      3b          -    -      -
12.4. Run                          5      3b          -    -      -
12.5. Rucksack                     5      3b          -    -      -
12.6. Obstacle Course                     3b          -    -      -
13. PERFORM SURFACE
     SWIMMING (Ref: 1C2X1
     CFETP, Physical Fitness
     Standard Table 6.1)
13.1. Swim                         5      3b          -    -      -
14. PERFORM SURFACE AND
     SUBSURFACE WATER
     SKILLS (Ref: 1C2X1 CFETP
     Development Water skills
     Table 6.2)
14.1 Underwaters                          1a          -   3b
14.2 Drown Proofing                       1a          -   3b
14.3 Knot tying                           1a          -   3b
14.4 Buddy Breathing                      1a          -   3b
14.5 Treading Water                       1a          -   3b
14.6 Mask and Snorkel Recovery            1a          -   3b




                                                 64
Section D --Course Objective List

This section is not used due to the ever- changing nature of the 1C2X1 AFS. For complete
information pertaining to Course Objectives contact 342 TRS/CTFD, DSN 473-2957.

Section E -- Support Materials

There are currently no support material requirements. This area reserved

Section F --Training Course Index

1. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the specialty
and shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field training
programs.

2. Air Force In-Residence Courses (including courses operated by sister services.)
NOTE: * in tables below indicates courses not listed in the Education Training Course
Announcement (ETCA).
                    TITLE                              LOCATION              OPR

Combat Control Selection Course                   JBSA-Lackland, TX    USAF
Combat Control Operator Course (ATC)              Keesler AFB, MS      USAF
U.S. Army Airborne School                         Ft Benning, GA       USA
Combat Survival Training Course                   Fairchild AFB, WA    USAF
Water Survival, non-parachutist Course            Fairchild AFB, WA    USAF
Helicopter dunker/egress Course                   Fairchild AFB, WA    USAF
Combat Control Apprentice Course                  Pope Field, NC       USAF
Military Freefall Parachutist School              Yuma, AZ             USA
USAF Combat Dive Course                           Panama City, FL      USAF
Tactical Radar Approach Control                   Keesler AFB, MS      USAF
Static Line Jumpmaster Course                     Pope Field, NC       USAF
*Static Line Jumpmaster Course                    Coronado NAS, CA     USN
*Static line Jumpmaster Course                    Ft Benning, GA       USA
*Static Line Jumpmaster Course                    Little Creek, VA     USN
Military Free Fall Jumpmaster Course              Yuma, AZ             USA
Survey & Assault Zone Assessment Course           Pope Field, NC       USAF
Combat Diving Supervisor Course                   Key West NAS, FL     USA
USMC Amphibious Reconnaissance                    Camp Pendleton &     USMC
                                                  Lejeune
*Dive Equipment Maintenance                       Coronado NAS, CA     USN
*DRAEGER LAR V Transition                         Coronado/Little      USN
                                                  Creek
*Long Range Maritime Operations                   Coronado NAS, CA     USN
Special Survival Training Course                  Fairchild AFB, WA    USAF

                                             65
Water Survival (parachutist) Course                 Pensacola NAS, FL   USAF
Arctic Survival Course                              Eielson AFB, AK     USAF
Water Survival (non-parachutist) Course             Fairchild AFB, WA   USAF
SERE High Risk Level C                              Ft Bragg, NC        USA
Introduction to Personnel Recovery                  Ft Belvoir, VA      JPRA
Personnel Recovery Plans & Operations               Ft Belvoir, VA      JPRA
Contingency/Wartime Planning                        Maxwell AFB, AL     USAF
EWTGLANT / EWTGPAC Joint Terminal Attack            Little Creek, VA    USMC
Controller Course                                   /Coronado, CA
Ranger School                                       Ft Benning, GA      USA
Long Range Surveillance                             Ft Benning, GA      USA
Battle Staff                                        Hurlburt Fld, FL    ACC
Joint Combat Airspace Command & Control             Hurlburt Fld, FL    ACC
Joint Terminal Attack Controller Qualification      Nellis, AFB NV      ACC     /
Course                                              Ramstein AB, GE     USAFE
Special Operations Terminal Attack Controller       Yuma, AZ            AFSOC
Course
Naval Surface and Air Warfare Joint Terminal        Fallon NAB, NV      USN
Attack Controller Course
SOTIC                                               Ft Bragg, NC        USA
SFARTC                                              Ft Bragg, NC        USA
AFCSA
Joint Special Operation Forces Senior Enlisted      MacDill AFB, FL     SOCOM
Academy (JSOFSEA)
*Advanced Skills Training Course                    Hurlburt Fld, FL    AFSOC
*Latin American Orientation                         Hurlburt Fld, FL    AFSOC
*Joint Psychological Operations                     Hurlburt Fld, FL    AFSOC
*Middle East Orientation                            Hurlburt Fld, FL    AFSOC
*Cross Cultural Communications                      Hurlburt Fld, FL    AFSOC
*Dynamics of International Terrorism                Hurlburt Fld, FL    AFSOC
*Crisis Response Management                         Hurlburt Fld, FL    AFSOC
*Joint Special Ops Planning Workshop                Hurlburt Fld, FL    AFSOC
*Joint Sr Psy Ops Course                            Hurlburt Fld, FL    AFSOC
*Africa Orientation Course                          Hurlburt Fld, FL    AFSOC
*Southeast Asia Orientation Course                  Hurlburt Fld, FL    AFSOC
*Intro to Spec Ops                                  Hurlburt Fld, FL    AFSOC
*Revolutionary Warfare                              Hurlburt Fld, FL    AFSOC
*Civil-Military Strategy for Internal Development   Hurlburt Fld, FL    AFSOC
*Joint Aviation FID                                 Hurlburt Fld, FL    AFSOC




                                              66
3. Extension Course Institute (ECI) Courses

COURSE NUMBER            TITLE                           LOCATION           USER
1C251A and 1C251B        Combat Control Journeyman       Base Level          All

4. Exportable Courses: None

5. Courses under Development/Revision:

Section F -- Additional Regulatory Guidance and Requirements

There are currently no MAJCOM unique requirements. This area is reserved.




                                          67
