DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                    CFETP 2G0X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                      Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                      1 August 2013




                               AFSC 2G0X1
                               Logistics Plans




                CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
                  AND TRAINING PLAN




ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing
website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication was changed to include: formatting brought into compliance with DPSIT
publishing guidelines, progression pyramid was updated, and career progression
subparagraphs for all tiers have been updated to include courses, course locations and
prerequisites. Senior NCO DL requirements, Sister Service Academies, and LogR SNCO
Course have been added. STS has been updated to reflect requirements for UTA training,
and switched para 7.3.1 to a 7-level core task from 5-level. Please read document in its
entirety as several administrative changes have been made to update appropriate office
symbols and points of contact.
             CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                          LOGISTICS PLAN
                            AFSC 2G0X1

Table of Contents                                             Page
Preface………………………………………………………………………………... 1
Abbreviations/Terms Explained……………………………………………………… 2
Part I
Section A - General Information………..…………………………………………... 5
   1. Purpose……………………………………………………………..…………. 5
   2. Uses………………………………………………………………………….... 5
   3. Coordination and Approval…………………………………………………… 6
Section B - Career Progression and Information……..……………………………. 6
   4. Specialty Description………………………….………………………………. 6
   5. Skill and Career Progression…………………………………………….……. 7
     5.1. Apprentice (3) Level…………………………………..…………………… 7
     5.2. Journeyman (5) Level………………………………………………………. 8
     5.3. Craftsman (7) Level…………………………………………...…………… 8
     5.4. Superintendent (9) Level…………………………………………………… 8
   6. Training Decisions………………………………………………..…………… 8
   7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF)……………………...………… 9
   8. Career Field Path……………………………………………………………… 11
Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements……...……………………………… 17
   9. Specialty Qualification…………………………………………..……………. 17
     9.1. Apprentice Level Training……………………………………….………… 17
     9.2. Journeyman Level Training……………………………………...………… 17
     9.3. Craftsman Level Training…………………………………………..……… 18
     9.4. Superintendent Level Training.…………………………………..………… 19
Section D - Resource Constraints……..……………………………………..……… 19
   10. Purpose……………………………………………………...………………… 19
   11. Apprentice Level Training………………………….………………………… 20
   12. Journeyman Training……………………………….……………….………… 20
   13. Craftsman Training……………………………….…………………………… 20
Section E - Transitional Training Guide……………..…...………………………… 20
Part II
Section A - Specialty Training Standard………..……………………………...…… 21
   1. Implementation…………………………………………………..……………. 21
   2. Purpose………………………………………………………..………………. 21
   3. Third Party Certification……………………………………...……………….. 21
   4. Recommendations……………………………………………….…………….. 21
Attachment 1 - Qualitative Requirements
Attachment 2 - 2G0X1 STS


OPR: HQ USAF/A4L
Certified by: CMSgt Michael J. Holmquist AFCFM (HQ USAF/A4LX)
Supersedes: CFETP 2G0X1, 10 October 2012; CFETP2G0X1C1, 2 December 2009
Pages: 35

                                        0
                           LOGISTICS PLAN
                             AFSC 2G0X1
              CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

PREFACE

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive core-
training document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training
support resources, and minimum core task requirements for the Logistics Plans specialty.
This CFETP provides personnel with a clear career path to success and instills rigor in all
aspects of career field training. AFI 36-2129 contains further information on logistics
plans functions. References to promotion testing requirements apply to active duty
military personnel. NOTE: Civilians occupying management positions may use Part II
to support duty position qualification training.

2. This CFETP consists of two parts; both parts of this plan are used by supervisors to
plan, manage, and control training within the career field.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty.
Section A explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career
progression information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field
path. Section C associates each skill level with specialty qualifications (knowledge,
education, training, and other). Section D identifies resource constraints. Section E
identifies transition training guide requirements.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard
(STS) and includes duties, tasks, technical references to support training, and Air
Education and Training Command (AETC) conducted wartime course, core task, and
correspondence course requirements. Section B contains the course objective list and
training standards supervisors will use to determine if Airmen have satisfied training
requirements. Section C identifies available support material. Section D identifies
mandatory courses. Section E can be used to identify MAJCOM-unique training
requirements. Section F identifies training program points of contact. Section G lists
training program references.

2.3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty
receive effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan
enables us to train today's work force for tomorrow's jobs. At unit level, supervisors and
trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the
overall goals of this plan.




                                             1
ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training (AT). Formal course which provides individuals who are qualified
in one or more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional
skills/knowledge to enhance their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected
career Airmen at the advanced level of an AFS.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard/Command Job Qualification Standard
(AFJQS/CJQS). A comprehensive task list, which describes a particular job type or
duty position. They are used by supervisors to document task qualifications. The tasks on
AFJQS/CJQS are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive,
multipurpose document encapsulating the entire spectrum of education and training for a
career field. It outlines a logical growth plan that includes training resources and is
designed to make career field training identifiable, to eliminate duplication, and to ensure
this training is budget defensible.

Continuation Training. Additional training exceeding requirements with emphasis on
present or future duty assignments.

Core Task. A task Air Force Career Field Managers (AFCFMs) identify as a minimum
qualification requirement within an Air Force specialty or duty position.

Course Objective List (COL). A comprehensive list derived from initial skills course-
training standards, identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective
standards provided to achieve a 3/7 skill level in a career field. Supervisors use the COL
to assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Air Force
Training Program

Directed Duty Assignment (DDA). Airmen basic trainees or personnel
disqualified or eliminated from technical training assigned for on-the-job
training.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and
informal training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a
specialty.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive
video, or other necessary means to supplement training.

Field Technical Training (Type 4). Special or regular on-site training conducted by a
field training detachment (FTD) or by a mobile training team.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly, but flexible
process for planning, developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. It
ensures personnel are taught in a cost efficient way the knowledge, skills, and attitudes
essential for successful job performance.
                                             2
Initial Skills Training. A formal resident course which results in award of the 3-skill
level.

Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). A detailed report showing the results of an
occupational survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify
personnel in both upgrade (skill level award) and job qualification (duty position
certification) training.

Optimal Training. The ideal combination of training settings results in the highest
levels of proficiency on specified performance requirements within the minimum time
possible.

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance-based training
designed to qualify an airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs
both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the
performance skills training required to do the job.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional course designed for use at the
unit to qualify, or aid qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of
equipment. It may be printed, computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.

Representative Sites. Typical organizational units having similar missions, weapon
systems or equipment, or a set of jobs, used as a basis for estimating average training
capacities and costs within the Training Impact Decision System (TIDES).

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time,
manpower, and equipment that preclude desired training from being delivered.

Skills Training. A formal course which results in the award of a skill level.

Specialty Training. A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training
(on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in the award of a skill level.

Specialty Training Package and COMSEC Qualification Training Package. A
composite of lesson plans, test material, instructions, policy, doctrine, and procedures
necessary to conduct training. These packages are prepared by AETC, approved by
National Security Agency (NSA), and administered by qualified communications security
(COMSEC) maintenance personnel.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air
Force specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge that an airman in that specialty may be
expected to perform or to know on-the-job. The STS identifies the training provided to
achieve a 3, 5, and 7skill level within an enlisted AFS. It further serves as a contract
between AETC and the functional user to show which of the overall training
requirements for an Air Force specialty code (AFSC) are taught in formal schools and
correspondence courses.
                                            3
Standard. A fixed quantity, quality, or level of performance an individual is expected to
demonstrate.

Task Module I. A group of tasks performed within an Air Force specialty that are
performed together and that require common knowledge, skills, and abilities. TMs are
identified by an identification code and a statement.

Total Force. All collective Air Force components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian
elements) of the United States Air Force.

Training Business Area (TBA). TBA is an AF Portal, Net-Centric, GCSS-AF IF Level
4, Web-Based application providing AF Warfighters with global, real-time visibility into
the technical qualifications, certifications, and training status of support and weapons
systems professionals AF-wide. TBA was developed as the enterprise approach to
managing our training business process and supports base, wing, and work center level
training management activities by automating training management business processes
previously performed using paper records and legacy systems.

Training Capacity. The capability of a training setting to provide training on specified
requirements, based on the availability of resources.

Training Planning Team (TPT). Comprised of the same personnel as a U&TW,
however TPTs are more intimately involved in training development and the range of
issues are greater than is normal in the U&TW forum.

Training Requirements Analysis. A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFS to
be included in the training decision process.

Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident
school, on-the-job, field training, mobile training team, self-study etc.).

Upgrade Training (UGT). A mixture of mandatory courses, task qualification, QTPs,
and CDCs required for award of the 3, 5, 7, or 9 skill levels.

Utilization and Training Pattern. A depiction of the training provided to and the jobs
performed by personnel throughout their tenure within a career field or Air Force
specialty. There are two types of patterns: 1) Current pattern, which is based on the
training provided to incumbents and the jobs to which they have been and are assigned;
and 2) Alternate pattern, which considers proposed changes in manpower, personnel, and
training policies.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum of the AFCFM, MAJCOM
Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) functional managers, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs),
and AETC training personnel that determines career ladder training requirements.




                                           4
PART I

SECTION A - GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Purpose. This CFETP provides information necessary for the Air Force Career Field
Manager (AFCFM), MAJCOM functional managers, commanders, training managers,
supervisors, trainers, and the applicable AETC training wing to plan, develop, manage,
and conduct an effective career field education and training program. This plan outlines
training individuals must receive to develop and progress throughout their career. This
plan identifies initial skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced, and continuing education
and training. Initial skills training are the Air Force specialty (AFS) specific training an
individual receives upon entry and/or retraining in this specialty. For our career field,
this training is provided by AETC, 344 TRS at Lackland AFB, TX. Upgrade training
(UGT) identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, and
correspondence course completion required for award of the 3, 5, 7, and 9 skill levels.
Qualification training (QT) is actual hands-on task performance training designed to
qualify an airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during
and after the UGT process. It is designed to provide the performance skills/knowledge
required to do the job. Advanced training is formal Air Force Specialty training used for
selected Airmen. Proficiency training is additional training, either in-residence or
exportable advanced training courses, or on-the-job training (OJT), provided to personnel
to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade. The
CFETP also serves the following purposes:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field
education and training program. In addition, it is used to help supervisors identify
training at the appropriate point in an individual's career.

1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in this
specialty and recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual’s
career.

1.3. Lists training and education courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of
training, and the training delivery method.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired
career field training process.

2. Usage. The CFETP will be used by the AFCFM, MAJCOM functional managers,
and supervisors, at all levels to ensure comprehensive and cohesive training programs are
available for each individual in the logistics plans field.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop/revise formal resident and non-resident
training based on requirements established by users and documented in Part II of the
CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for
obtaining resources needed to provide the identified training.


                                             5
2.2. The MAJCOM functional managers ensure their training programs complement the
CFETP mandatory initial, upgrade, and proficiency requirements. Identified requirements
can be satisfied by OJT, resident, contract, or exportable courseware/courses. MAJCOM
developed training to support this AFSC must be identified for inclusion in this plan and
must not duplicate available training.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this
plan. The lists of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority. Also, the
AFCFM will initiate an annual review of this document to ensure currency and accuracy.
MAJCOM representatives and AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on
the career field training requirements. Using the list of courses in Part II, they will
eliminate duplicate training.

SECTION B - CAREER PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION

4. Specialty Description.

4.1. Specialty Summary. Performs and monitors logistics planning activities with a
qualified journeyman, craftsman, or superintendent as defined in paragraphs 5.2, 5.3, and
5.4 below. These include adaptive planning, base support and expeditionary site
planning, War Reserve materiel (WRM) processes, deployment/redeployment/reception
processes, support agreements and Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreements (ACSA)
processes and LOG C2 functions.

4.2. Duties and Responsibilities.

4.2.1. Performs contingency planning processes. Assists in preparing, monitoring,
coordinating, and consolidating logistics annexes for operational plans, programming
plans and general support, contingency, and exercise plans. Assists in monitoring and
reporting    limiting    factors.   Helps     prepare   and    monitor     deployment,
redeployment/reception planning activities. Assists in the collection, assembly, and
forwarding of logistics inputs to plans. With the assistance of a fully qualified 5/7/9-
level, inputs, extracts, and interprets data from automated information systems and
coordinate deployment tasking.

4.2.2. Performs base support and expeditionary site planning processes. Assists in the
administration and development of Part 1 base support and expeditionary site planning.
Assists in development of Part 2 base support and expeditionary site planning with
additional assistance from deploying units. Assists in the comparison of Part 1
information to the deploying unit’s requirements. Assists with identifying shortfalls,
disconnects, and/or alternate support methods which allow for the supportability of
transiting forces. With the assistance of a fully qualified 5/7/9-level, inputs, extracts, and
interprets data from automated information systems.

4.2.3. Performs deployment/redeployment/reception processes.       Assists in the
preparation of the appropriate plan. Participates in deployment exercises, develops
                                              6
training with the assistance of a fully qualified logistics planner. Performs LOG C2
duties. Prepares and maintains deploying personnel and equipment products. With the
assistance of a fully qualified 5/7/9level, inputs, extracts, and interprets data from
automated information systems.

4.2.4. Performs WRM processes. Assists in providing guidance for managing the WRM
program. Assists in the evaluation of WRM and associated documents. Assists in the
analysis of WRM reports to determine logistics constraints. Assists with monitoring
status of WRM deficiencies. Assists with the preparation and management of the WRM
budget. Participates in the WRM review board process as required. With the assistance
of a fully qualified 5/7/9-level, inputs, extracts, and interprets data from automated
information systems.

4.2.5. Performs support agreements and ACSA processes. Develops agreements with
the assistance of a fully qualified 5/7/9- level logistics planner. Assists with maintaining
agreements. With the assistance of a fully qualified 5/7/9-level, inputs, extracts, and
interprets data from automated information systems.

4.2.6. Performs logistics command and control (LOG C2) functions. Performs duties in
the logistics C2 cell and assists with combat support integration.

5. Skill and Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the
apprentice to the superintendent level play an important role in the Air Force’s ability to
accomplish its mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training must do their
part to plan, manage, and conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided
in this part of the CFETP will ensure each individual receives viable training at
appropriate points in their career.

5.1. Apprentice (3) Level. Initial skills training in this specialty consist of the tasks and
knowledge training provided in the 3-skill level resident course at Lackland AFB, TX or
by completing the tasks in the 3 skill level course column, column 4A in the STS. Upon
completion of initial skills training, a trainee will work with a trainer to enhance their
knowledge and skills. They will use Task Qualification Training and exportable courses,
such as career development courses (CDCs) to progress in the career field. Once task
certified, a trainee may perform the task unsupervised. It is imperative that 3-level
personnel receive training in WRM, deployment management, support agreements, base
support and expeditionary site planning and contingency planning. Three-levels may be
assigned job positions such as automated deployment system operators, deployment
management specialists, WRM specialist, support agreements specialist, base support and
expeditionary site planning specialist, or plans specialist. Highly recommend completion
of the LOGMOD/IDS Course (for automated deployment system operators) and
DCAPES course.

5.2. Journeyman (5) Level. Journeymen are expected to build upon the skills learned
as an apprentice by additional OJT, completion of career development courses (CDCs),
completion of WRM program course (on ADLS), and certification of core tasks. Five-
levels may be assigned job positions such as automated deployment system operators or

                                             7
managers, deployment management specialists or NCOs, WRM specialist or manager,
support agreements specialist or manager, base support and expeditionary site planning
specialist or NCO, or plans specialist or NCO. Trainees will complete all available
training courses, CDCs, or MAJCOM specific training before upgrade training is
complete. Senior Airmen will attend the Airman Leadership School (ALS) after having
48 months in the Air Force or upon selection for promotion to Staff Sergeant. Individuals
will use their CDCs to prepare for testing under WAPS. Highly recommend five-level
personnel attend Contingency Wartime Planning Course (CWPC), LOG 199
(Introduction to Logistics), LOG 299 (Combat Logistics Course) and
JOPES/GCCS/DCAPES training. Highly recommend completion of a CCAF degree in a
logistics related discipline.

5.3. Craftsman (7) Level. A craftsman may fill various supervisory and management
positions such as deployment management NCOIC, deployment control center NCOIC,
support agreements manager, WRMNCO, section supervisor, and task certifier. Trainees
should take courses or obtain knowledge on management of resources and personnel.
They will also complete the 7-level CDC and all the 7-level core tasks. Continued
academic education through CCAF, Contingency Wartime Planning Course (CWPC),
LOG 299, Combat Logistics Course, DRIS, and JOPES/GCCS/DCAPES is encouraged.
Highly recommend completion of a CCAF degree in a logistics related discipline. In
addition, when promoted to TSgt, individuals will attend the Noncommissioned Officers
Academy.

5.4. Superintendent (9) Level. A superintendent can be expected to fill logistics plans
superintendent positions. Highly recommend superintendent personnel attend
Contingency Wartime Planning Course (CWPC), JOPES/GCCS/DCAPES training and
LOG 399, Strategic Logistics Management. Additional knowledge in the areas of
budget, manpower, resources, and personnel management should be pursued through
continuing education. Individuals promoted to SMSgt will have attended the Senior
Noncommissioned Officer Academy or Sister Service Equivalent. Additional higher
education and completion of courses outside of their career AFSC are also recommended.

6. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to
complex) to encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Logistics
Plans career field. The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet
these training requirements. The strategy must ensure we develop affordable training,
eliminate duplication, and prevent a fragmented approach to training.

6.1. 3-Skill Level Training. Changes to the 3-level course for AFSC 2G0X1 included
changing the DCAPES tasks from task performance/knowledge to subject knowledge
only due to lack of access to SIPRNET and deleting the LOGMOD Stand Alone (LSA)
tasks. Other changes included: Adding subject knowledge tasks for the purpose of the
War Plans Additive Requirements Report (WPARR), the War Consumables Distribution
Objective (WCDO), the Inventory Management Plan (IMP), the Vehicle Authorization
Listing (VAL), and the Wartime Aircraft Activity Report (WAAR). AEF Reporting Tool
(ART) had training requirements, UTC assessments and ART reports subject knowledge
added. Under Base Support and Expeditionary Site Planning, additional subject
knowledge tasks were added for the Base Support and Expeditionary Planning Tool
                                           8
(BaS&E). Task performance was added for site manager actions, including manager user
accounts, place site under review, create data, review/update data, baseline the survey and
create reports. Subject knowledge for pilot unit responsibilities under UTC development
was also added. Subject knowledge tasks increased from 104 to 131, and the task
performance/knowledge tasks decreased from 49 to 46 mainly due the changes with
DCAPES.

6.2. 5-Skill Level Upgrade Training. Upgrade to the five-skill level requires
completion of 5-lvl CDCs and completion of the core tasks. The core tasks are the
minimum number of tasks an individual must be certified on in order to be upgraded to
the next skill level. However, there may be instances where an individual cannot be
certified on a given task due to lack of resources. Refer to AFI 36-2201 for training
guidance and proper documentation procedures Trainee must complete a minimum of 12
months in 5 level upgrade training (UGT) to be awarded their 5 level.

6.2.1. Changes to the 5-level CDCs for AFSC 2G0X1 included deleting all the tasks
under the War and Mobilization Plan (WMP), and changing the tasks under DCAPES
from task knowledge to subject knowledge to match the 3-level course. Core tasks were
discussed and revised. The 5-level core tasks increased from 55 to 77.

6.3. 7-Skill Level Advanced Training. Seven-level upgrade will be accomplished
through completion of the CDCs and core tasks. The core tasks are the minimum number
of tasks an individual must be certified on in order to be upgraded to the next skill level.
However, there may be instances where an individual cannot be certified on a given task
due to lack of resources. In this case, contact the Base Education and Training Office for
guidance and on the proper procedures to annotate the individual’s training record.
Trainee must complete a minimum of 12 months in 7-level UGT to be awarded the 7 skill
level.

6.3.1. Changes to the 7-level CDCs for AFSC 2G0X1 included deleting the tasks under
the Logistics Plans Career Field. The proficiency requirement was decreased under the
War and Mobilization Plan (WMP) section.               All tasks under the WRM
authorizations/source documents were deleted. The 7-level core tasks increased from 31
to 38.

7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). Automatic enrollment in CCAF
occurs upon completion of basic military training. CCAF provides the opportunity to
obtain an Associate in Applied Sciences Degree. In addition to its associate’s degree
program, CCAF offers the following:

7.1. Certifications

7.1.1. CCAF Instructor Certification. CCAF offers the CCAF Instructor Certification
(CIC) Program for qualified instructors who teach CCAF collegiate-level credit awarding
courses at a CCAF affiliated school. The CIC is a professional credential that recognizes
the instructor's extensive faculty development training, education and qualification
required to teach a CCAF course, and formally acknowledges the instructor's practical
teaching experience. Qualified officer, enlisted, civilian and other service instructors are
                                             9
eligible for this certification. The CIC Program replaced the CCAF Occupational
Instructor Certification (OIC) Program, which officially closed on 1 January 2011.

7.1.2. CCAF Instructional Systems Design Certification.                 CCAF offers the
Instructional Systems Development (ISD) Certification for qualified individuals who
develop CCAF courses/curriculum at CCAF affiliated schools. The purpose of the
certification is to recognize the training and education required for individuals to be
qualified to develop and manage CCAF collegiate courses. The certification also
recognizes the individual’s ISD qualification and experience in planning, developing,
implementing, and managing instructional systems. Qualified officer, enlisted, civilian,
and other service curriculum writers/developers are eligible for this certification.

7.1.3. Professional Manager Certification (PMC) Program. CCAF offers the PMC
for qualified senior Air Force enlisted personnel who have demonstrated an advanced
level of professional accomplishment. The purpose of the certification is to recognize the
individual’s outstanding education and training required to lead and manage Air Force
personnel and critical national defense assets. The certification also formally
acknowledges the individuals management qualifications and experience. Qualified Air
Force enlisted personnel are eligible for this certification. To learn more and enroll in the
program, visit CCAF’s website at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp.

7.2. CCAF Degree Requirements. Prior to completing an associate degree, the 5 skill
level must be awarded and the following requirements must be met:

 SUBJECT:                                                          SEMESTER HOURS
 Technical Education                                                     24
 Leadership, Management, and Military Studies                             6
 Physical Education                                                       4
 General Education:                                                      15
   Oral Communication, Written Communication,
   Mathematics, Social Science and Humanities
 Program Elective:                                                            15
   Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and
   Military Studies; or General Education
 Total                                                                        64

7.2.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of
technical core subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied
from Technical Core or Technical Elective subjects and courses. Specific requirements
can be found in the latest CCAF catalog located at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/.

7.2.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours):
Professional military education and/or civilian management courses.

7.2.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours):           This requirement is satisfied by
completion of Basic Military Training.


                                             10
7.2.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the
criteria for application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be
in agreement with the definitions of applicable General Education subjects/courses as
provided in the CCAF General Catalog.

7.2.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical
Education; Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects
and courses, including natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Nine
semester hours of CCAF degree applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to
this program may be applied. See the CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the
Associate of Applied Science degree for this specialty.

7.3. Off-duty Education. Additional off-duty education is encouraged for all logistics
planners.

7.3.1. Individuals desiring to become an Air Education and Training Command (AETC)
Instructor must possess as a minimum an associate degree or should be actively pursuing
an associate degree. Instructor Special Duty Assignment (SDA) requires an AETC
instructor candidate to have a CCAF degree or be within one year of completion (45
semester hours [SH]). A degree faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the
Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.

7.3.2. Airmen are highly encouraged to pursue a four-year degree through the Air
University Associate to Baccalaureate Cooperative Program (AUABC). AU-ABC is an
initiative between the Air Force and civilian higher education institutions to offer
baccalaureate degree opportunities to every Air Force enlisted member. The program
directs Airmen with associate in applied science degrees to a collection of accredited
“military friendly” colleges and universities to consider when completing a four-year
degree. The AF Virtual Education Center (AFVEC) serves as the gateway to AU-ABC
degree program and associated student services such as on-line enrollment, tuition
assistance processing, support services, and access to distance learning instructions. In
short, students are able to participate in courses anywhere, anytime to earn career-
relevant bachelor’s degrees. Consult AFI 36-2129, Logistics Plans Management, for
civilian course recommendations.

7.3.3. Airmen are highly encouraged to pursue graduate coursework through the AFIT
to Enlisted Program. Contact local Education Office for further guidance and selection
criteria for enrollment.

8. Career Field Path.

8.1. The Career Path Pyramid (Figure 1) identifies where Logistics Planners may be
assigned during their career and at the grade they should expect to be eligible for that
duty. Breadth of experience and education will determine the assignment placement in
some cases. The pyramid also lists available mandatory and optional training courses as
Logistics Planners progress in skill-level and/or grade. The 2G0X1 Enlisted Career Path
Requirements Table (Figure 2) identifies the minimum requirements by rank.

                                           11
8.1.1. Three-Level Training. The Logistics Plans in-residence course is designed to
provide a basic understanding of logistics planning functions. The course breaks down
logistics planning into six functional areas: Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF),
War Reserve Materiel (WRM), Agreements, Base Support and Expeditionary Site
Planning, Reception Staging Onward Movement and Integration (RSOI), and
Redeployment. For award of the 3-skill level, complete the formal resident course. For
DDA personnel the 3-level will be awarded after completing OJT on a minimum of all
“1a and 2b” proficiency codes identified on the STS that would have been taught in the 3-
skill level in residence course. Prerequisites: See AFI 36-2101. Duration: 27 Academic
Days.

8.1.2. The Airman Tier.

8.1.2.1. Five-Level Upgrade Training (See Paragraph 6.2.)

8.1.2.2. Deliberate and Crisis Action Planning and Execution Segments (DCAPES).
DCAPES is the standard Air Force automated data processing system designed to
communicate OPLAN requirements and resource monitoring capability to minimize
unnecessary movement of personnel and equipment into a theater of operations during
execution. The objective of DCAPES is to provide improved and streamlined operations
planning and execution processes. A two week user familiarization course is conducted
by AETC. Units request training through their Logistics Plans MAJCOM Functional
Manager. (This course is highly recommended)

8.1.2.3. LOGMOD and IDS. This course provides hands-on instruction of the
Logistics Module (LOGMOD) system and an overview of the Integrated Deployment

                                           12
System (IDS). The course is specifically designed to meet operational training
requirements for personnel tasked with using wing deployment systems that interface
with other key Air Force and joint service systems to support the adaptive planning
process. This course prepares personnel to use LOGMOD to plan and execute
deployments, receptions, and redeployment operations worldwide. The course concludes
with an extensive practical exercise that provides emphasis of the key LOGMOD
applications.

8.1.2.4. AFIT LOG 199, Introduction to Logistics. (Highly recommended for DDA
personnel). This is an AFIT course that provides students with an introduction to Air
Force logistics processes, organization, and issues. Informal lectures and case study
exercises are used, providing the student with an understanding of acquisition,
distribution, sustainment, disposition, supply chain management, and business process
improvement. Target Audience: Newly assigned logisticians and persons pending
immediate assignment to the logistics field. 2Lt through Captain, SSgt through MSgt,
GS-5 through GS-12. A security clearance is not required. Prerequisites: LOG 099,
Fundamentals of Logistics, must be completed.             Course can be accessed at
https://www.atrrs.army.mil/CHANNELS/AFITNOW.              Grade     restrictions: None.
Duration: 7 class days. This course is available on-site at various locations. Go to
http://www.afit.edu/ls/courselist.cfm to view course schedule and locations.

8.1.2.5. WRM ADLS. This course is located on the AFCESA ADLS website. The
course is designed for current users of Air Force War Readiness Materiel courseware,
service personnel, AD, ANG or AFRES appointed as WRMOs or WRMNCOs are the
primary audience, but all 2G0X1's (Logistics Plans) and 21R's (Logistics Readiness
Officers) after completing course's LRO L30BR21R1 OL1B and Log Plans
L3ABR2G031 0L1B at Lackland Air Force Base should take the course. The course is a
one-time requirement and should be taken prior to assuming duties as the Wing/Base
level WRMO and WRMNCO. The estimated time to complete this course is 8 hours.

8.1.2.6. Airman Leadership School (ALS). Must be a SrA with 48 months time in
service, or a SSgt selectee. Resident graduation is a pre-requisite for SSgt sew-on.

8.1.3. The NCO Tier.

8.1.3.1. Seven-Level Upgrade Training (See Paragraph 6.3.)

8.1.3.2. Expeditionary Site Survey Process (ESSP). This course will prepare an
Expeditionary Site Survey/Assessment team on their roles and responsibilities in
determining capabilities and suitability of a site during the deliberate planning phase or
during a contingency/humanitarian response. The course will educate each team member
on the roles and responsibilities of all team members in determining the capability of a
site. Members will comprehend the multi-faceted processes and resources available to
accomplish and publish a site survey/assessment. Additionally, the information will
cover available equipment and resources, team composition, US government agencies,
host nation roles, pre-, during, and post-coordination requirements with state agencies,
higher headquarter agencies and host nation. The length of the course will be five days.
Additional training will include hands-on exercises with digital cameras, site survey tool
                                             13
(software/program process), global positioning training, and mock-execution of a site
survey. This course does not provide any technical expertise in individual AFSC’s or
MAJCOM missions.

8.1.3.3. AFIT LOG 299, Combat Logistics. This AFIT course addresses the roles and
responsibilities of logisticians in support of combat, peace, and humanitarian operations.
The focus is on logistics at the operational and tactical levels of war. The course
addresses how Air Force logisticians, together with other combat support forces, create
and sustain capability in a joint theater of operations. This course is designed for
personnel assigned to maintenance, supply, transportation, contingency contracting, and
logistics plans positions at base-level through joint and unified commands. The course is
also suited for personnel in other positions (i.e. civil engineering, services, security,
intelligence, and operations planning) who must have knowledge of or interact with
combat support and combat sustainment operations. The course is not designed for
personnel in the wholesale acquisition career field. The course combines combat logistics
history with current issues and dynamics. Methods of instruction include informal
lectures, guided discussions, a planning exercise, and a literary analysis. Target
audience: The course is open to officers in the ranks of 2Lt and Captain, SSgt through
SMSgt, and civilian personnel in the grades of GS-9 through GS-12. It is designed for
personnel in a logistics or combat support career field assigned to an operational logistics
position at base level though joint and unified commands. The course is not
recommended for personnel assigned to acquisition logistics positions. Prerequisites:
There are no prerequisites for this course; however grade restrictions are O-1 to O-3, E-5
to E-8, and GS-09 to GS-12. Duration: 7 class days. This course is available on-site at
various locations. Go to http://www.afit.edu/ls/courselist.cfm to view course schedule
and locations.

8.1.3.4. Joint Operations Planning & Execution System (JOPES). The Joint
Deployment Training Center (JDTC) offers a 5-day JOPES Support Personnel Course
(JSPC). This course provides extensive hands-on instruction designed for personnel who
support the joint deployment process for adaptive planning. Units request training online
through the JTO at http://www.jdtc.jfcom.mil. (This course is highly recommended)

8.1.3.5. Contingency Wartime Planners Course (CWPC). Air University conducts
the CWPC course at Maxwell AFB, AL. This course provides planners in-depth
knowledge in contingency planning, crisis action planning, and operations plans
execution. Prerequisites: Air Force war planners in the ranks of E-5 through 0-4 and
civilian equivalents may attend this course. Duration: 10 class days (This course is
highly recommended)

8.1.3.6. NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICER ACADEMY (NCOA). Must be a TSgt
or TSgt-Selectee. Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt sew-on (active duty
only).

8.1.4. The SNCO Tier.

8.1.4.1. SNCO PME DL Course. Must be in the grade of E-6 who have completed
NCOA and have at least two years time in grade, or in grade of E-7, E-7 select or above
                                         14
(AFI36-2301). The SNCO PME DL course is a CCAF-affiliated course delivered via the
World Wide Web (course 14). SNCO PME DL consists of 61 hours accredited through
the SACS. Students earn four hours of undergraduate credit upon completion of the
course. Course may be accessed at https://au.csd.disa.mil.

8.1.4.1.1. USAF SNCO Academy. Must be a SMSgt, SMSgt Selectee, or an eligible
MSgt. Resident graduation is a prerequisite prior to sewing on E-9 (active duty only).

8.1.4.1.2. Sister Service SNCO Academy. SNCO’s may find themselves eligible to
attend in-residence courses offered through sister services (USA, USMC, USN and
USCG). Unit commanders nominate qualified members via their respective MAJCOMs
(volunteer status should be considered but is not required). While specific routing may
be locally determined, ensure Wing CCMs are part of the coordination process. Eligible
Airmen who wish to volunteer should make their desires known to their unit commanders
for consideration. Submit packages to the appropriate MAJCOM A1K office (A1D for
AFMC) for consideration. MAJCOMs are responsible for validating their nominees’
eligibility requirements. OPR: AF/A1DLE.

8.1.4.2. UPGRADE TO SUPERINTENDENT (9 Level). Must be a senior master
sergeant for award of the 9-skill level.

8.1.4.3. LogR SNCO Course. The LogR SNCO course prepares SNCOs for larger
leadership roles (e.g., QA manager, flight chief, squadron superintendent and staff
positions) and enhances management across a wide array of LogR functions. The course
is self-paced, delivered via ADLS, and consists of five blocks of instruction with a total
of 70 lessons and two main objectives: 1) Provide enterprise view of logistics operations;
2) Provide orientation on all LogR tactical level enlisted responsibilities and functions.
Students are required to pass an electronic end-of-block exam prior to attempting
successive blocks. Personnel have 180 days to complete the course after enrollment.
Although the target audience is SNCOs (E-8 selects and above), civilian attendance is
encouraged. Those who complete the course will earn 7 semester hours toward their
CCAF. Units request training through their Logistics Plans MAJCOM Functional
Manager. (This course is highly recommended).

8.1.4.4. AFIT LOG 399, Strategic Logistics. The objective of this AFIT course is to
educate personnel on how the USAF utilizes DoD's strategic logistical resources, to
support military operations. This course focuses on the distribution, utilization,
sustainment, and disposition of logistical resources. This course is designed to broaden
student understanding of Air Force logistics doctrine, processes, programs, and policies
that foster critical thinking on a broad range of key issues facing the Air Force and joint
logistics communities using a seminar forum designed to enhance discussion among
students, faculty, and guest speakers. Guest speakers are primarily from joint
organizations and commands such as TRANSCOM, The Joint Staff, and Defense
Logistics Agency Target Audience: Personnel assigned to Air Logistics Center and
MAJCOM level or higher. Prerequisites: The course is open to officers, O-4 and O-5;
enlisted, E-8 and E-9; and civilians, GS-13 and GS-14 or their equivalents. Wing level
personnel and GS-12s, E-7s, and O3s will be put on a stand-by list and will be allowed to
attend if the target audience does not fill all seats. Duration: 10 class days. This course is
                                               15
available on-site at various locations. Go to http://www.afit.edu/ls/courselist.cfm to view
course schedule and locations. (This course is highly recommended).

                            Figure 2. 2G0X1 Enlisted Career Path Requirements.
                                                          GRADE REQUIREMENTS
Education and Training                               Average Earliest High Year of Tenure
Requirements                               Rank      Sew-On  Sew-On   (HYT)
Basic Military Training School
Apprentice Technical School               Amn        6 months
(3-Skill Level)                           A1C        16 months
Upgrade to Journeyman
(5-Skill Level)
- Complete core / duty position           Amn
requirements.                             A1C        16 months     28 months
- Complete appropriate CDC.               SrA        3 years                     8 years
- Time in training IAW AFI 36-2201

                                          Trainer
Airman Leadership School                  - Must attend the AF Training Course
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time       - Must be qualified and certified to perform the task to be trained.
in service or be a SSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite   Certifier
for SSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).       Certifiers must be at least a SSgt (E-5) with a 5-skill level or
                                          civilian equivalent, capable of evaluating the task being certified,
                                          and have completed the AFTC.

Upgrade to Craftsman
(7-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SSgt.
- Complete core / duty position           SSgt       7.5 years     3 years                  15 Years
requirements.
- Time in training IAW AFI 36-2201

Non Commissioned Officer Academy          TSgt       12.5 years    5 years                  20 years
- Must be a MSgt, MSgt Selectee or
TSgt.                                     MSgt       16 years      8 years                  24 years
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite
for MSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).

Upgrade to Superintendent
(9-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SMSgt.                  SMSgt      19.2 years    11 years                 26 years
- Mandatory requirements in
AFECD.
USAF Senior NCO Academy
- Must be a SMSgt or SMSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite
for SMSgt sew-on (Active Duty-Only).
- A percentage of top non-selectee (for
promotion to E-8) MSgt’s attend the
SNCOA each year.

Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM)              CMSgt      21.5 years      14 years               30 years




                                                     16
Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements
9. Specialty Qualification: Skill levels in this career field are defined in terms of tasks
and knowledge requirements.         This section outlines the specialty qualification
requirements for each skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory
requirements for entry, award and retention of each skill level. The specific task and
knowledge training requirements are identified in the STS at Part II, Sections A and B of
this CFETP.

9.1. Apprentice Level Training: AFSC 2G031, Logistics Plans Apprentice.

9.1.1. Specialty Qualification.

9.1.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: logistics planning techniques in
functional areas of materiel management, maintenance, transportation, contracting, civil
engineering, services, force protection, operations, personnel, comptroller, medical and
legal as impacted by, and as they impact installation logistics planning; Air Force
operations and organization; processes of deployment, beddown, employment,
redeployment, and reconstitution; command and control techniques; techniques of
conducting readiness assessments; data processing and electronic data processing
equipment; and basic budgeting techniques.

9.1.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school is desirable.

9.1.1.3. Training. Completion of the basic Logistics Plans Course is mandatory for
award of the apprentice AFSC. Exception DDA personnel will award apprentice AFSC
after completing OJT requirements outlined in para 9.1.1.

9.1.1.4. Experience. See AFI 36-2101.

9.1.1.5. Other.

9.1.2. Training Sources and Resources. Completion of initial skills training, Logistics
Plans Apprentice Course at Lackland AFB, TX, satisfies the knowledge and training
requirements specified in the Specialty Qualification section for award of the 3-skill
level. The STS identifies all the knowledge and tasks, with their respective standards.

9.2. Journeyman Level Training: AFSC 2G051, Logistics Plans Journeyman.

9.2.1. Specialty Qualification. Enter 5-skill level UGT after completion of the three-
skill level course.

9.2.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: logistics planning techniques in
functional areas of materiel management, maintenance, transportation, contracting, civil
engineering, services, force protection, operations, personnel, comptroller, medical and
legal as impacted by, and as they impact installation logistics planning; Air Force
operations and organization; processes of deployment, beddown, employment,
redeployment, and reconstitution; command and control techniques; techniques of
                                           17
conducting readiness assessments; data processing and electronic data processing
equipment; and basic budgeting techniques.

9.2.1.2.   Education. N/A

9.2.1.3. Training. Completion of 5-level CDC, WRM program course (on ADLS),
and all 5-level core tasks on STS.

9.2.1.4. Experience. Qualification and possession of AFSC 2G031. Experience in
functions such as developing, evaluating, monitoring, or inspecting logistics activities, or
preparing logistics plans and documents.

9.2.1.5. Other. Entry into journeyman upgrade training is accomplished after an
individual is assigned to their first duty station as a Logistics Planner. A trainee must
complete a minimum of 12 months in 5-level upgrade training to be awarded the 5 skill
level.

9.2.1.6. Training Sources and Resources. CDC 2G051 provides the career
knowledge training required. The STS shows the tasks that are trained through the CDC
material. Continuation/qualification training and OJT are provided by qualified trainers.

9.3. Craftsman Level Training: AFSC 2G071, Logistics Plans Craftsman.

9.3.1. Specialty Qualification. N/A

9.3.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: logistics planning techniques in
functional areas of materiel management, maintenance, transportation, contracting, civil
engineering, services, force protection, operations, personnel, comptroller, medical and
legal as impacted by, and as they impact installation logistics planning; Air Force
operations and organization; processes of deployment, beddown, employment,
redeployment, and reconstitution; command and control techniques; techniques of
conducting readiness assessments; data processing and electronic data processing
equipment; and basic budgeting techniques.

9.3.1.2. Education. To assume the grade of SSgt and MSgt individuals must be
graduates of the Airman Leadership School and NCO Academy, respectively (for ARC,
completion of AFIADL Courses 00001 and 00009 satisfy the ALS & NCO Academy
requirement).

9.3.1.3. Training. Completion of 7-level CDC, all 7-level core tasks on STS.

9.3.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2G051. Also,
experience performing or supervising functions such as developing, evaluating,
monitoring, or inspecting logistics activities, or preparing logistics plans and documents.

9.3.1.5. Other. Entry into OJT is initiated when an individual has obtained the rank of
SSgt and possesses the 5-skill level. Trainees must complete at least 12 months in UGT,
the 2G071 CDC, and be certified on core 7-level tasks.
                                            18
9.3.2. Training Sources and Resources. The STS identifies all the core tasks required
for qualification. Continuation/qualification training and OJT is provided by qualified
trainers.

9.4. Superintendent Level Training: AFSC 2G091, Logistics Plans Superintendent

9.4.1. Specialty Qualification.

9.4.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of areas of automated deployment
systems, all phases of planning, WRM, and support agreements management.

9.4.1.2. Education. N/A

9.4.1.3. Training. N/A

9.4.1.4. Experience. For award of AFSC 2G091, individuals must be a SMSgt, and
qualified in and possess AFSC 2G071. Also, experience managing functions such as
developing evaluating, monitoring, or inspecting logistics activities, or preparing logistics
plans and documents.

9.4.1.5. Other. Entry into OJT is initiated when an individual possesses the 7-skill level
and is a SMSgt Selectee.

9.4.2. Training Sources/Resources. N/A

Section D - Resource Constraints
10. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints that preclude optimal
and desired training from being developed or conducted, including information such as
cost and manpower. Resource constraints will be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated
annually.

11.   Apprentice Level Training: Logistics Plans Apprentice Course.

11.1. Constraints. The training squadron does not have the infrastructure to
adequately provide instruction of DCAPES at the appropriate level.

11.1.1. Impact. Logistics planners cannot obtain DCAPES accounts with the
appropriate levels of permission to facilitate the Air Force verification process upon
arrival at their first duty station. Gaining units are absorbing the TDY costs to obtain
additional training. Mission readiness is delayed.

11.1.2. Resources Required. Obtain infrastructure for training squadron to enable
training at the appropriate level.

11.1.3. Action Required. Acquire appropriate funding for facilities and contract
support to facilitate on site DCAPES capability to perform training actions.
                                             19
11.2.   OPR/Target Completion Date. AETC/A4RXR 20130601.

12. Journeyman Training: N/A

13. Craftsman Training: N/A

Section E - Transitional Training Guide:
There are currently no transitional training requirements. This area is reserved.




                                             20
Part II

Section A - Specialty Training Standard (STS)
1. Implementation. The implementation of this STS for technical training provided by
AETC is with the 2G031 class beginning 21 August 2012, graduating 27 September
2012. The CDC need date for 5 level is 1 September 2012 and 7 level CDC 31 October
2012.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:

2.1. Column 1 (Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical References) lists the most common
tasks, knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for Airmen to perform duties
in the 3, 5, and 7-skill level.

2.2. Column 2 (Core Tasks) identifies the core tasks that must be certified for upgrade to
the next higher skill level. Supervisors may assign additional core tasks, as deemed
appropriate that must be certified for upgrade to the next higher skill level. When
resources (training expertise, equipment, etc.) are not available to certify an individual on
a core task, the commander will annotate the STS stating that resources are not available.

2.2.1. During wartime, courses will be taught 10 hours a day, six days a week. Upgrade
training will not be denied to individuals who, through lack of resources, cannot be core
task certified. For further information contact the Military Personnel Flight Formal
Training Section.

2.3. Use Column 3 (Certification for OJT) to record completion of tasks and knowledge
training requirements.

2.4. Column 4 (Proficiency Codes Used to Indicate Training/Information Provided)
shows the proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training
on the task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the career development
course. See CADRE/AFSC/CDC listing maintained by the unit-training manager for
current CDC listings.

3. Third Party Certification. Core tasks identified in this CFETP do not require third-
party certification.

4. Recommendations. Comments and recommendations are invited concerning the
quality of AETC training. A customer service information line (CSIL) has been installed
for the supervisor’s convenience to identify graduates who may have received over or
under training on task/knowledge items listed in this specialty training standard. For
quick responses to problems, call the customer service information line, DSN 473-2917,
any time day or night. Furthermore, the customer service line may be reached
electronically via email at <37trg.dos@us.af.mil>. Reference this CTS/STS and identify
the specific area of concern (paragraph, training standard element, etc.).


                                             21
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
OFFICIAL




                               JOHN B. COOPER, Maj General, USAF
                               Director of Logistics
                               DCS, Logistics, Installations and Mission
                               Support




2 Atch
1. Qualitative Requirements
2. 2G0X1 STS




                              22
                                                                       ATTACHMENT 1

                                          THIS BLOCK IS FOR IDENTIFICATION PURPOSES ONLY
                                                                    NAME OF TRAINEE
PRINTED NAME (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                                         INITIALS (Written)                          SSAN (last four)


                       PRINTED NAME OF TRAINER, CERTIFYING OFFICIAL AND WRITTEN INITIALS

N/I                                                                                                N/I

N/I                                                                                                N/I

N/I                                                                                                N/I

N/I                                                                                                N/I

N/I                                                                                                N/I

N/I                                                                                                N/I


                                                        QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   PROFICIENCY CODE KEY

                                               SCALE             DEFINITION: The individual
                                               VALUE
      TASK                                         1             Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (EXTREMELY
  PERFORMANCE                                                    LIMITED)
     LEVELS
                                                   2             Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (PARTIALLY PROFICIENT)

                                                   3             Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (COMPETENT)

                                                   4             Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task. (HIGHLY
                                                                 PROFICIENT)
      *TASK                                        a             Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (NOMENCLATURE)
    KNOWLEDGE
      LEVELS
                                                   b             Can determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task. (PROCEDURES)

                                                   c             Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed. (OPERATING PRINCIPLES)

                                                   d             Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (ADVANCED THEORY)
     **SUBJECT                                    A              Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (FACTS)
    KNOWLEDGE
       LEVELS
                                                  B              Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (PRINCIPLES)

                                                  C              Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (ANALYSIS)

                                                  D              Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (EVALUATION)

                                                                         EXPLANATIONS

* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task. (Examples: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

X This mark is used alone in course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.


 NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code in column 4A are trained during war time.



                                                                                       23
                                                                 ATTACHMENT 2
                          2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                            Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge and   A         B         A            B           C               D           E              A                  B                    C
Technical References                                                                                          3 Skill Lvl        5 Skill Lvl          7 Skill Lvl
                           5        7                     Tng        Trainee         Trainer    Certifier         (1)                  (1)                 (1)
                                          Tng Start
                          Lvl      Lvl                    C/W        Initials        Initials   Initials         Course               CDC                 CDC
1. LOGISTICS PLANS CAREER FIELD TR: AFI 36-2129
1.1. Purpose                                                             A           A              -
1.2. Core
                                                                         A           B              -
competencies
1.3. Career field
                                                                         A           A              -
structure
1.4. Career progression                                                  A           B              -
1.5. Base-level Log
                                                                         A           B              -
Plans Functions
1.6.
CCDR/MAJCOM/NA                                                           -           A              B
F Log Plans Functions
1.7. Logistics Plans
                                                                         A           B              -
Security
2. AIR AND SPACE EXPEDITIONARY FORCE (AEF) TR: AFI 10-244, AFI 10-401, AFI 10-403, JP 3-35, JP 5-0, JP 1,
AFDD 1, AFDD 2, DTR 4500.9R, Part I & II
2.1 Joint Planning Overview
2.1.1. Composition
and function of the
                                                                         -           A              B
National Security
Council
2.1.2. Joint Strategic Planning System
2.1.2.1 Planning,
Programming,
                                                                         -           A              B
Budgeting and
Execution System
2.1.2.2. Joint Strategic
                                                                         -           A              B
Planning System
2.1.2.3. Joint Strategic
                                                                         -           A              B
Capabilities Plan
2.1.2.4. Joint Strategic
                                                                         -           A              B
Planning Community
2.1.3. Adaptive Planning Process
2.1.3.1. Global Force
                                                                         -           A              B
Management Process
2.1.3.2. Request for
Forces/Capabilities                                                      -           A              B
Process
2.1.3.3. Joint Sourcing
                                                                         -           A              B
Process
2.1.3.4. Types of plans
2.1.3.4.1. Operational
                            X                                            A           A              B
Plan (OPLAN)
2.1.3.4.2. Concept
                            X                                            A           A              B
Plan (CONPLAN)
2.1.3.4.3. Functional
                                                                         A           A              B
Plan

                                                                                24
                          2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                            Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge and   A         B         A            B           C               D           E              A                  B                    C
Technical References                                                                                          3 Skill Lvl        5 Skill Lvl          7 Skill Lvl
                           5        7                     Tng        Trainee         Trainer    Certifier         (1)                  (1)                 (1)
                                          Tng Start
                          Lvl      Lvl                    C/W        Initials        Initials   Initials         Course               CDC                 CDC
2.1.3.4.4. Supporting
                                                                                                                   A                   A                    B
Plan
2.1.3.4.5. Operation
                                X                                                                                  A                   A                    B
Order (OPORD)
2.1.3.5. Contingency
                           X                                                                                       A                   A                    B
Planning
2.1.3.6. Crisis Action Planning
2.1.3.6.1. Phases                                                                                                  A                   A                    B
2.1.3.6.2. Warning
                                X                                                                                  A                   A                    B
Order (WARNORD)
2.1.3.6.3. Planning
                                X                                                                                  A                   A                    B
Order (PLANORD)
2.1.3.6.4. Alert Order
                                X                                                                                  A                   A                    B
(ALERTORD)
2.1.3.6.5. Execute
                                X                                                                                  A                   A                    B
Order (EXORD)
2.1.3.6.6. Prepare To
                                X                                                                                  A                   A                    B
Deploy Order (PTDO)
2.1.3.6.7. Deployment
                                X                                                                                  A                   A                    B
Orders (DEPORD)
2.2. Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF)
2.2.1. Theory              X                                                                                       B                   B                    -
2.2.2. Cycle/Battle
                           X                                                                                       B                   B                    -
Rhythm
2.2.3. Posturing
2.2.3.1. AEF posturing
                           X                                                                                       A                   B                    -
codes
2.2.3.2. AEF posturing
                                X                                                                                  A                   B                    -
rules
2.3. War and Mobilization Plan (WMP)
2.3.1. WMP-1                                                                                                       -                   -                   A
2.3.2. WMP-2                                                                                                       -                   -                   A
2.3.3. WMP-3
2.3.3.1. WMP-3, Part 1                                                                                             -                   -                   A
2.3.3.2. WMP-3, Part 2                                                                                             -                   -                   A
2.3.3.3. WMP-3, Part 3                                                                                             -                   -                   A
2.3.3.4. WMP-3, Part 4                                                                                             -                   -                   A
2.3.4. WMP-4, Parts 1
                                                                                                                   -                   -                   A
and 2
2.3.5. WMP-5                                                                                                       -                   -                   A
2.3.6. WMP-5
                              X                                                                                    -                   -                   A
Planning factors
2.4. Time Phased Force Deployment Data (TPFDD)
2.4.1. Purpose                                                                                                     A                   B                    -
2.4.2. Purpose of data
                                                                                                                   A                   B                    -
fields
2.4.3. Determine         X                                                                                        2b                   -                    -

                                                                                25
                          2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                            Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge and   A         B         A            B           C               D           E              A                  B                    C
Technical References                                                                                          3 Skill Lvl        5 Skill Lvl          7 Skill Lvl
                           5        7                     Tng        Trainee         Trainer    Certifier         (1)                  (1)                 (1)
                                          Tng Start
                          Lvl      Lvl                    C/W        Initials        Initials   Initials         Course               CDC                 CDC
movement timing and
requirements
2.4.4. Interpret
                           X                                                                                      2b                   -                    -
taskings
2.5. Joint Operational Planning and Execution System (JOPES)
2.5.1. Purpose of
                                                                                                                   A                   B                    -
JOPES
2.5.2. Purpose and capabilities of the following JOPES tools
2.5.2.1. JOPES Edit
                           X                                                                                       A                   A                    -
Tool (JET)
2.5.2.2. Rapid Query
                           X                                                                                       A                   A                    -
Tool (RQT)
2.5.2.3. Scheduling
                                                                                                                   -                   A                    -
and Movement (S&M)
2.5.2.4. Web Hoc
                                                                                                                   -                   A                    -
Query (WHQ)
2.5.2.5. Contents of
the JOPES Standard                                                                                                 -                   A                    -
Reference Files
2.5.2.6. Newsgroups                                                                                                -                   -                    -
2.6. Air Force War Planning and Execution Systems (WPES)
2.6.1. Integrated
                                                                                                                   B                   B                    -
Deployment System
2.6.2. DCAPES
2.6.2.1. Purpose                                                                                                   A                   -                    -
2.6.2.2. DCAPES
                           X                                                                                       A                   -                    -
Reference Files
2.6.2.3. Air Force
JOPES Editing Tool         X                                                                                       A                   A                    -
(AFJET)
2.6.2.4. Dynamic
                           X                                                                                       A                   A                    -
Query Tool (DQT)
2.6.2.5. Wing level
Tasking Verification       X                                                                                       A                   B                    -
Process
2.6.2.6. Wing level
                           X                                                                                       A                   B                    -
Shortfalls
2.6.3. LOGMOD
2.6.3.1. Purpose                                                                                                   A                   -                    -
2.6.3.2. Update
                           X                                                                                      2b                   -                    -
LOGMOD Tables
2.6.3.3.
Create/View/Disconne
                           X                                                                                      2b                   -                    -
ct Parent Subordinate
Unit Relationships
2.6.3.4. Manage
LOGMOD                     X                                                                                      2b                   -                    -
Users/Passwords


                                                                                26
                          2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                            Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge and   A         B         A            B           C               D           E              A                  B                    C
Technical References                                                                                          3 Skill Lvl        5 Skill Lvl          7 Skill Lvl
                           5        7                     Tng        Trainee         Trainer    Certifier         (1)                  (1)                 (1)
                                          Tng Start
                          Lvl      Lvl                    C/W        Initials        Initials   Initials         Course               CDC                 CDC
2.6.3.5. Set GMT
                                                                                                                  2b                   -                    -
Offset
2.6.3.6. Create
                         X                                                                                        2b                   -                    -
LOGMOD Reports
2.6.3.7. Import
                         X                                                                                        2b                   -                    -
Personnel Refresh File
2.6.3.8. LOGFOR
2.6.3.8.1. LOGFOR Data Actions
2.6.3.8.1.1. Copy UTC
                         X                                                                                        2b                   -                    -
data
2.6.3.8.1.2. Copy
LOGFOR to
                         X                                                                                        2b                   -                    -
PLAN/PLAN to
LOGFOR
2.6.3.9. PLAN
2.6.3.9.1.
Add/Delete/Modify        X                                                                                        2b                   -                    -
Plan ID in PLAN
2.6.3.9.2. Create/delete
                         X                                                                                        2b                   -                    -
PLAN UTC
2.6.3.9.3.
Import/export PLAN       X                                                                                        2b                   -                    -
detail file
2.6.3.9.4. Export
ICODES data from         X                                                                                        2b                   -                    -
PLAN
2.6.3.9.5. Export
                         X                                                                                        2b                   -                    -
DCAPES File
2.6.3.9.6. Copy PLAN
                         X                                                                                        2b                   -                    -
data
2.6.3.9.7. Maintain
                         X                                                                                        2b                   -                    -
PLAN data
2.6.3.9.8. Purpose of
                                                                                                                   B                   -                    -
TCMD data
2.6.3.9.9. Purpose of
                                                                                                                   B                   -                    -
ICODES data
2.6.3.10. Schedule
2.6.3.10.1. Purpose                                                                                                B                   -                    -
2.6.3.10.2.
                                                                                                                   A                   -                    -
Components
2.6.3.10.3. Schedule ID
2.6.3.10.3.1. Maintain   X                                                                                        2b                   -                    -
2.6.3.10.3.2.
Add/Modify/Delete
                         X                                                                                        2b                   -                    -
from mode events
table
2.6.3.10.3.3.
Add/Modify/Delete        X                                                                                        2b                   -                    -
from chalk mission

                                                                                27
                          2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                            Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge and   A         B         A            B           C               D           E              A                  B                    C
Technical References                                                                                          3 Skill Lvl        5 Skill Lvl          7 Skill Lvl
                           5        7                     Tng        Trainee         Trainer    Certifier         (1)                  (1)                 (1)
                                          Tng Start
                          Lvl      Lvl                    C/W        Initials        Initials   Initials         Course               CDC                 CDC
table
2.6.3.10.4. Publish
                          X                                                                                       2b                   -                       -
Schedule Change
2.6.3.10.5. Assign
                          X                                                                                       2b                   -                       -
ULNs
2.6.3.10.6.
Assign/unassign PAX       X                                                                                       2b                   -                       -
to Chalks
2.6.3.10.7.
Assign/unassign Cargo X                                                                                           2b                   -                       -
to Chalks
2.6.3.10.8. Block Seating
2.6.3.10.8.1. Process                                                                                              A                   -                       -
2.6.3.10.8.2. Establish
Unit Seat                 X                                                                                       2b                   -                       -
Requirements
2.6.3.10.9. Schedule
                                                                                                                   -                   -                       -
Interfaces
2.6.3.10.9.1. Types of
                                                                                                                   A                   -                       -
data files
2.6.3.10.9.2. Import
                          X                                                                                       2b                   -                       -
DCAPES levy file
2.6.3.10.9.3. Export
                          X                                                                                       2b                   -                       -
data files
2.6.3.10.10. Execution Schedule Management
2.6.3.10.10.1. Manage
                          X                                                                                       2b                   -                       -
increment status
2.6.3.10.10.2. Manage
                          X                                                                                       2b                   -                       -
PAX status
2.6.3.10.10.3.
                          X                                                                                       2b                   -                       -
Document logbook
2.6.3.10.11. Schedule Shortfalls
2.6.3.10.11.1.
                                                                                                                   B                   -                       -
Processes
2.6.3.10.11.2. Revert
                          X                                                                                       2b                   -                       -
Schedule shortfall
2.6.3.10.12. Complete
                          X                                                                                       2b                   -                       -
manual SOE
2.7. AEF Reporting Tool (ART)
2.7.1. Purpose                                                                                                     A                   B                       -
2.7.2. Functional
                          X                                                                                        A                   B                       -
responsibilities
2.7.3. Training
                          X                                                                                        A                   B                   -
requirements
2.7.4. UTC
                          X                                                                                        A                   B                       -
assessments
2.7.5. ART reports        X                                                                                        A                   B                       -
2.8. Deployment Responsibilities


                                                                                28
                          2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                            Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge and   A         B         A            B           C               D           E              A                  B                    C
Technical References                                                                                          3 Skill Lvl        5 Skill Lvl          7 Skill Lvl
                           5        7                     Tng        Trainee         Trainer    Certifier         (1)                  (1)                 (1)
                                          Tng Start
                          Lvl      Lvl                    C/W        Initials        Initials   Initials         Course               CDC                 CDC

2.8.1. HQ USAF                                                                                                     -                   A                    B
2.8.2. MAJCOM                                                                                                      -                   A                    B
2.8.3. NAF                                                                                                         -                   A                    B
2.8.4.
Wing/Installation                                                                                                  A                   B                    -
Commander
2.8.5. Group
                                                                                                                   A                   B                    -
Commanders
2.8.6. LRS
                                                                                                                   A                   B                    -
Commander
2.8.7. Unit                                                                                                        A                   B                    -
2.8.8. Installation Deployment Readiness Cell (IDRC)
2.8.8.1. Purpose                                                                                                   A                   B                    -
2.8.8.2. Staff
2.8.8.2.1. Composition                                                                                             A                   A                    -
2.8.8.2.2.
                           X                                                                                       A                   B                    -
Roles/Responsibilities
2.8.9. Deployment Process Working Group (DPWG)
2.8.9.1. Purpose                                                                                                   A                   A                    -
2.8.9.2. Participants                                                                                              A                   A                    -
2.8.9.3.
                                 X                                                                                 A                   B                    -
Responsibilities
2.9. Deployment Planning
2.9.1. Determine
                           X                                                                                      1a                   b                    c
worst-case scenario
2.9.2. Log Planner role
in determining
mobility bags,                   X                                                                                 A                   B                    -
weapons and
ammunition
2.9.3. Installation Deployment Plan (IDP)
2.9.3.1. Contents                                                                                                  A                   B                    -
2.9.3.2. Develop               X                                                                                   -                   b                    -
2.9.4. Conduct
Deployment Staff               X                                                                                  1a                   b                    -
Assistance Visit
2.9.5. Deployment Execution
2.9.5.1. Deployment Control Center (DCC)
2.9.5.1.1.
                               X                                                                                   A                   B                    -
Responsibilities
2.9.5.1.2. Manning                                                                                                 A                   B                    -
2.9.5.1.3. Equipment
and communications                                                                                                 A                   A                    -
requirements
2.9.5.2. Cargo Deployment Function (CDF)
2.9.5.2.1.
                               X                                                                                   A                   B                    -
Responsibilities

                                                                                29
                          2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                            Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge and   A         B         A            B           C               D           E              A                  B                    C
Technical References                                                                                          3 Skill Lvl        5 Skill Lvl          7 Skill Lvl
                           5        7                     Tng        Trainee         Trainer    Certifier         (1)                  (1)                 (1)
                                          Tng Start
                          Lvl      Lvl                    C/W        Initials        Initials   Initials         Course               CDC                 CDC
2.9.5.2.2. Manning                                                                                                 A                   B                    -
2.9.5.2.3. Equipment
and communications                                                                                                 A                   A                    -
requirements
2.9.5.3. Personnel Deployment Function (PDF)
2.9.5.3.1.
                               X                                                                                   A                   B                    -
Responsibilities
2.9.5.3.2. Manning                                                                                                 A                   B                    -
2.9.5.3.3. Equipment
and communications                                                                                                 A                   A                    -
requirements
2.9.5.4. Unit Deployment Control Center (UDCC)
2.9.5.4.1.
                               X                                                                                   A                   B                    -
Responsibilities
2.9.5.4.2. Manning                                                                                                 A                   B                    -
2.9.5.4.3. Equipment
and communication                                                                                                  A                   A                    -
requirements
2.9.6. Deployment
                                                                                                                   A                   B                    -
work center training
2.9.7. Prepare
                                                                                                                   -                   -                    -
executive briefing
2.9.8. Prepare concept
                               X                                                                                  2b                   -                    -
briefing
2.9.9. Verify
                           X                                                                                      2b                   -                    -
deployment taskings
2.9.10. Verify
                           X                                                                                      2b                   -                    -
movement data
2.9.11. Schedule
2.9.11.1. Develop
                           X                                                                                      2b                   b                    -
timing flow
2.9.11.2. Manage
                           X                                                                                       a                   b                    -
movement outflow
2.9.12. Shortfalls/Reclama
2.9.12.1. Definition
                                                                                                                   A                   B                    -
and purpose
2.9.12.2. Base level
                               X                                                                                   -                   -                    -
process
2.9.13. Historical
                                                                                                                   A                   -                    -
records
2.9.14. Reporting instructions
2.9.14.1. Purpose                                                                                                 A                    B                    -
2.9.14.2. Interpret        X                                                                                      2b                   -                    -
2.9.15. Line remarks
2.9.15.1. Purpose                                                                                                 A                    B                    -
2.9.15.2. Interpret        X                                                                                      2b                   -                    -
2.9.16. Deployment
                                                                                                                   A                   B                    -
Cargo process

                                                                                30
                          2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                            Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge and   A         B         A            B           C               D           E              A                  B                    C
Technical References                                                                                          3 Skill Lvl        5 Skill Lvl          7 Skill Lvl
                           5        7                     Tng        Trainee         Trainer    Certifier         (1)                  (1)                 (1)
                                          Tng Start
                          Lvl      Lvl                    C/W        Initials        Initials   Initials         Course               CDC                 CDC
2.9.17. Deployment
                                                                                                                   A                   B                    -
Personnel process
2.9.18. In Transit
                                                                                                                   A                   B                    -
Visibility (ITV)
2.10. Deployment Enablers
2.10.1 ADVON                                                                                                       A                   A                    B
2.10.2. Aggregation                X                                                                               A                   A                    B
2.10.3. ESTA                                                                                                       -                   -                    -
2.10.4. SAAM
                                                                                                                   -                   -                    -
Request System (SRS)
3. WAR RESERVE MATERIEL (WRM)
3.1. WRM functional responsibilities
3.1.1. Purpose                                                                                                     A                   A                    B
3.1.2. Command
                                                                                                                   -                   A                    B
functional areas
3.1.3. Command
                                                                                                                   -                   A                    B
WRMO/NCO
3.1.4. Storing
                                                                                                                   -                   A                    B
commands
3.1.5. Using
                                                                                                                   -                   A                    B
commands
3.1.6. Command
                                                                                                                   -                   A                    B
WRM manager
3.1.7.
Wing/installation                                                                                                  -                   A                    B
commander
3.1.8. WRM Program
                                                                                                                   A                   A                    B
Manager (WRMPM)
3.1.9. WRMO/NCO                X                                                                                   A                   A                    B
3.1.10. Unit WRM
                                                                                                                   A                   A                    B
Manager
3.2. Categories and use
codes of equipment
                          X                                                                                        A                   B                    -
and WRM
3.3. WRM training
                                                                                                                   -                   A                    B
requirements
3.4. WRM authorizations/source documents
3.4.1. War Plans Additive Requirements Report (WPARR)
3.4.1.1. Purpose                                                                                                   A                   B                    -
3.4.1.2. Interpret
                               X                                                                                   -                   -                    -
WPARR
3.4.2. War Consumables Distribution Objective (WCDO)
3.4.2.1. Purpose                                                                                                   A                   B                    -
3.4.2.2. Interpret
                               X                                                                                   -                   -                    -
WCDO
3.4.3. Inventory Management Plan (IMP)
3.4.3.1. Purpose                                                                                                   A                   B                    -


                                                                                31
                          2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                            Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge and   A         B         A            B           C               D           E              A                  B                    C
Technical References                                                                                          3 Skill Lvl        5 Skill Lvl          7 Skill Lvl
                           5        7                     Tng        Trainee         Trainer    Certifier         (1)                  (1)                 (1)
                                          Tng Start
                          Lvl      Lvl                    C/W        Initials        Initials   Initials         Course               CDC                 CDC
3.4.3.2. Interpret IMP           X                                              -           -          -
3.4.4. Vehicle Authorization Listing (VAL)
3.4.4.1. Purpose                                                                A          B           -
3.4.4.2. Interpret VAL           X                                              -           -          -
3.4.5. Wartime Aircraft Activity Report (WAAR)
3.4.5.1. Purpose                                                                A          B           -
3.4.5.2. Interpret
                                 X                                              -           -          -
WAAR
3.4.6. Interpret
                                                                                -           -          -
TPFDD
3.4.7. WRM
management/authoriza
                                                                                -          A           B
tion documents
reconciliation
3.5. WRM surveillance
                                 X                                              -          A           B
process
3.6. WRM review board
3.6.1. Members                                                                  -          A           B
3.6.2. Responsibilities          X                                              -          A           B
3.7. WRM out load
                                 X                                              -          A           B
requirements
3.8. WRM financial
                                                                                -          A           B
responsibilities
3.9. WRM
                                 X                                              -          A           B
approval/use
3.10. WRM
                                                                                -          A           B
reconstitution
3.11. Basic
Expeditionary Airfield                                                          -          A           B
Resources (BEAR)
4. AGREEMENTS TR: AFI 25-201, AFI 25-301, DoD 2010.9, Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreements and DoDI
400.19, Interservice and Intragovernmental Support
4.1. Agreements,
                                                                                A          A           -
MOAs and MOUs
4.2. Support agreement
                                 X                                              -          A           B
development process
4.3. Funding annex                                                              -          A           -
4.4. Manpower annex                                                             -          A           -
4.5. Support agreement
impasse/conflict                                                                -          A           B
resolution process
4.6. Support agreement
review and revision                                                             -          A           B
process
4.7. Support agreement
                                                                                -          A           B
termination process
4.8. Functional Area
                                 X                                              -          A           B
Agreement

                                                                                32
                          2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                            Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge and   A         B         A            B           C               D           E              A                  B                    C
Technical References                                                                                          3 Skill Lvl        5 Skill Lvl          7 Skill Lvl
                           5        7                     Tng        Trainee         Trainer    Certifier         (1)                  (1)                 (1)
                                          Tng Start
                          Lvl      Lvl                    C/W        Initials        Initials   Initials         Course               CDC                 CDC
Coordinator (FAAC)
training
4.9. Acquisition and Cross Servicing Agreements (ACSA)
4.9.1. Purpose                                                                                                     A                   A                    B
4.9.2. Functional
                                                                                                                   -                   A                    B
responsibilities
4.9.3. Requirements
                                                                                                                   -                   A                    B
and limitations
4.9.4. Transaction
                                                                                                                   -                   A                    B
process
4.9.5. Reporting
                                                                                                                   -                   A                    B
requirements
5. BASE SUPPORT AND EXPEDITIONARY SITE PLANNING TR: AFI 10-404
5.1. Purpose                                                                                                       A                   B                    -
5.2. Base Support and Expeditionary Planning Tool (BaS&E)
5.2.1. Purpose                                                                                                     A                   B                    -
5.2.2. Capabilities        X                                                                                       A                   A                    B
5.2.3. Functional
                                                                                                                   A                   A                    B
responsibilities
5.2.4. Site Manager Actions
5.2.4.1. Manager user
                           X                                                                                      2b                    -                   -
accounts
5.2.4.2. Place site
                           X                                                                                      2b                    -                   -
under review
5.2.4.3. Create data       X                                                                                      2b                    -                   -
5.2.4.4. Review/update
                           X                                                                                      2b                    -                   -
data
5.2.4.5. Baseline the
                           X                                                                                      2b                    -                   -
survey
5.2.4.6. Create reports    X                                                                                      2b                    -                   -
5.3. Functional roles and responsibilities
5.3.1. MAJCOM
Logistics Plans                                                                                                    -                   A                    B
function
5.3.2. Air Force
Component Command
                                                                                                                   -                   A                    B
Logistics Plans
function
5.3.3. Deployed unit
                                                                                                                   -                   A                    B
commander
5.3.4. Host
Wing/Installation                                                                                                  -                   A                    B
Commander
5.3.5. Host Plans and
                           X                                                                                       A                   A                    B
Integration function
5.3.6. Base level units                                                                                            -                   A                    B
5.3.7. Tenant units                                                                                                -                   A                    B


                                                                                33
                          2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                            Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge and   A         B         A            B           C               D           E              A                  B                    C
Technical References                                                                                          3 Skill Lvl        5 Skill Lvl          7 Skill Lvl
                           5        7                     Tng        Trainee         Trainer    Certifier         (1)                  (1)                 (1)
                                          Tng Start
                          Lvl      Lvl                    C/W        Initials        Initials   Initials         Course               CDC                 CDC
5.4. Base Support Plan (BSP) development
5.4.1. Timing
requirements for plan                                           -          A                                                                                B
development
5.4.2. Base Support Plan Committee (BSPC)
5.4.2.1. Purpose                                                A          A                                                                                B
5.4.2.2. Members                                                A          A                                                                                B
5.4.2.3.
                           X                                    A          A                                                                                B
Responsibilities
5.4.3. Classification
                                                                -          A                                                                                B
requirements
5.4.4. Plan distribution                                        -          A                                                                                B
5.4.5. LIMFAC
                                X                               -          A                                                                                B
management
5.4.6. BSP Format               X                               -          A                                                                                B
5.5. Expeditionary Site Survey Process (ESSP)
5.5.1. Purpose                                                 A           A                                                                                B
5.5.2. Authorization
                                                                -          A                                                                                B
requirements
5.5.3. Team
                                                               A           A                                                                                B
composition
6. RECEPTION, STAGING, ONWARD MOVEMENT AND INTEGRATION (RSO&I) TR: AFI 10-403, JP 3-35
6.1. Process                                                   A          A                                                                                 B
6.2. Command and control functional responsibilities
6.2.1. Command and
                                                               A          A                                                                                 B
Control
6.2.2. Reception
                                X                              A          A                                                                                 B
Control Center
6.2.3. Reception
                                                               A          A                                                                                 B
Processing Unit
6.2.4. PERSCO                                                  A          A                                                                                 B
6.2.5. Cargo Reception
                                                               A          A                                                                                 B
Function
7. REDEPLOYMENT TR: AFI 10-403 and JP 3-35
7.1. Purpose                                                   A          A                                                                                 B
7.2. Process
7.2.1. Planning                                                A          A                                                                                 B
7.2.2. Documentation
                                                               A          A                                                                                 B
requirements
7.2.3. Build a Schedule X                                      1a          b                                                                                -
7.3. Roles and responsibilities
7.3.1. Logistics
                                X                               A          B                                                                                -
planners
7.3.2. Unit
Redeployment Work                                               A          A                                                                                B
Centers
7.3.3. Redeployment        X                                    A          B                                                                                -

                                                                                34
                          2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                            Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge and   A         B         A            B           C               D           E              A                  B                    C
Technical References                                                                                          3 Skill Lvl        5 Skill Lvl          7 Skill Lvl
                           5        7                     Tng        Trainee         Trainer    Certifier         (1)                  (1)                 (1)
                                          Tng Start
                          Lvl      Lvl                    C/W        Initials        Initials   Initials         Course               CDC                 CDC
Assistance Team
(RAT)
8. UTC DEVELOPMENT, REGISTRATION, MAINTENANCE AND MANAGEMENT TR: AFI 10-401
8.1. UTC Composition
8.1.1. Definition                                            A          A                                                                                   -
8.1.2. Functional
                        X                                    A          B                                                                                   -
Areas
8.1.3. Types                                                 A          B                                                                                   -
8.1.4. MEFPAK           X                                    A          B                                                                                   -
8.1.5. MISCAP           X                                    A          B                                                                                   -
8.1.6. MANFOR           X                                    A          B                                                                                   -
8.1.7. LOGFOR           X                                    A          B                                                                                   -
8.1.8. Levels of detail   X                                  A          B                                                                                   -
8.1.9. TUCHA                                                 A          B                                                                                   -
8.1.10. Deployment
                          X                                  A          B                                                                                   -
echelons
8.1.11. Title format                                         A          B                                                                                   -
8.1.12. DEPID code                                           A          B                                                                                   -
8.1.13. Suffix codes                                         A          B                                                                                   -
8.2. UTC Development
8.2.1. New capabilities                                       -         A                                                                                   B
8.2.2. Registration
                                                              -         A                                                                                   B
requirements
8.2.3. Rule sets                                              -         A                                                                                   B
8.2.4. Pilot unit
                        X                                    A          B                                                                                   -
responsibilities
8.3. UTC Management
8.3.1. Maintain Plan
                                                              -         -                                                                                   -
IDs
8.3.2. Prioritize cargo
                        X                                    2b         -                                                                                   -
in LOGMOD
8.3.3. Pilot/Non-pilot
                        X                                    A          B                                                                                   -
unit responsibilities
8.3.4.
Approve/Disapprove                                            -         -                                                                                   -
UTC
8.3.5. Tailor UTCs in
                        X                                    2b         -                                                                                   -
LOGMOD
8.3.6. MEFPAK
biennial review                                               -         A                                                                                   B
responsibilities




                                                                                35
