DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                             CFETP 2A3X2
Headquarters US Air Force                                                                 Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                            01 November 2010




                                     AFSC 2A3X2
       INTEGRATED AVIONIC SYSTEMS




               CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
                 AND TRAINING PLAN


ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


                                                       1
                                                              Table of Contents
PART I                                                                                                                                                     Page
Preface ......................................................................................................................................................... 4

Abbreviations/Terms Explained................................................................................................................ 5
  Section A, General Information ............................................................................................................. 7
    Purpose of the Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP)
    Use of the CFETP
    Coordination and Approval of the CFETP
  Section B, Career Field Progression and Information.......................................................................... 8
    Specialty Descriptions
    Skill and Career Progression
    Training Decisions
    Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Academic Programs
    Degree Requirements
    Career Field Path
    Education and Training Manager Checklist
  Section C, Skill Level Training Requirements................................................................................... 14
    Purpose
    Specialty Qualification
  Section D, Resource Constraints........................................................................................................... 17
    Purpose
    Training Constraints
    Apprentice Training Constraints
    Journeyman Training Constraints
    Craftsman Training Constraints
  Section E, Transitional Training Guide ............................................................................................... 17
    Three Skill Level Upgrade Training
    Five Skill Level Upgrade Training
    Seven Skill Level Upgrade Training
  Section F, AETC Course Objective ..................................................................................................... 17
    Introduction
    Objective Measurement
    Objective Standard
    Proficiency Level

  Section G, Course Objectives List ........................................................................................................ 18
    Course Objective
  Section H, Support Material.................................................................................................................. 18
    Support Material
                                                                                2
 Section I. Training Course Index .......................................................................................................... 20
   Purpose
   Air Force In-Residence Course
   Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning Courses (AFIADL)
   Exportable Courses
   Courses under Development
   Course under Revision

 Section J, MAJCOM Unique Requirements ...................................................................................... 23

 Section K, Specialty Training Standard (STS) .................................................................................. 23
   Implementation
   Purpose
   Qualitative Requirements
   Job Qualification Standard
   Specialty Training Standard (STS)
   Recommendations


OPR: 365 TRS/TRR
Certified by: AF/A4LF
Supersedes: CFETP 2A3X2, 15 Oct 07
Pages: 115




                                                                     3
Part I

Preface

 1. This CFETP is a comprehensive education and training document that identifies life-cycle
education/training requirements, training support resources, and minimum core task
requirements for this specialty. The CFETP provides personnel a clear career path to success
and instills rigor in all aspects of career field training. To read, review, or print a copy of current
CFETP, go to http://www.e-publishing.af.mil. NOTE: Civilians occupying associated
positions will use Part II to support duty position qualification training.

 2. CFETP Parts. The CFETP consists of multiple sections; supervisors use the sections to
plan, manage, and control training within the career field. Using guidance provided in the
CFETP ensures individuals in this specialty receive effective and efficient training at the
appropriate point in their career. This plan will enable us to train today’s work force for
tomorrow’s jobs.

2.1. Sections provide information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C
associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, training, experience,
and other). Section D indicates resource constraints. Some examples are funds, manpower,
equipment, facilities. Section E identifies transition training guide requirements to support
career field restructures. Section F provides an explanation of Air Education and Training
Command (AETC) course objectives and trained proficiency levels. Section G contains course
objective list and guidance for obtaining training standards supervisors use to determine if
airmen have satisfied training requirements. Section H identifies available support materials,
such as Qualification Training Package (QTP), which may be developed to support proficiency
training. These QTPs are identified in http://www.e-publishing.af.mil. Section I identifies a
training course index supervisors use to determine resources available to support training;
included here are both mandatory and optional courses. Section J identifies MAJCOM unique
training requirements supervisors use to determine additional training requirements unique to the
MAJCOM. Section K identifies the STS and includes duties, tasks, technical references to
support training, AETC conducted training, wartime course/core task, and correspondence
course requirements.

 3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive
effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan will enable us to
train today’s work force for tomorrow’s jobs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use the
CFETP to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.




                                                    4
ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training (AT). Formal course, which provides individuals who are qualified in one
or more positions of their Air Force specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance
their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career airmen at the advanced level of
the AFS.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list, which describes a
particular job type or duty position. Supervisors use AFJQSs to document task qualifications.
The tasks on AFJQS are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive,
multipurpose document covering the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field.
It outlines a logical growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career
field training identifiable, to eliminate duplication, and to ensure this training is budget
defensible.

Certification. A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required
standards.

Certification Official. A person the supervisor assigns to determine an individual’s ability to
perform a task to required standards.

Continuation Training. Additional training exceeding requirements with emphasis on present
or future duty assignments.

Core Task. A task Air Force Career Field Managers (AFCFM) identify as a minimum
qualification requirement within an Air Force Specialty regardless of duty position. Core task
identified with an *R are optional for AFRC and ANG.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication identifying the tasks and knowledge
requirements, and respective standards provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level in this
career field specialty. Supervisors use the COL to assist in conducting graduate evaluations in
accordance with AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program.

Critical Tasks. Tasks that have been identified by the work center supervisor as having a
detrimental effect on mission accomplishment if not performed correctly. Critical tasks may or
may not be the same as core tasks but are mandatory if identified as "critical" to the individual’s
position by the supervisor or work center.

Distance Learning. Includes video teleseminar (VTS), video teletraining (VTT), and computer-
based training (CBT). Formal courses that a training wing or a contractor develops for export to
a field location (in place of resident training) for trainees to complete without the on-site support
of the formal school instructor. For instance, courses are offered by Air Force Institute of
Technology, Air University, and Training Detachment.



                                                  5
Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

En Route (PCS-Associated) Training. The training of students undergoing a permanent
change of station (PCS) while in temporary duty (TDY) status.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video,
or other necessary means to supplement training.

Field Technical Training (Type 4). Special or regular on-site training conducted by a training
detachment (TD) or by a mobile training team (MTT).

Go/No Go Level. In OJT, the stage at which an individual has gained enough skill, knowledge
and experience to either be qualified to perform an identified task without assistance or cannot
perform the task without assistance.

Initial Skills Training. A formal resident course, which results in award of a 3-skill level Air
Force specialty code (AFSC).

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly process for developing,
validating, and reviewing instructional programs that ensures personnel are taught the knowledge
and skills essential for successful job performance.

Maintenance Information System (MIS). Systems and applications that support and enable
maintenance business processes. Used to document maintenance actions. Provides maintenance
supervisors with products to evaluate organizational effectiveness and aid in decision-making
processes at all levels.

Maintenance Supply Liaison (MSL). Monitors overall maintenance and supply interface,
resolves supply support problems, and coordinates supply-related training needs.

Master Task Listing (MTL). Document maintained within the work center that identifies all
tasks performed in a work center. This includes core, critical, position qualification, and wartime
tasks. This document can be automated.

Master Training Plan. A comprehensive training plan for a work center. It can include the
MTLs, QTPs, AFJQS, CFETP, task breakdowns, commercial publications and any other
document that supports training.

Mobile Training Team (MTT). Instructors, trainers, training aids, and operational equipment
that formal schools send to bases or operating locations.

Mission Ready Technician. A formal course which results in an airman receiving hands-on
training and task certification of selected tasks so the individual will be immediately productive
upon arrival at their first duty section.

Occupational Survey Report (OSR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational
survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.



                                                 6
On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training at the duty location used to
certify personnel for both skill level upgrade and duty position qualification.

Plan of Instruction (POI). An AETC course document used for course planning, organization,
operation, and validation. It provides course objectives, level of training provided, planned
times, sequence of instruction, required resources, and specifies how course objectives are
measured.

Position Qualification Training. Training designed to qualify an airman in a specific position
and is accomplished after upgrade training.

Proficiency Training. Additional training either in residence or exportable advanced training
courses, or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge
beyond the minimum required for upgrade.

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an
airman in a specific duty position. This training occurs both during and after the upgrade raining
process. It’s designed to provide the performance skill/knowledge training required to do the
job.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional package designed for use at the unit
to qualify, or aid qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of equipment. It may
be printed, computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and
equipment that preclude desired training from being accomplished.

Specialized Training Package and COMSEC Qualification Training Package. A composite
of lesson plans, test material, instructions, policy, doctrine, and procedures necessary to conduct
training. These packages are prepared by AETC, approved by National Security Agency (NSA),
and administered by qualified communications security (COMSEC) maintenance personnel.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force
specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge an airman may be expected to perform or to know on
the job. It serves as a contract between the AETC and the functional user to show which of the
overall training requirements for an Air Force specialty code are taught in formal schools, career
development courses, and exportable courses.

Supplemental Training. Training for a portion of an AFS without a change in AFSC. Formal
training on new equipment, methods, and technology that are not suited for on-the-job training.

Training Detachment (TD). An AETC detachment that provides maintenance-oriented
technical training, at an operational location, on specific systems and their aerospace ground
equipment. A TD aims to qualify personnel on new equipment or in new techniques and
procedures, maintain proficiency and to increase skill and knowledge, acquaint personnel with
specific systems, and keep personnel aware of changing concepts and requirements.

Upgrade Training (UGT). A mixture of mandatory courses, task qualification, QTPs, and
CDCs required for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, or 9-skill levels.

                                                 6
Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum that is convened and chaired on a
recurring basis by the AFCFM, designed to review the appropriate CFETP and its attachments.
The purpose is to ensure currency, accuracy and completeness of content, to include specific
formal career ladder training requirements. Workshops are co-chaired by AETC Training
Pipeline Manager and include MAJCOM AFSC Functional Managers, AETC training personnel
and Subject Matter Experts (SMEs).

SECTION A - GENERAL INFORMATION

 1. Purpose. This CFETP provides the information necessary for AFCFM, MFMs, commanders,
training managers, supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective
career field training program. This plan outlines the training that individuals in the 2A3X2
AFSC should receive to develop and progress throughout their career. This CFETP identifies
initial skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency training. Initial skills training is
the AFS specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon retraining
into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. This training is conducted by AETC at Sheppard
AFB TX. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements,
and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, and 9-skill
levels. Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an
airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the
upgrade training process. It’s designed to provide the performance skills/knowledge required to
do the job. Advanced training is formal specialty training used for selected airmen. Proficiency
training is additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training courses, or on-
the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the
minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP has several purposes, some are:
1.1. Serve as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field training
program. Also, it’s used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an
individual’s career.
1.2. Identify tasks and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommend education/training throughout each phase of an individual's career.
1.3. List training courses available in the specialty and identifies sources of training and the
training delivery method.
1.4. Identify major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired career
field training process.

2. Uses of the CFETP. This plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure
comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.
2.1. AETC training personnel will develop/revise formal resident, non-resident, TD, and
exportable training based upon requirements established by the users and documented in the
CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining the
resources needed to provide the identified training.
2.2. MFMs ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial, upgrade,
and proficiency requirements. Identified requirements can be satisfied by OJT, resident training,
contract training, or exportable courses. MAJCOM developed training, to support this AFSC,
must be identified for inclusion in this plan and must not duplicate other available training
resources.
2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan.
The list of courses will be used as a reference to support training.



                                                  7
3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approving authority. The using MAJCOM
representatives and AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field
training requirements. The AETC training manager for the 2A3X2 AFSC will initiate an annual
review of this document by AETC and MAJCOM AFSC functional managers to ensure currency
and accuracy. Using the list of courses they will eliminate duplicate training.

SECTION B - CAREER FIELD PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION

4. Specialty Descriptions:
4.1. Specialty Summary (Apprentice-Craftsman): Maintains CV-22, F-16, and RQ-4 avionics
systems and F-22, F-35, MQ-1 and MQ-9 avionics and electrical & environmental (A&E)
systems at the organizational level. Troubleshoots, inspects, removes, installs, repairs, modifies,
and operates aircraft A&E systems, components, and associated support equipment. Performs and
supervises general aircraft servicing and handling procedures. Related DoD Occupational
Subgroup: 160200/1 19800/1 95000.

4.2. Duties and Responsibilities: Refer to the Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory
(AFECD) for additional information.
4.2.1. Inspects, troubleshoots, operates, and maintains aircraft avionics or A&E systems,
subsystems, components, and test equipment using aircraft controls, displays, and portable
maintenance aid (PMA) to determine operational condition. Interprets equipment operating
characteristics to isolate malfunctions in systems such as: attack control, core processing, radar,
infrared, laser, controls and displays, flight controls, vehicle management, communication,
navigation, identification, satellite communications, electronic warfare (EW), electrical power
and distribution, gas turbine compressor, auxiliary power, landing gear, anti-skid, nose wheel
steering, lighting, fire and overheat warning, fire extinguishing, fuel indicating, liquid cooling,
air conditioning, bleed air, cabin pressure, auxiliary pressurization, oxygen, and aircraft utility
systems. Uses technical data to trace wiring diagrams and signal data flow. Uses integrated
diagnostics, built-in test functions, electronic measuring equipment, aerospace ground equipment
(AGE), support equipment (SE), and hand tools.
4.2.2. Removes and installs systems components. Performs and supervises alignment,
calibration, modifications, and boresight of avionics or A&E systems. Uploads operational
software into systems components. Removes and installs line replaceable modules (LRMs), line
replaceable units (LRUs), and other systems components. Enters maintenance data into
automated systems.
4.2.3. Inspects, analyzes, and evaluates avionics or A&E systems to determine operational status.
Interprets inspection findings and determines adequacy of corrective actions. Reviews
maintenance management publications and procedures. Recommends methods of improved
equipment performance and maintenance procedures. Ensures compliance with technical
publications and directives.

4.3. Specialty Qualifications.
4.3.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of electronics, microprocessors, and mechanics
relating to avionics or A&E systems. This includes knowledge of the following principles: gyro,
synchro and servo, motion and power transmission by mechanical and electrical means,
electromechanical and electro-optical, and theory of flight. Further knowledge is mandatory of
subsystem integration between avionics and A&E systems, digital computer logic, aircraft
electrical and hydraulic systems, use, care, and interpretation of test and measurement devices,
concepts and application of maintenance directives, meaning of symbols utilized in wiring
diagrams, blueprints and schematics, and proper handling, use, and disposal of hazardous waste
                                                8
and material.
4.3.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school courses in physics,
mathematics, and computers is desirable.
4.3.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2A332X, completion of the applicable suffix apprentice course is
mandatory.
4.3.4. Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:
4.3.4.1. 2A352. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A332X. Also, experience in
installing line replaceable modules/units, practical use of system theory, experience in
maintaining avionics or A&E systems, and utilizing AGE necessary to maintain avionics or A&E
systems.
4.3.4.2. 2A372. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A352. Also, experience in isolating
malfunctions, and performing or supervising functions such as malfunction analysis or
installation of avionics or A&E systems.
4.3.5. Other. The following are mandatory as indicated:
4.3.5.1. For entry into this specialty:
4.3.5.1.1. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examination Standards.
4.3.5.1.2. See Attachment 39 for additional entry requirements.
4.3.5.2. Specialty requires routine access to Secret material or similar environment. For award
and retention of AFSCs 2A3X2, completion of a current National Agency Check, Local Agency
Checks and Credit (NACLC) according to AFI 3 1-501, Personnel Security Program
Management.

4.4. *Specialty Shredouts:
  Suffix                                                                Portion of AFS to Which Related

   A ............................................................................................. F-22, F-35
   B .............................................................................................. F-16, CV-22, MQ-1, MQ-9, RQ-4

NOTE: Suffixes A and B are applicable to the 1- and 3- skill levels only.

4.5. Apprentice and Journeyman: Maintains on-equipment integrated avionic systems.
Inspects, services, and performs general aircraft handling procedures. Operates avionic systems
by using proper controls and displays to determine operational condition. Identifies avionic
systems malfunctions. Interprets equipment operation characteristics to isolate malfunctions in
systems such as attack control, instrument, flight control, communication, navigation,
identification, and penetration aids. Traces data flow and wiring diagrams. Uses built-in test
functions, electronic measuring equipment, Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE), and Support
Equipment (SE). Removes and installs line replaceable units (LRUs) and aligns systems.
Boresights systems. Removes, installs, and performs operational checks of externally mounted
avionic and electronic countermeasures equipment. Performs modifications. Maintains and
posts entries on inspection and maintenance records. Records meter readings and other pertinent
data on equipment maintenance data collection forms. Enters data into automated systems. Uses
Integrated Maintenance Data System (IMDS). Recommends methods to improve equipment
performance and maintenance procedures. Adheres to published guidelines and training
requirements. Handles, labels, and disposes of hazardous materials and waste according to
environmental standards.

4.6. Craftsman: Inspects, analyzes, troubleshoots, and maintains aircraft avionic systems,
associated components, subsystems, and test equipment. Advises on problems operating and
maintaining aircraft avionic systems, associated electronic components, subsystems, and test
                                                           9
equipment. Solves maintenance problems using wiring diagrams, schematic diagrams, and
technical publications, and by analyzing operating characteristics. Determines proper
maintenance procedures to repair and return systems and components to maximum efficiency.
Diagnoses malfunctions and recommends corrective actions. Checks installed and repaired
components to ensure compliance with technical publications and directives. Evaluates
requirements and prepares quality deficiency reports. Supervises and evaluates job performance
and maintenance techniques used to interpret, operate, troubleshoot, remove, repair, service,
overhaul, and install aircraft avionic systems and components. Provides training and task
certification for skill level advancement. Ensures compliance with published safety guidelines.
Ensures hazardous materials and waste are handled, stored, and disposed of according to
environmental standards.

4.7. Superintendent: Manages maintenance activities engaged in planning, inspecting, repairing,
and servicing tactical aircraft and support equipment. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 600

5. Skill and Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to
the superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force's ability to accomplish its mission.
It’s essential that everyone involved in training do his/her part to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an
effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will ensure each individual
receives necessary training at appropriate points in their career. Enlisted personnel must complete all
mandatory training requirements as outlined in AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program; ECD;
and this CFETP for award of the 3-,5-,7-, and 9-skill levels. The following outlines the minimum
requirements for award of these skill levels:
5.1. Apprentice (3-level): Upon completion of initial skills training, a trainee will work with a trainer
to enhance their knowledge and skills. They will utilize the Career Development Courses, Task
Qualification Training, and available exportable courses for continued advancement. Once task
certified, a trainee may perform the task unsupervised. Apprentices can be considered for
appointment as unit trainers after completion of a formal trainer course. The 1- and 3-skill levels are
assigned shred identifiers as shown below for initial-skills course scheduling and assignment purposes.
The shred is removed at the 5-skill level. Shred identifiers are provided in the ECD.
5.2. Journeyman (5-level): Individuals must complete formal 5-level OJT training. This training
involves completion of the 2A352 CDC, as well as completion of all identified core task qualification
training and any other required duty position training. They must also complete a minimum of 12
months in upgrade training (UGT). Individuals in retraining status (TSC ’F’) must complete a
minimum of 9 months in upgrade training. Journeymen may be assigned job positions such as quality
assurance and various staff positions. Journeymen should complete available FTD courses and
MAJCOM specific training. Journeymen will be considered for appointment as unit trainers after
completion of the Air Force Training Course. Individuals will use their CDCs to prepare for
promotion testing. They should also consider continuing their education toward a CCAF degree.
5.3. Craftsman (7-level): Individuals must have a minimum rank of staff sergeant, complete the
mandatory CDCs, and must complete formal 7-level OJT including completion of all identified core
task qualification training and any other required duty position training. They must also attend the 7-
skill level craftsman course (if available). For award of the 7-skill level individuals must complete a
minimum of 12 months in UGT. Individuals in retraining status (TSC ‘G’) must complete a
minimum of 6 months in upgrade training. A 7-level can expect to fill various supervisory and
management positions such as shift leader, element chief, flight/section chief, and task certifier. They
can also be assigned to work in staff positions. Craftsmen should take courses to obtain added
knowledge on management of resources and personnel. Continued academic education through
CCAF and higher degree programs is encouraged.
5.4. Superintendent (9-level): A 9-level can be expected to fill positions such as flight
                                               10
NCOIC, production supervisor, and various staff NCOIC jobs. Additional training in the areas of
budget, manpower, resources, and personnel management should be pursued through continuing
education. Additional higher education and completion of courses outside their career AFSC are
also highly encouraged.

 6. Training Decisions: The CFETP uses a building-block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Integrated Avionics Systems career
field specialty. The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet these training
requirements. The strategy must ensure we develop affordable training, eliminate duplication, and
prevent a fragmented approach to training. The following training decisions were made by MFMs
and SMEs at the career field specialty U&TW held at Sheppard AFB, 11- 14 May 09.
6.1. Initial Skills: Three-Level Course Review/Upgrade Training: The working group decided to
continue shredded 3-level resident courses, J3ABR2A332A027A (F-22A), and J3ABR2A332B026A
(F-16/CV-22/MQ-1/RQ4/MQ-9). The new course is expected to begin January 2011. Current plans
are to start a new F-35 3-level course, J3ABP2A332A028A, (F-35A) in FY 13.

6.2. Five Level Upgrade Training: The STS was revised to provide additional training and identify
core tasks for upgrade to the 5-level. The 5-level CDCs will add CV-22 training requirements based
on additions to the STS. Requirements for the 5- level require completion of the 5-level CDC,
2A352G and 2A352H, and completion of the core tasks specified in the STS.

6.3. Seven Level Upgrade Training: There is no 7-level resident course. 7-level CDCs include
the two-volume CDC 2AX7X and two-volume CDC 2A372 which will continue virtually
unchanged.

6.4. Continuation Training. The purpose of the continuation training program is to provide
additional training exceeding minimum upgrade training requirements with emphasis on present and
future duty positions. To define and standardize this training, MAJCOMs develop a continuation
training program that ensures individuals in the Integrated Avionics Systems career field specialty
receive necessary training at the appropriate point in their career and/or base of assignment through
FTD/Supplemental/Crossover courses. The training program identifies both mandatory and optional
training requirements.

 7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Academic. Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon
completion of basic military training. CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate in
Applied Sciences Degree. In addition, CCAF offers the following:

 8. 7.1. Occupational Instructor Certification. Upon completion of instructor qualification
training, consisting of the Basic Instructor Course (BIC) and supervised practice teaching, CCAF
instructors who possess an associate’s degree or higher may be nominated by their school
commander/commandant for certification as an occupational instructor.




                                             11
7.2. Trade Skill Certification: When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill
certification is awarded for the primary occupational specialty. The college uses a competency
based assessment process for trade skill certification at one of four proficiency levels: Apprentice,
Journeyman, Craftsman/Supervisor, or Master Craftsman/Manager. All are transcribed on the CCAF
transcript.
7.3. Degree Requirements: All airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program to
receive an Associates in Applied Technology Degree in Avionic Systems Technology. Prior to
completing an associate degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the following requirements
must be met:
                                                                         Semester Hours

Technical Core ...................................................................................................................... 24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies ........................................................................ 6
Physical Education .............................................................................................................................. 4
General Education ............................................................................................................................. 15
Program Elective ............................................................................................................................... 15
  Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and Military Studies;
  or General Education
Total .............................................................................................................................................. 63

7.3.1. Technical Education: (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of
Technical Core subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied from
Technical Core/Technical Elective courses.
7.3.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Professional
military education and/or civilian management courses.
7.3.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of
Basic Military Training.
7.3.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Courses must meet the definition of General
Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF General Catalog.
7.3.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (LMMS) or applicable General Education
subjects/courses meeting application criteria. Nine semester hours of CCAF technical credit
otherwise not applicable (unrelated) to current degree program may also be applied. See the
CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science degree for this
specialty. Additional hours may be added to this area above the maximum 15 semester hours to
bring the student to a total of 73 semester hours for graduation, if the student’s LMMS
requirement was fulfilled by a four or five semester hour version of an Air Force PME course.

7.4. AETC Instructor Requirements: Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that
is encouraged for all. Individuals desiring to become an Air Education and Training Command
instructor should be actively pursuing an associate's degree. It is necessary for instructors to
have at least an associate's degree so the Technical School can maintain accreditation through
the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.

7.5. Other Certification Programs. CCAF is actively pursuing other licensure and
certification opportunities related to specific career fields. To learn more about other
certification opportunities visit CCAF’s website at
 http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/index.asp


                                                                            12
8. Career Field Path.
8.1. Enlisted Career Path. Table 8.1 identifies career milestones for the 2A332 Air Force
specialty.

                                         Table 8.1 Enlisted Career Path
                                                                        Grade Requirements

 Education and Training Requirements                     Rank    Average       Earliest      High Year Of Tenure
                                                                 Sew-On        Sew-On              (HYT)
 Basic Military Training School
 Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)             Amn     6 months
                                                         A1C    16 months
 Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level) -                 Amn     6 months
 -Minimum 12 months OJT (9 months for                    A1C    16 months
 retrainees)                                             SrA      3 years     28 months            10 Years
 -Complete all 5-level core tasks on one MDS
   and all duty position-related tasks identified
   by supervisor.
 - Complete mandatory CDCs.
 Airman Leadership School (ALS)
 - Must be a SrA with 48 months time in
   service or be a SSgt Selectee and have 1 year
   of retainability.
 - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt
   sew-on (Active Duty Only).
                     Trainer                                                    Certifier
 - Recommended by supervisor.                        - At least a SSgt witha 5-skill level or civilian equivalent.
 - Qualified and certified to perform the task to    - Someone other thanthe trainer.
   be trained.                                       - Qualified and certified to perform the task being certified.
 - Attend the Air Force Training Course.             - Attend the Air Force Training Course.

 Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)                    SSgt   6.1 years       3 years            20 Years
 - Minimum rank of SSgt.
 - Complete all 5- and 7-level core tasks on one
   MDS and all duty position-related tasks
   identified by supervisor.
 - Minimum 12 months OJT (6 months for
 retrainees).
 - Complete mandatory CDCs.
 Noncommissioned Officer Academy
 (NCOA)                                                  TSgt   14.1 years      5 years             22 Years
 - Must be a TSgt, MSgt Selectee, or MSgt .
 - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for             MSgt   18.4 years      8 years             24 Years
   MSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).

 USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)                     SMSgt       21 years       11 years           26 Years
 - Must be a MSgt, SMSgt, or SMSgt
 Selectee .
 - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
 SMSGT sew-on.
 Upgrade To Superintendent (9-Skill                  CMSgt      23.3 years      14 years           30 Years
 Level) - Minimum rank of SMSgt.




                                                    13
SECTION C - SKILL LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

 9. Purpose: Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of tasks
and knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for
each skill level in general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award,
and retention of each skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements are
identified in the STS in Part II, Sections A and B of this CFETP.

10. Specialty Qualification: The various skill levels in this career field are defined in terms of
tasks and knowledge proficiency requirements for each skill level. They are stated in broad
general terms and establish the standards of performance. The specific task and knowledge
training requirements are identified in the STS. Unit work centers must develop a structured
training program to ensure the following requirements are met.

10.1. Apprentice Level Training:
10.1.1. Specialty Qualification: To perform duties at the apprentice level, an individual must
be able to understand basic system theory of operation and be able to perform certain on-
equipment task certification items identified in the STS. Individuals must be competent on all 3-
level STS procedures and tasks, and need only a spot check of all completed work.
10.1.1.1. Knowledge: An apprentice must be able to use technical data, common hand tools,
and special test equipment. Apprentices must be qualified to remove and install system LRUs,
perform operational checks, isolate malfunctions in avionic systems to the fault identification
level, use support equipment, trace simple signal/data flow of system schematic diagrams, and
document maintenance actions in the automated data system.
10.1.1.2. Education: For entry into this specialty, completion of high school with courses in
basic electronics, mathematics, general science and physics is desirable.
10.1.1.3. Training: Training to the three-skill level will require completion of the initial skills
courses which include Electronic Principles conducted at Keesler AFB, MS and AFSC specific
training conducted at Sheppard AFB, TX.
10.1.1.4. Experience: There is no experience necessary for entry into AFSC 2A3X2.
10.1.1.5. Other:
10.1.1.5.1. For entry into this specialty, normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123 is
mandatory.
10.1.1.5.2. For award and retention of AFSC 2A332, eligibility for a Secret security clearance is
required according to AFI 3 1-501.
10.1.2. Training Sources: The initial skills courses will provide the required knowledge and
qualification training. Training encompasses basic electronic principles, system theory and
operation, system components, and component removal and installation. Additionally,
introduction to maintenance concepts, general flightline maintenance practices, use of technical
publications, maintenance documentation, and support equipment are provided.
10.1.3. Implementation: Upon graduation from Basic Military Training (BMT), airmen are
assigned to Keesler AFB, MS for completion of Course E3AQR2A332A027A/
E3AQR2A332B026B, Electronic Principles. Airmen will then go to Sheppard AFB, TX to
complete one of the following two courses:
J3ABR2A332A027A (F-22A) or J3ABR2A332B026A (F-16/CV-22/MQ-1/RQ-4/MQ-9), Integrated
Avionic Systems, depending on their airframe assignment. The 3-level graduate will have either
an A or B shred until completion of their 5-level upgrade. Upon graduation from this course,
airmen should attend appropriate airframe specific FTD courses. Current plans are to implement
                                               14
F-35 training in January 2013. Students will complete BMT and proceed to Sheppard AFB TX
for a prerequisite Aircraft and Avionic Systems Fundamentals course J3AQR2A332A028A and
then to Eglin AFB FL for completion of course J3ABP2A332A028A, F-35 Integrated Avionic
Systems Apprentice.

10.2. Journeyman Level Training:
10.2.1. Specialty Qualification: In addition to the 3-level qualifications, a 5-level must possess
the knowledge and skills necessary to maintain avionic systems.
10.2.1.1. Knowledge: A 5-level must be qualified on inspecting aircraft avionic systems,
removal and installation of LRUs, correcting malfunctions, performing operational checks and
Built-in Tests (BIT), and the use and care of support equipment. They must be able to handle,
label, and dispose of hazardous materials and waste according to environmental standards.
10.2.1.2. Education: There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for
the apprentice level.
10.2.1.3. Training: Training: Requirements for the Journeyman level require completion of the
5-level CDC, 2A352G and 2A352H, and completion of the core tasks specified in the STS.
10.2.1.4. Experience: Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A332. Also, experience in
functions such as isolating malfunctions, installing LRUs, and using AGE necessary to maintain
avionic systems.
10.2.1.5. Other:
10.2.1.5.1. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123 is mandatory.
10.2.1.5.2. For award and retention of AFSC 2A352, eligibility for a Secret security clearance is
required according to AFI 3 1-501.
10.2.2. Training Sources: The 5-level CDCs provide the career knowledge training required.
Qualification training and OJT will provide training and qualification on the core tasks identified
in the STS. The CDCs are written to build from the trainee's current knowledge base, and
provides more in-depth knowledge to support OJT requirements.
10.2.3. Implementation: Training to the 5-level is performed by the units, utilizing the STS
and CDCs. Upgrade to the 5-level requires completion of the basic 2A352 and appropriate
CDCs and all core tasks. Emphasis must be placed on avionic system core tasks and continuation
training in all avionic systems prior to any Cross Utilization Training (CUT) in other aircraft
related tasks.

10.3. Craftsman Level Training:
10.3.1. Specialty Qualification: In addition to the 5-level qualifications, an individual must
possess advanced skills and knowledge in theory, concepts, principles and application of
avionics systems.
10.3.1.1. Knowledge: Mandatory knowledge includes electronic, microelectronic, gyro,
synchro, mechanical, and indicator principles, theory, and application. Other knowledge
includes, factors involved in transmitting and receiving within the radio frequency and radar
frequency ranges; digital computer logic; using and interpreting test and measurement devices;
principles of aerodynamics and motion, and power transmission by mechanical and electronic
means; electronic combat principles; and concepts and application of maintenance directives.
The 7-level must be able to supervise and train personnel to maintain avionic systems. They
must be able to plan, schedule, and organize maintenance to ensure effective utilization of
available resources. Qualification is required on advanced repair, inspection, troubleshooting,
and diagnostic techniques. Historical documentation analysis is also required for all 7-levels.
10.3.1.2. Education: There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for
                                              15
the apprentice level.
10.3.1.3. Training: Completion of mandatory CDCs is mandatory for upgrade to AFSC 2A372.
10.3.1.4. Experience: Completion of all required 7-level core tasks as identified in the STS,
and qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A352. Also, experience performing or supervising
functions such as installing, maintaining, or repairing aircraft avionic systems.
10.3.1.5. Other:
10.3.1.5.1. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examination and Standards,
is mandatory.
10.3.1.5.2. For award and retention of AFSC 2A372, eligibility for a Secret security clearance
according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Management Program.
10.3.2. Training Sources: Seven-level upgrade training will be conducted by certified trainers
using AF core tasks, unit/MAJCOM specific courses, 7-level CDCs. The 7-level CDC is written
to provide advanced management and supervisory knowledge, and troubleshooting skills.
10.3.3. Implementation: Upgrade to the 7-level will require completion of all 5- and 7-level
core tasks, all CDCs, and completion of 12 months OJT as an SSgt selectee (6 months for a
retrainee).

10.4. Superintendent Level Training:
10.4.1. Specialty Qualification: In addition to 7-level qualifications, individuals must possess
advanced skills and knowledge of concepts and principles in the management of aircraft systems
and maintenance.
10.4.1.1. Knowledge: In addition to 7-level qualifications, an individual must possess advanced
skills and knowledge of concepts and principles in the management of aircraft maintenance. The
9-level must be an effective leader with the ability to forecast, budget and manage funds. Also,
they must be knowledgeable of federal and local environmental standards and ensure adherence
to the proper handling and disposal of hazardous materials. Also required is the ability to
evaluate maintenance, interpret and resolve technical problems, and to analyze system and
component failures and inspection results. Mandatory knowledge in electrical and mechanical
principles applying to aircraft and SE; concepts and application of maintenance directives;
maintenance data reporting; interpreting and use of maintenance data reports and technical
orders; Air Force supply procedures; resource management;
10.4.1.2. Education: There are no additional requirements beyond those defined for the
apprentice level.
10.4.1.3. Training: For award of AFSC 2A390 promotion to SMSgt is mandatory.
10.4.1.4. Experience: For award of AFSC 2A390, qualification in and possession of AFSC
2A371, 2A372, or 2A373X is mandatory. Also experience is mandatory managing or directing
repair functions such as inspecting and maintaining aircraft and support equipment.
10.4.1.5. Other: There are no other Specialty Qualification requirements defined in the Air
Force Enlisted Classification Directory
https://gum.afpc.randolph.af.mil/cgi-bin/askafpc.cfg/php/enduser/ps
_std_adp.php?p_faqid=7504&p_sid=wN6B9e4k&p_lva=&pid=3350&cid1=3362&cid2=3366
(Enlisted Classification).
10.4.2. Training Sources: The senior NCO Academy and unit OJT will be used for training.
10.4.3. Implementation: The 9-level will be awarded after completing MAJCOM
requirements, unit OJT and promotion to SMSgt.




                                            16
SECTION D - RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS

 11. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies known resource constraints, which preclude
optimum/desired training from being developed or conducted. Included is a narrative
explanation of each resource constraint, an impact statement describing the effect on training, the
resources needed, and actions required to satisfy the training requirements.

12. Apprentice Level Training Constraints: There are no constraints.

13. Five Level Training Constraints: There are no 5-level constraints.

14. Seven-Level Training Constraints: There are no 7-level constraints.

SECTION E - TRANSITIONAL TRAINING GUIDE


 15. Three Skill Level Upgrade Training: The 2A332A initial skills course will be 80 days and
the 2A332B will remain at 94 days. The new/revised courses will be on-line August 2010.

 16. Five Skill Level Upgrade Training: The 5-level, Integrated Avionic Systems Apprentice
Journeyman CDCs (2A352G and 2A352H) are required for upgrade. All CDCs will be used
for SKT testing.
 17. Journeyman/Craftsman (5/7-Skill Level): Individuals are required to complete 2A372
and 2AX7X CDCs.

SECTION F – AETC COURSE OBJECTIVES

18. Introduction. Each proficiency coded STS task or knowledge item taught at the technical
school is measured through the use of an objective. An objective is a written instruction for the
student so he or she knows what is expected of them to successfully complete training on each
task. Each objective is comprised of a condition, behavior, and standard that states what is
expected of the student for each task or knowledge item. The condition is the setting in which
the training takes place (i.e. TOs, type of equipment, etc). The behavior is the observable portion
of the objective (i.e. perform an operational check). The standard is the level of performance
that is measured to ensure the STS proficiency code level is attained (i.e. “with no more than two
instructor assists”). AETC course objectives and associated information are published in the
Plan of Instruction (POI) for each of the courses identified in Section D, below, Training Course
Index.

19. Objective Measurement. Each objective uses letter codes(s) to identify how it is measured.
All objectives using the PC code to indicate a progress check is used to measure subject or task
knowledge. W indicates a comprehensive written test and is used to measure the subject or task
knowledge at the end of a block of instruction. PC/W indicates a subject or task knowledge
progress check and a separate measurement of both knowledge and performance elements using
a written test.




                                                17
20. Objective Standard. The standard for written examinations is 70%. Standards for
performance objectives are indicated in the objective and are also indicated on the individual
progress check checklist. The checklist is used by the instructor to document each student’s
progress, on each task. Instructor assistance is provided as needed during the progress check,
and students may be required to repeat all or part of the behavior until satisfactory performance
is attained. Students must satisfactorily complete all PCs prior to taking the written test.

21. Proficiency Level. Review column 4A of the STS to determine the proficiency level of a
particular task or knowledge item. Review the course objective list to determine which STS item
the objective supports. Review the Proficiency Code Key at the beginning of Attachment I, of
this CFETP for an explanation of the proficiency codes. Most task performances are taught to
the "2b" proficiency level which means the students can do most parts of the task, but does need
assistance on the hardest parts of the task (partially proficient). The student can also determine
step by step procedures for doing the task.


SECTION G – COURSE OBJECTIVE LIST
22. Course Objectives: A detailed listing of the initial skills and craftsman course objectives
may be obtained by submitting a written request to the AETC Training Manager (2A3X2), 365
TRS/TRR, 609 9th Ave, Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2335. Course descriptions can be found on
line in the Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA). The URL for ETCA is:
https://etca.randolph.af.mil/

SECTION H - SUPPORT MATERIAL
23. Purpose: Interactive Courseware (ICW) is available from the 367 TRS/TRSS at Hill AFB
Utah. To obtain more information, request a copy of the Courseware Catalog from 367 TRS,
6058 Aspen, Building 1295, Hill AFB UT 84056-5805. Their FAX number is DSN 777-0897
and their customer service number is DSN 777-0160. To request ordering information on
hardware, your MAJCOM training POC (for ACC, AMC, and ANG) is the first stop. For
personnel in other MAJCOMs, contact them directly and they will provide you the information
required for purchasing the item through them. If you decide to purchase the system, they will
FAX you the AF Form 616 to use for an example.
The following list of support materials is not all inclusive; however, it covers the most frequently
referenced areas. Support material is any training package designed to enhance the learning
process at any level of training. Refer to the Education and Training Course Announcements, for
formal courses listed below. Course announcements may be found on web site
https://etca.randolph.af.mil/




                                               18
23.1 FIELD TRAINING DETACHMENT (FTD) COURSES:
COURSE NUMBER          PDS                   TITLE                       OPR

J4ASF2A3X2A-006        751    F-16 C/D (Blks 40/42) (Attack Control)    372 TRS/TXC MSgt
                             (Cross)                                    Criss Jeffery
                                                                        Sheppard AFB, TX 76311 DSN
                                                                        736-6184

J4ASF2A3X2A-007        EDI    F-16 C/D (Blks 30/32) Attack Control      Same as above
                             (Cross)

J4ASF2A3X2A-008        ECI    F-16 C/D (Blks 50/52) Attack Control      Same as above
                             (Cross)

J4ASF2A3X2B-001        768    F-16 Instrument and Flight Controls       Same as above
                             (Cross) (Blks 40/42;50/52)

J4ASF2A3X2B-004        CLI   F-16 C/D Instrument and Flight
                             Controls (Blk 30/32 and earlier Aircraft   Same as above

J4AMP2A3X2C A26A I32         F-16 (Block 30) Communications,
                             Navigation and Penetrating Aids (Cross)    Same as above

J4AMP2A3X2C B26A I33         F-16 (Block 40/50) Communications,
                             Navigation and Penetrating Aids (Cross)    Same as above

                                                                        372 TRS/TXC MSgt
J4ASF2A2X0-002        XHV     F-22 Radar, Comm/Nav, Inst&EW             Mark Jones
                             (Cross)                                    Sheppard AFB, TX 76311 DSN
                                                                        736-5990


J4AMP2A2X0 A27A        I92   F-22 Antennas, Controls and Displays       Same as above

J4AMP2A6X6 A27A I98          F-22 Electrical System                     Same as above


J4AMP2A2X0-001        XHU F-22 Fiber Optic Wire Repair                  Same as above
J4AMP2A6X6 B27A XIK          F-22 Environmental                         Same as above

JCAZP2A3X2 021A OCA CV-22 Avionics                                      362 TRS


23.2. MAJCOM DEVELOPED COURSES: The following applicable Interactive Courseware is available from
the 367th TRS, Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805. 367 TRS Configuration Management can be reached at DSN 777-
0160 or FAX 777-0897.



                                                 19
       COURSE                                               TITLE

General Courses

00TVT0000                           FOD Prevention
00TVT0001                           Safety and Radio Frequency (RF) Radiation
00TIV000 1V1                        Troubleshooting Techniques
00TIV0002                           Aerospace Ground Equipment Training
00TCB0002V 1                        Multimeter Familiarization
00TIV0007                           Potential Hazards of Oxygen Enriched Environments
00CIV0008                           Use and Care of Type III Torque Wrenches
00CVT0009                           Torque Wrench, Use and Care
00TIV1000                           Aircraft Marshaling

Block 40 Courses

16LIV0002                           F-16 C/D LANTIRN O-Level Handling
16AIV1401                           F-16 C/D Block 40 Advanced Flight Controls
16GIV1401                           F-16/40 C/D Block 40 Digital Flight Controls
16AIV14A1                           F-16 C/D Rigging & Troubleshooting Flight Control Surface
16GIV2801                           F-16 C/D Block 40 Fuel Quantity
16AIV7401                           F-16 C/D APG-68 Radar
16GIV7403                           F-16 C/D Block 25-52Boresight Procedures
16GIV7404                           F-16/40 C/D Block 40 Up-Front Controls Integration
16AIV7405                           F-16 C/D Block 40 Avionics Integration
16TIV7405                           F-16 C/D Block 50 UFC Integration
16TIV7406                           F-16 C/D Block 50 Avionics Integration

Block 50 Courses

16TIV1402                           F-16 C/D Block 50 Advanced Flight Controls
16TIV1403                           F-16 Block 50 C/D Digital Flight Controls
16AIV14A1                           F-16 C/D Rigging & Troubleshooting Flight Control Surface
16TIV2802                           F-16 C/D Block 50 Fuel Quantity
16TIV7402                           F-16/50 C/D Block 50 APG-68 Radar
16GIV7403                           F-16 C/D Block 25-52Boresight Procedures
16TIV7405                           F-16 C/D Block 50 UFC Integration
16TIV7406                           F-16 C/D Block 50 Avionics Integration

SECTION I – TRAINING COURSE INDEX
24. Purpose: This index lists all mandatory Air Force in-residence, field, ECI, and exportable
courses used to support training for this specialty. Refer to Education Training Course
Announcements (ETCA), for information on AETC formal courses listed below. The internet site for
ETCA is: https://etca.randolph.af.mil.



                                             20
24.1. Air Force In-Residence Courses:

 COURSE NUMBER          PDS             TITLE                          OPR

 E3AQR2A332A027A/
 E3AQR2A332B026B PO4              Electronic Principles Course      332 TRS/TTEP
                                                                    Mr. David Belcher
                                                                    Keesler AFB MS
                                                                    DSN: 597-3527

24.2. Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning Courses (AFIADL):

  COURSE NUMBER                          TITLE                            OPR

     2A352G             Integrated Avionic System Journeyman          365 TRS/TRR
                                                                      609th Ninth Ave
                                                                      Sheppard AFB TX
                                                                      76311-2335
                                                                      DSN 736-7899

     2A352H             Integrated Avionic Systems Journeyman         365 TRS/TRR
                                                                      Same as above




     2A372              Integrated Avionic Systems Craftsman         365 TRS/TRR
                                                                      Same as above



     2AX7X              Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman              362 TRS/TRR
                                                                     Sheppard AFB TX
                                                                     613 10th Ave
                                                                     76311-2352
                                                                     DSN 736-6184




                                           21
24.3. Exportable Courses:
COURSE NUMBER                     TITLE                                          OPR

J6AZWXXXXX0G1A               Air Force Technical Order (TO) System (Gen) 362 TRS
                                                                         613 10th Ave
                                                                         Sheppard AFB TX
                                                                         76311-2352
                                                                         DSN 736-1825

J6AZWXXXXX0A1A               Air Force TO System (Adv)                    Same as above


J6ANU00066-046               IMDS for Flightline                          Same as above


24.4. Courses Under Development. There are currently no courses under development.


24.5. Courses Under Revision:

COURSE NUMBER               PDS           TITLE                                  OPR

J3ABR2A332A027A             R3I      F-22 Avionic Systems Apprentice      Mr. Ron Devereaux
                                                                          365 TRS/TRR
                                                                          609 9th Ave
                                                                          Sheppard AFB, TX
                                                                          76311-2335
                                                                          DSN 736-7908


J3ABR2A332B026A             R3O      F-16 Avionic Systems Apprentice      Mr. Ron Devereaux
                                                                          365 TRS/TRR
                                                                          609 9th Ave
                                                                          Sheppard AFB, TX
                                                                          76311-2335
                                                                          DSN 736-7908




                                                  22
SECTION J – MAJCOM UNIQUE REQUIREMENTS
25. The Combat Air Forces Mandatory Course Listing (CAF/MCL) is below. MAJCOMs change
mandatory course requirements occasionally. Refer to the HQ ACC MMCL for additional
information. The below requirements are current as of May 2010

COURSE NUMBER                               TITLE                                        MDS

2A3X2A-A26A               F-16 C/D (Block 40/42)(Attack Control)                          F-16

2A3X2A-B26A               F-16 C/D (Blocks 40/42 50/52) (Attack Control)                  F-16

2A3X2B-A26A               F-16 Avionics Sys Inst & Flt Control                            F-16

2A3X2C-B26A               F-16 (Block 40/50) Comm, Nav, & Pen Aids                        F-16

2A3X2C-003                F-16 (Blk 30) Comm, Nav, & Pen Aids                             F-16

2A3X2C-A26A               F-16 (Blk 25, 30, 32) Comm, Nav & Pen. Aids                     F-16

J4AMP2A3X2-F27A           F-22 Avionics System Maintenance                                F-22

J4AMP2A3X2-E27C           F-22 Electrical System Maint (Conversion Training)              F-22

J4AMP2A3X2-D27B           F-22 Environmental System Maint (Conversion Training)           F-22

2A3X2-A35A                Global Hawk Avionics Systems                                    RQ-4

2A3X2-A34A                Predator Avionics Specialist                                  MQ-1B


SECTION K - SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

26. Implementation: This STS will be used for technical training provided by Air Education
and Training Command for classes beginning January 2011.
27. Purpose: As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:
27.1. Lists in column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common tasks,
knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and
7-skill level. All task/knowledge taught in the initial skills courses will be taught in the wartime
initial skills courses.
27.2. Identifies in column 2 (Core Tasks), by asterisk (*), specialty-wide training requirements.
MAJCOM Functional Managers, commanders, and supervisors may designate additional core
tasks as necessary. When designated, certify these core tasks using normal core task certification
procedures. Certification on all shop/flightline core tasks applicable to at least one Mission
Design Series (MDS) aircraft assigned must be completed for skill level upgrade. When a base
has multiple MDSs or blocks assigned, trainees are only required to complete core task training
on MDSs or blocks assigned to their unit of assignment.
                                              23
27.3. Provides in Column 3 for certification for OJT and is used to record completion of tasks
and knowledge training requirements. Use automated training management systems to document
technician qualifications, if available. Task certification must show a certification/completed
date.
27.4. Shows in Column 4 the formal training and correspondence course requirements and
shows the proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the
task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course. When two
codes are used in columns 4A and 4C( 1) (e.g. 2b/b), the first code is the established requirement
for resident training on the task/knowledge, and the second code indicates the level of training
provided in the course due to equipment shortages or other resource constraints. See
CADRE/AFSC/CDC listing maintained by the unit training manager for current CDC listing.
27.5. STS is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman
Promotion System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the USAF
Occupational Measurement Squadron by senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in
their career fields. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test
development team members as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are
based upon study references listed in the WAPS catalog. WAPS is not applicable to the Air
National Guard or Air Force Reserve.
27.6. Qualitative Requirements: Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to
indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career
development courses.
27.7. Job Qualification Standard: Becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job
training when placed in AF Form 623, Individual Training Record, and used according to AFI
36-2201. For OJT, the Tasks in Column 1 are trained and qualified to the Go/No Go level. "Go"
means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets local requirements for
accuracy, timeliness, and correct procedures. When used as a JQS, the following requirements
apply:
27.7.1. Documentation. Document and certify completion of training IAW AFI 36-2201.
Automated records, utilizing MIS reflecting this STS is highly encouraged.
27.7.1.1. Transcribing from Old CFETP to New CFETP. All AFJQSs and previous CFETPs
are replaced by this CFETP; therefore, transcribing of all training records to this CFETP STS is
mandatory. Use this CFETP STS (or automated STS) to identify and certify all past and current
qualifications. Document and certify all previous and current training IAW AFI 36-2201.
27.7.2. AF Form 797. When additional items not listed in the CFETP Part II are necessary in
the current duty assignment, enter them on the AF Form 797. Fill out the form IAW AFI 36-
2201.
27.7.3. Disposition of Training Records. Upon separation, retirement, commissioning, or
promotion to Master Sergeant (unless otherwise directed by the AFCFM, MAJCOM, unit
commander, or supervisor), give the individual their training records. Also, give individuals
their outdated training records after transcribing records. Do not remove any training records
that show past qualifications unless transcribed to a new CFETP/AFJQS. For example, an
individual working in a tool crib must maintain documented career field qualifications in case they
return to duty on the flightline or in the shop. Supervisors must exercise good judgment when
removing training records not needed in current duty positions.




                                              24
28. Recommendations: Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates to the
AETC training manager at 365 TRS/TRR, 609 9th Ave, Sheppard AFB TX, 76311-2335, DSN
736-7908 or e-mail ronald.devereaux@sheppard.af.mil. Reference specific STS paragraphs. For a
quick response to problems, call our customer service information line, DSN 736-2574.

BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE



OFFICIAL                    LOREN M. RENO
                            Lieutenant General, USAF
                            DCS, Logistics, Installation & Mission Support


11 Attachments:
1. Proficiency Code Key (Mandatory to file in training records)
2. Training Requirements, General
3. Training Requirements, F- 16 A/B Aircraft
4. Training Requirements, F- 16 C/D Aircraft
5. Training Requirements, F-22 Aircraft
6. Training Requirements, CV-22 Aircraft
7. Training Requirements, MQ-1
8. Training Requirements, RQ-4
9. Training Requirements, External PODs
10. Training Requirements, Electronic Principles (Optional)
11. Training Requirements, 2AX7X (For Information Only--Not for OJT)
.




                                             25
This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                       Initials (Written)             SSAN (last 4)

                                              Printed Name Of Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I


N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I



                                              QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                             Proficiency Code Key
                                    Scale      Definition: The individual
                                    Value
                                      1        Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (Extremely
                                               Limited)
                                      2        Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
          Task                        3        Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
      Performance                     4        Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task.
         Levels                                (Highly Proficient)
                                      a        Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)
        *Task                         b        Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)
                                      c        Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
      Knowledge                                (Operating Principles)
         Levels                       d        Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
                                      A        Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
      **Subject                       B        Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (Principles)
      Knowledge                       C        Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
        Levels                        D     Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)
** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

 X This mark is used alone in the course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.
 NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war time.




                                                                       26
This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                        Initials (Written)             SSAN

                                               Printed Name Of Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                       N/I

N/I                                                                       N/I

N/I                                                                       N/I

N/I                                                                       N/I

N/I                                                                       N/I


N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I



                                               QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                             Behavioral Statement STS Coding System

      Code                                                              Definition

       K           Subject Knowledge Training - The verb selection identifies the individual’s ability to identify
                   facts, state principles, analyze, or evaluate the subject
        P          Performance Training - Identifies that the individual has performed the task to the satisfaction
                   of the course; however, the individual may not be capable of meeting the field
                   requirements for speed and accuracy.

       pk          Performance Knowledge Training - The verb selection identifies the individual’s ability to
                   relate simple facts, procedures, operating principles, and operational theory for the task.

        -         No training provided in the course or CDC.


       X           Training is required but not provided due to limitations in resources.

Each STS element is written as a behavioral statement. The detail of the statement and verb selection reflects the level of training
provided by resident training and career development courses.




                                                                       27
                                        GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                               Indicate Training/Information
                                               Task                                                              Provided (See Note)

                                                        A      B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                          7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                   3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                             Skill
                                                                                                                    Level
                                                     5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                       Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC
NOTE1:   The apprentice course will use representative aircraft/trainers to accomplish the system specific training requirements as
         identified by the STS. The general section of the CFETP is used to code core competencies of the career field that will
         be taught in the apprentice course. The MDS specific attachments are to be used in conjunction with the general
         section to identify requirements and annotate qualifications.

NOTE2:   All task/knowledge taught in the initial skills courses will be taught in the wartime initial skills courses.

NOTE3:   Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revisions.

NOTE4:    Core Tasks are identified by an asterisk (*) in the appropriate column.
NOTE 5: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Manager to the AETC Training
         Manager, DSN: 736-7908.
2.1 CAREER LADDER STRUCTURE                                                                                           -       -        -         -
       TR:ECD; AFVA 39-1
2.2 SECURITY
2.2.1 Communications Security
     (COMSEC) TR:DOD 5200-1R; AFI
     21-109, AFI 31- 401; AFP 100-46;
     AF Security Classification Guide
2.2.1.1 Levels of classification                                                                                      -       -        -         -
2.2.1.2 Use MAJCOM/SOA CIs involved                                                                                   -       -        -         -
       in communications
2.2.1.3 Observe security precautions                                                                                  -       -        -         -
       involved in communications
2.2.2 Operations Security (OPSEC)
       TR:AFIs 10-1101, 31-101, 31-
       401,33-201
2.2.2.1 Definition of OPSEC                                                                                           -       -        -         -
2.2.2.2 History of OPSEC                                                                                              -       -        -         -
2.2.2.3 Relationship of OPSEC to other                                                                                -       -        -         -
       programs such as COMSEC,
       Information Security, and physical
       security
2.2.2.4 Common OPSEC vulnerabilities                                                                                  -       -        -         -
2.2.2.5 OPSEC significance of                                                                                         -       -        -         -
       unclassified data
2.2.2.6 Specific vulnerabilities of AFSC                                                                              -       -        -         -
       2A3X2
2.2.2.7 Physical security of resources                                                                                -       -        -         -
2.3 AF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY
  AND HEALTH (AFOSH)
  PROGRAM TR: AFIs 21-101, 90-
  821, 91-202, 91-301, 91-302;AFOSH
  Stds 48-8, 91-38, 127-12127-3 1, 127-
  43, 127-66, 127-100, 161-9, 161-10
2.3.1 Hazards and AFOSH standards of                                                                                A         -        -         -
       AFSC 2A3XX
2.3.2 Work area cleanliness and safety                                                                              A         -        -         -
2.3.3 Hazards of RF energy                                                                                          A         -        -         -
2.3.4 Report suspected RF overexposure                                                                              A         -        -         -
2.3.5 Safety practices when working with
      or in the vicinity of
2.3.5.1 Compressed gases                                                                                            A        A         -         -
2.3.5.2 RF sources                                                                                                  A        A         -         -

                                                                       28
                                   GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                              Indicate Training/Information
                                          Task                                                             Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

2.3.5.3 Electrical power                                                                                      A        A         -         -
2.3.5.4 Hydraulic power                                                                                       A        A         -         -
2.3.5.5 Hazardous liquids                                                                                     A        A         -         -
2.3.5.6 Portable fire extinguishers                                                                           A        -         -         -
2.3.5.7 High intensity sound                                                                                  A        A         -         -
2.3.5.8 Propellers                                                                                            A        A         -         -
2.3.6 Discuss FOD prevention                                                                                  A        A         -         -
2.3.7 Laser safety                                                                                            A        A         -         -
2.3.8 Hydrazine hazards                                                                                       A        A         -         -
2.3.9 Electro Explosive                                                                                        -       -         -         -
       Devices/Cartridge
2.4 HAZARDOUS COMM,
       MATERIAL, and WASTE
       TR:AFI 90-821
2.4.1 Initial Federal Hazard                                                                                    -       -        -         -
       Communication Training Program
       (FHCTP)
2.4.2 Identification                                                                                            -       -        -         -
2.4.3 Handling                                                                                                  -       -        -         -
2.4.4 Storage/Labeling                                                                                          -       -        -         -
2.4.5 Disposal                                                                                                  -       -        -         -
2.5 TECHNICAL PUBS TR: TOs 00-5-
       1, 00-5-2, 00-5-18, Applicable TOs
2.5.1 Function and application                                                                                A        B         -         -
2.5.2 Use wiring diagrams                                                                                    2b        -         -         -
2.5.3 Use technical orders to perform
2.5.3.1 Maintenance                              *                                                           2b        -         -         -
2.5.3.2 Inspections                                      *                                                    -        -         -         -
2.5.3.3 Time Compliance TO                                                                                    -        -         -         -
2.5.4 Report TO deficiencies                                                                                  -        B         -         -
2.5.5 TO Indexes                                                                                              -        -         -         -
2.6 SUPPLY DISCIPLINE TR: DoD
       7200-10, AFI23-110 and
       applicable command directives
2.6.1 Maintenance Supply Concept                                                                                -       -        -         -
2.6.2 Supply Documents Management                                                                               -       -        -         -
2.6.3 Equipment Account Management                                                                              -       -        -         -
2.6.4 Status of Reports and Training                                                                            -       -        -         -
       (SORTS)
2.6.5 Priority System                                                                                           -       -        -         -
2.6.6 Repair Cycle Assets                                                                                       -       -        -         -
2.6.7 Standard Base Supply System                                                                               -       -        -         -
       (SBSS)
2.6.8 Classified Assets Handling                                                                                -       -        -         -
2.6.9 Land Mobile Radios, Pagers, and                                                                           -       -        -         -
       Cell Phones
2.6.10 Property responsibility                                                                                 -       A         -         -
2.6.11 Supply principles                                                                                      A        A         -         -
2.6.12 Use condition tags                                                                                      -       A         -         -
2.6.13 Use issue/turn-in forms



                                                                 29
                                   GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                              Indicate Training/Information
                                          Task                                                             Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

2.6.13.1 AFTO Form 350                                                                                       2b        A         -         -
2.6.13.2 AF Form 2005                                                                                         -        -         -         -
2.6.13.3 Other forms                                                                                          -        -         -         -
2.6.14 Use Fed Log                                                                                            -        -         -         -
2.6.15 Depot Level Repairable                                                                                 -        -         -         -
2.6.16 Use supply products
2.6.16.1 D04                                                                                                    -       -        -         -
2.6.16.2 D18                                                                                                    -       -        -         -
2.6.16.3 M30                                                                                                    -       -        -         -
2.6.16.4 Other                                                                                                  -       -        -         -
2.7 SUPERVISION TR:ECD, AFIs 36-
       2503, 36-2907, 36-2618, 36-2406
       and applicable command directives
2.7.1 Orient new personnel                                                                                      -       -        -         -
2.7.2 Report of survey TR: DoD 72000M                                                                           -       -        -         -
2.7.3 Coordinate work with others                                                                               -       -        -         -
2.7.4 Plan and Schedule
2.7.4.1 Work assignments                                                                                        -       -        -         -
2.7.5 Assign
2.7.5.1 Maintenance and repair work                                                                             -       -        -         -
2.7.5.2 Personnel to positions                                                                                  -       -        -         -
2.7.6 Supervise personnel accomplishing                                                                         -       -        -         -
       maintenance
2.7.7 Analyze maintenance and                                                                                   -       -        -         -
       inspection reports and charts
2.7.8 Establish Performance standards                                                                           -       -        -         -
2.7.9 Evaluate work performance of                                                                              -       -        -         -
       subordinate personnel
2.7.10 Counsel personnel and resolve                                                                            -       -        -         -
       individual Problems
2.7.11 Perform self-assessments                                                                                 -       -        -         -
2.8 TRAINING TR:AFIs 36-2201, 36-
       2232, 36-2623
2.8.1 Career Field Education and                                                                                -       -        -         -
       Training Plan (CFETP)
2.8.2 Specialty Training Standard (STS)                                                                         -       -        -         -
2.8.3 Occupational Survey Report (OSR)                                                                          -       -        -         -
2.8.4 Utilization and Training Workshop                                                                         -       -        -         -
       (U&TW)
2.8.5 Evaluate personnel to determine                                                                           -       -        -         -
       need for training
2.8.6 Recommend personnel for training                                                                          -       -        -         -
2.8.7 Schedule training                                                                                         -       -        -         -
2.8.8 Plan and supervise OJT                                                                                    -       -        -         -
2.8.9 Prepare job qualification standards                                                                       -       -        -         -
       (AF Form 797)
2.8.10 Maintain training records                                                                                -       -        -         -
2.8.11 Evaluate effectiveness of training                                                                       -       -        -         -
       program




                                                                 30
                                   GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                              Indicate Training/Information
                                          Task                                                             Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

2.8.12 OJT trainer requirements
2.8.12.1 Prepare teaching outlines or task                                                                      -       -        -         -
       breakdowns
2.8.12.2 Provide trainees theory and train                                                                      -       -        -         -
       on actual equipment
2.8.12.3 Provide feedback on training                                                                           -       -        -         -
       provided
2.8.13 OJT task certifier requirements
2.8.13.1 Develop methods of evaluation                                                                          -       -        -         -
       to determine trainee
       knowledge/qualification, and
       training effectiveness
2.8.13.2 Use appropriate method of                                                                              -       -        -         -
       evaluation and effectively
       determine trainees ability
2.8.13.3 Provide supervisor and trainer                                                                         -       -        -         -
       feedback on results of training
       provided and trainees
       strengths/weaknesses
2.9 MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT
      TR:AFI 21-101, 21-109, and
      applicable command directives
2.9.1 Maintenance accountability                                                                                -       -        -         -
2.9.2 Basic functions and responsibilities                                                                      -       -        -         -
       of the maintenance complex
2.9.3 Operational Risk Management                                                                               -       -        -         -
2.9.4 Maintenance Resource Management                                                                           -       -        -         -
2.9.5 Logistics/Resource maintenance
       management
2.9.5.1 Logistics Management                                                                                    -       -        -         -
2.9.5.2 Resource Management                                                                                     -       -        -         -
2.9.5.3 Operations/Maintenance Group                                                                            -       -        -         -
       Commander Responsibilities
2.9.5.4 Technical Order Management                                                                              -       -        -         -
2.9.5.5 PEWG, TIPWG, STP, and PMR                                                                               -       -        -         -
2.9.5.6 Aircraft Maintenance                                                                                    -       -        -         -
       Management Info Systems
2.9.5.7 Aircraft Monitoring                                                                                     -       -        -         -
2.9.5.8 Unit Self Assessments                                                                                   -       -        -         -
2.9.5.9 Maintenance QPM Relationships                                                                           -       -        -         -
2.9.5.10 FOD Program Manager                                                                                    -       -        -         -
2.9.5.11 Mobility                                                                                               -       -        -         -
2.9.5.12 Expediter, Production                                                                                  -       -        -         -
       Supervisor, and Flight Chief
       Duties and Responsibilities
2.9.5.13 Maintenance Incident                                                                                   -       -        -         -
       Investigation and Prevention
2.9.6 Processing and controlling material                                                                       -      A         -         -
2.10 MAINTENANCE, INSPECTION
     SYSTEMS AND FORMS TR:AFI 21-
     109; TO 00-35D-54; TO 00-20 series
     and applicable command directives

                                                                 31
                                   GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                              Indicate Training/Information
                                          Task                                                             Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

2.10.1 Inspection systems                                                                                       -      A         -         -
2.10.2 Deficiency reporting system                                                                              -      A         -         -
2.10.3 Complete deficiency reports                                                                              -      -         -         -
2.10.4 Job Data Documentation (JDD)                                                                             -      -         -         -
2.10.5 Historical Records                                                                                       -      -         -         -
2.10.6 Status Reports                                                                                           -      -         -         -
2.10.7 Configuration Management                                                                                 -      -         -         -
2.10.8 Use aircraft maintenance forms
        TR:TO 00-20 series
2.10.8.1 781A                                                                                                2b        B         -         -
2.10.8.2 781H                                                                                                2b        A         -         -
2.10.8.3 781K                                                                                                2b        A         -         -
2.10.8.4 Other 781 forms                                                                                      -        -         -         -
2.10.9 Use Form 244                                                                                          2b        -         -         -
2.10.10 Use Maintenance Data Collection
        Systems/Supply Interface TR: 00-
        20 series TOs, Applicable Aircraft
        –06 TOs
2.10.10.1 Maintenance transactions                                                                           2b         -        -         -
2.10.10.2 Supply transactions                                                                                 -         -        -         -
2.10.10.3 Management/Supervision                                                                              -         -        -         -
        Transactions
2.10.11 Other Automated Maintenance                                                                             -       -        -         -
        Systems (RAMPOD and GO81)
2.11 GENERAL AIRCRAFT TASKS
        TR: Applicable TOs and
        directives, AFOSH Standard 91-
        100, 91-501, TOs 33 series, 35
        series, 35D12series, and 35E9
        series Applicable TOs
2.11.1 Aircraft general
2.11.1.1 Clean aircraft                                                                                         -       -        -         -
2.11.1.2 Perform ground handling
2.11.1.2.1 Launch aircraft                                                                                      -       -        -         -
2.11.1.2.2 Assist aircraft launch                                                                               -       -        -         -
2.11.1.2.3 Recover aircraft                                                                                     -       -        -         -
2.11.1.2.4 Assist aircraft recovery                                                                             -       -        -         -
2.11.1.3 Tow aircraft
2.11.1.3.1 Wing/tail walker                                                                                     -       -        -         -
2.11.1.3.2 Aircraft brake operator                                                                              -       -        -         -
2.11.1.3.3 Tow team supervisor                                                                                  -       -        -         -
2.11.1.4 Moor aircraft                                                                                          -       -        -         -
2.11.1.5 Jack and level aircraft
2.11.1.5.1 Jacking team member                                                                                  -       -        -         -
2.11.1.5.2 Jacking supervisor                                                                                   -       -        -         -
2.11.1.5.3 Assist in weight and balance                                                                         -       -        -         -
        functions
2.11.2 Airframe components
2.11.2.1 Remove/Open components
2.11.2.1.1 Panels and doors                                                                                  2b         -        -         -
2.11.2.1.2 Glareshield                                                                                        -         -        -         -
2.11.2.1.3 Nose radome                                                                                        -         -        -         -

                                                                 32
                                   GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                               Indicate Training/Information
                                          Task                                                             Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

2.11.2.1.4 Travel Pods                                                                                          -       -        -         -
2.11.2.1.5 Lower Equipment Bay Racks                                                                            -       -        -         -
2.11.2.2 Install/Close components
2.11.2.2.1 Panels and doors                                                                                  2b         -        -         -
2.11.2.2.2 Glareshield                                                                                        -         -        -         -
2.11.2.2.3 Nose radome                                                                                        -         -        -         -
2.11.2.2.4 Travel Pods                                                                                        -         -        -         -
2.11.2.2.5 Raise Equipment Bay Racks                                                                          -         -        -         -
2.11.3 Utility systems
2.11.3.1 Remove LOX converter                                                                                   -       -        -         -
2.11.3.2 Install LOX converter                                                                                  -       -        -         -
2.11.3.3 Remove OBOGS generator                                                                                 -       -        -         -
2.11.3.4 Install OBOGS generator                                                                                -       -        -         -
2.11.3.5 Halon bottle
2.11.3.5.1 Inspect                                                                                              -       -        -         -
2.11.3.5.2 Remove                                                                                               -       -        -         -
2.11.3.5.3 Install                                                                                              -       -        -         -
2.11.4 Hydraulic systems
2.11.4.1Service                                                                                                 -       -        -         -
2.11.4.2 Inspect                                                                                                -       -        -         -
2.11.5 Pneumatic system
2.11.5.1 Service                                                                                                -       -        -         -
2.11.5.2 Inspect                                                                                                -       -        -         -
2.11.6 Take engine oil samples (JOAP)                                                                           -       -        -         -
2.11.7 Refuel aircraft (normal)
2.11.7.1 Refuel team member                                                                                     -       -        -         -
2.11.7.2 Refuel team supervisor                                                                                 -       -        -         -
2.11.8 Defuel aircraft
2.11.8.1 Defuel team member                                                                                     -       -        -         -
2.11.8.2 Defuel team supervisor                                                                                 -       -        -         -
2.11.9 External fuel tanks
2.11.9.1 Remove                                                                                                 -       -        -         -
2.11.9.2 Install                                                                                                -       -        -         -
2.11.10 Electrical Systems
2.11.10.1 Perform operational check
2.11.10.1.1 Lighting system                                                                                     -       -        -         -
2.11.10.1.2 Indicator warning lights                                                                            -       -        -         -
2.11.10.2 Remove
2.11.10.2.1 Light lenses                                                                                        -       -        -         -
2.11.10.2.2 Light bulbs                                                                                         -       -        -         -
2.11.10.2.3 Aircraft battery                                                                                    -       -        -         -
2.11.10.3 Install
2.11.10.3.1 Light lenses                                                                                        -       -        -         -
2.11.10.3.2 Light bulbs                                                                                         -       -        -         -
2.11.10.3.3 Aircraft battery                                                                                    -       -        -         -
2.11.11 Egress system
2.11.11.1 Operate Canopy                                                                                        -       -        -         -
2.11.11.2 Seat adjustment                                                                                       -       -        -         -
2.11.11.3 Install safety pins                                                                                   -       -        -         -
2.11.11.4 Remove safety pins                                                                                    -       -        -         -
2.11.12 Aircraft support equipment

                                                                 33
                                   GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                               Indicate Training/Information
                                          Task                                                             Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E       A        B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

2.11.12.1 Maintenance stand(s)
2.11.12.1.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                         -        -        -         -
2.11.12.1.2 Operate                                                                                            -        -        -         -
2.11.12.2 Aircraft jacks
2.11.12.2.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                         -        -        -         -
2.11.12.2.2 Operate                                                                                            -        -        -         -
2.11.12.3 Portable hydraulic test stand
2.11.12.3.1 Perform pre-use inspection                   *                                                     -        -        -         -
2.11.12.3.2 Operate                                      *                                                     -        -        -         -
2.11.12.3.3 Bleed                                        *                                                     -        -        -         -
2.11.12.4 Air conditioning units
2.11.12.4.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                         -        -        -         -
2.11.12.4.2 Operate                                                                                            -        -        -         -
2.11.12.5 Turbine generators
2.11.12.5.1 Perform pre-use inspection           *                                                            2b        -        -         -
2.11.12.5.2 Operate                              *                                                            2b        -        -         -
2.11.12.6 Diesel generators
2.11.12.6.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                         -        -        -         -
2.11.12.6.2 Operate                                                                                            -        -        -         -
2.11.12.7 Nitrogen servicing equipment
2.11.12.7.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                         -        -        -         -
2.11.12.7.2 Operate                                                                                            -        -        -         -
2.11.12.8 Oil servicing cart
2.11.12.8.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                         -        -        -         -
2.11.12.8.2 Operate                                                                                            -        -        -         -
2.11.12.9 Hydraulic servicing cart
2.11.12.9.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                         -        -        -         -
2.11.12.9.2 Operate                                                                                            -        -        -         -
2.11.12.10 Centerline stores loader
2.11.12.10.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                        -        -        -         -
2.11.12.10.2 Operate                                                                                           -        -        -         -
2.11.12.11 Scissor jack
2.11.12.11.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                        -        -        -         -
2.11.12.11.2 Operate                                                                                           -        -        -         -
2.11.12.12 Air compressors
2.11.12.12.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                        -        -        -         -
2.11.12.12.2 Operate                                                                                           -        -        -         -
2.11.12.13 Heaters and blowers
2.11.12.13.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                        -        -        -         -
2.11.12.13.2 Operate                                                                                           -        -        -         -
2.11.12.14 Portable light equipment
2.11.12.14.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                        -        -        -         -
2.11.12.14.2 Operate                                                                                           -        -        -         -
2.11.12.15 Collapsible crane
2.11.12.15.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                        -        -        -         -
2.11.12.15.2 Operate                                                                                           -        -        -         -
2.11.12.16 Battery charger
2.11.12.16.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                        -        -        -         -
2.11.12.16.2 Operate                                                                                           -        -        -         -
2.11.12.17 Fiber optic light source and
        power meter

                                                                 34
                                   GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                              Indicate Training/Information
                                          Task                                                             Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

2.11.12.17.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                         -       -        -         -
2.11.12.17.2 Operate                                                                                            -       -        -         -
2.11.12.18 TTU-205 test set
2.11.12.18.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                         -       -        -         -
2.11.12.18.2 Operate                                                                                            -       -        -         -
2.11.12.19 Time Domain Reflectometer
       (TDR)
2.11.12.19.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                         -       -        -         -
2.11.12.19.2 Operate                                                                                            -       -        -         -
2.11.12.20 Optical Time Domain
       Reflectometer (OTDR)
2.11.12.20.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                         -       -        -         -
2.11.12.20.2 Operate                                                                                            -       -        -         -
2.11.12.21 Thru Line Watt Meter
2.11.12.21.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                         -       -        -         -
2.11.12.21.2 Operate                                                                                            -       -        -         -
2.11.12.22 1553 Bus Analyzer/Adapter
       Kit
2.11.12.22.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                         -       -        -         -
2.11.12.22.2 Operate                                                                                            -       -        -         -
2.11.12.23 Proximity Box / Weight-On -
       Wheels (WOW)
2.11.12.23.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                         -       -        -         -
2.11.12.23.2 Operate                                                                                            -       -        -         -
2.11.12.24 Radar Simulator Test Set
2.11.12.24.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                         -       -        -         -
2.11.12.24.2 Operate                                                                                            -       -        -         -
2.12 ANCILLARY COMMON TASKS
       TR: Applicable TOs and
       directives, TO 00-20-4
2.12.1 Computers and Computer Usage
2.12.1.1 Application Use                                                                                        -       -        -         -
2.12.1.2 Hardware                                                                                               -       -        -         -
2.12.1.3 Operating Systems                                                                                      -       -        -         -
2.12.1.4 Local Area Networks (LAN)                                                                              -       -        -         -
2.12.2 Support section
2.12.2.1 Maintain TMDE (PMEL) reports                                                                           -       -        -         -
2.12.2.2 Maintain TO files                                                                                      -       -        -         -
2.12.2.3 Maintain test equipment                                                                                -       -        -         -
2.12.2.4 Issue tools                                                                                            -       -        -         -
2.12.2.5 Inspect tools                                                                                          -       -        -         -
2.12.2.6 Maintain CA/CRLs                                                                                       -       -        -         -
2.12.2.7 Maintain bench stock                                                                                   -       -        -         -
2.12.3 Debriefing
2.12.3.1 Debrief pilots                                                                                         -       -        -         -
2.12.3.2 Maintain debriefing forms                                                                              -       -        -         -
2.12.3.3 Use automated data systems                                                                             -       -        -         -
2.12.4 Dispatcher/expediter
2.12.4.1 Maintain dispatch log/board                                                                            -       -        -         -
2.12.4.2 Maintain parts status                                                                                  -       -        -         -
2.12.4.3 Maintain aircraft status board                                                                         -       -        -         -

                                                                 35
                                   GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                              Indicate Training/Information
                                          Task                                                             Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

2.12.4.4 Use radio/radio discipline                                                                             -       -        -         -
2.12.4.5 Use automated data systems                                                                             -       -        -         -
2.12.5 Supply functions
2.12.5.1 DIFM monitor                                                                                           -       -        -         -
2.12.5.2 Order parts                                                                                            -       -        -         -
2.12.6 Aircraft Structural Integrity Program
        (ASIP) TR: AFI 63-1001
2.12.6.1 Functions                                                                                              -       -        -         -
2.12.6.2 ASIP Monitor                                                                                           -       -        -         -
2.12.6.3 Complete forms                                                                                         -       -        -         -
2.12.6.4 Maintain reports                                                                                       -       -        -         -
2.12.7 Serene BYTE/PACER WARE
        Program TR: AFI 10-703
2.12.7.1 Procedures                                                                                             -       -        -         -
2.12.7.2 Reports                                                                                                -       -        -         -
2.13 FUNDAMENTALS OF AVIONICS
     SYSTEMS MAINTENANCE
     TR:AFOSH 127-9, 127-23, 127-66
     Applicable Aircraft TO s and
     applicable directives TR: AFOSH 127-
     9, 127-23, 127-66 Applicable Aircraft
2.13.1 Aircraft familiarization
2.13.1.1 Introduction to AFSC Assigned                                                                        A         -        -         -
        Aircraft
2.13.1.2 Major structural areas                                                                               A        A         -         -
2.13.1.3 Major systems                                                                                        A        A         -         -
2.13.1.4 Danger areas                                                                                         A        A         -         -
2.13.2 Use common tool(s)                                                                                    2b        -         -         -
2.13.3 Corrosion control                                                                                      A        -         -         -
2.13.4 Protect
2.13.4.1 Exposed connectors                      *                                                            A        A         -         -
2.13.4.2 Open pressure lines                     *                                                            A        A         -         -
2.13.4.3 Open waveguides                         *                                                            A        A         -         -
2.13.5 Electrostatic Sensitive Device                                                                          -       -         -         -
        (ESD) Procedures
2.13.6 Perform aircraft safe for                 *                                                           2b         -        -         -
        maintenance check
2.13.7 Perform safety wiring                     *                                                           2b        -         -         -
2.13.8 Use torque indicating devices             *                                                           2b        A         -         -
2.13.9 Follow CTK procedures                     *                                                           2b        -         -         -
2.13.10 Chafing
2.13.10.1 Causes                                                                                              A        A         -         -
2.13.10.2 Identification                         *                                                            A        A         -         -
2.13.10.3 Prevention                                                                                          A        A         -         -
2.13.11 Advanced Troubleshooting
        Techniques
2.13.11.1 Technical problem solving
2.13.11.1.1 Methodology                                                                                         -       -        -         -
2.13.11.1.2 Analysis                                                                                            -       -        -         -
2.13.12 Principles of Avionics



                                                                 36
                                   GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                           2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                               Indicate    Training/Information
                                           Task                                                             Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B            A     B        C        D        E        A       B              C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                              3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                        Skill
                                                                                                               Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)        (2)
                                                                  Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course     CDC

2.13.12.1 Voice/Data communication                                                                              B        -        -            -
2.13.12.2 Display Systems                                                                                       B        -        -            -
2.13.12.3 Navigation Systems                                                                                    B        -        -            -
2.13.12.4 Radar Systems                                                                                         B        -        -            -
2.13.12.5 Countermeasure Systems                                                                                B        -        -            -
2.13.12.6 Flight Controls/Flight                                                                                B        -        -            -
         Environment
2.13.12.7 Integrated Computer Systems                                                                           B        -        -            -
2.13.12.8 Infrared & Laser                                                                                      B        -        -            -
2.14 AIRCRAFT WIRE, CABLE, AND
         TRANSMISSION LINE
         MAINTENANCE TR:
         Applicable TOs
2.14.1 Use wire repair kit(s)                                                                                 2b         -        -            -
2.14.2 Use heat gun                                                                                            -         -        -            -
2.14.3 Aircraft wiring
2.14.3.1 Troubleshoot                                                                                         2b        -         -            -
2.14.3.2 Repair                                                                                                -        A         -            -
2.14.3.3 Replace                                                                                               -        -         -            -
2.14.3.4 Inspect                                 *                                                             -        -         -            -
2.14.3.5 Use Test Equipment                                                                                    -        -         -            -
2.14.3.6 Replace BUS                                                                                           -        -         -            -
         Coupler/Transformers
2.14.4 Aircraft connectors
2.14.4.1 Multi Pin connectors
2.14.4.1.1 Repair                                        *                                                    2b        B         -            -
2.14.4.1.2 Replace                                                                                              -       -         -            -
2.14.4.1.3 Inspect                                       *                                                     B        B         -            -
2.14.4.2 Wafers
2.14.4.2.1 Repair                                                                                                -      B         -            -
2.14.4.2.2 Replace                                                                                               -      -         -            -
2.14.4.2.3 Inspect                                       *                                                      B       B         -            -
2.14.5 RF/Video cables/connectors
2.14.5.1 Troubleshoot                                    *                                                    2b        B         -            -
2.14.5.2 Repair                                         */R                                                    B        B         -            -
2.14.5.3 Replace                                                                                                -       -         -            -
2.14.5.4 Inspect                                         *                                                     B        B         -            -
2.14.5.5 RFTLTS/JSECSTS                                                                                        A        -         -            -
2.14.6 Waveguides
2.14.6.1 Remove                                                                                                  -      -         -            -
2.14.6.2 Install                                                                                                 -      -         -            -
2.14.6.3 Inspect                                         *                                                       -      B         -            -
2.14.7 Fiber optic cable/connectors
2.14.7.1 Functions                                                                                            A         -         -            -
2.14.7.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                          -        -         -            -
2.14.7.3 Remove                                                                                                -        -         -            -
2.14.7.4 Install                                                                                               -        -         -            -
2.14.7.5 Inspect                                                                                               -        B         -            -
2.14.7.6 Clean                                                                                                 -        -         -            -
2.14.7.7 Test Fiber Path                                                                                      1a        -         -            -
2.14.8 Use Fiber Optic repair kit                                                                              -        -         -            -

                                                                 37
                                   GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                              Indicate Training/Information
                                          Task                                                             Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

2.15 SOFTWARE LOADING DEVICES
       TR: Applicable TOs
2.15.1 Operation                                                                                              A         -        -         -
2.15.2 Configuration/program software                                                                          -        -        -         -
       cartridges
2.15.3 Perform self-test                                                                                        -       -        -         -
2.15.4 Load and verify OFP/OP                                                                                   -       -        -         -
2.16 CRYPTO LOADING DEVICES
       TR: Applicable TOs
2.16.1 KYK-13                                                                                                  -        -        -         -
2.16.2 AN/CYZ-10                                                                                               -        -        -         -
2.16.3 Simple Key Loader (SKL)                   *                                                            A         -        -         -
2.17 GENERAL AVIONICS LRUs TR:
       Applicable TOs
2.17.1 Attitude Director Indicator (ADI)
2.17.1.1 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                   -       -        -         -
2.17.1.2 Remove                                                                                                 -       -        -         -
1217.1.3 Install                                                                                                -       -        -         -
2.17.2 Horizontal Situation Indicator
       (HSI)
2.17.2.1 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                   -       -        -         -
2.17.2.2 Remove                                                                                                 -       -        -         -
2.17.2.3 Install                                                                                                -       -        -         -
2.17.3 Electronic Horizontal Situation
       Indicator (EHSI)
2.17.3.1 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                 -       -        -         -
2.17.3.2 Perform operation checkout/BIT                                                                         -       -        -         -
2.17.3.3 Isolate malfunction                                                                                    -       -        -         -
2.17.3.4 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                   -       -        -         -
2.17.3.5 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                  -       -        -         -
2.17.4 Flight Control Stick-grip
       Assembly
2.17.4.1 Perform operational checkout                                                                           -       -        -         -
2.17.4.2 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                   -       -        -         -
2.17.4.3 Remove                                                                                                 -       -        -         -
2.17.4.4 Install                                                                                                -       -        -         -
2.17.5 Slip-turn Transmitter Gyro/Rate
       sensor assembly
2.17.5.1 Perform operational checkout                                                                           -       -        -         -
2.17.5.2 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                   -       -        -         -
2.17.5.3 Remove                                                                                                 -       -        -         -
2.17.5.4 Install                                                                                                -       -        -         -
2.17.6 Throttle grip assembly
2.17.6.1 Perform operational checkout                                                                           -       -        -         -
2.17.6.2 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                   -       -        -         -
2.17.6.3 Remove                                                                                                 -       -        -         -
2.17.6.4 Install                                                                                                -       -        -         -




                                                                 38
                                          F-16 A/B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                    2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                    Task                                                         Provided (See Note)

                                                        A      B         A       B        C        D        E       A        B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                          7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                   3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                             Skill
                                                                                                                    Level
                                                     5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                       Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC
NOTE1:   The apprentice course will use representative aircraft/trainers to accomplish the system specific training requirements as
         identified by the STS. The common section of the CFETP is used to code core competencies of the career field that
         will be taught in the apprentice course. The MDS specific attachments are to be used in conjunction with the
         common section to identify requirements and annotate qualifications.

NOTE2:   All task/knowledge taught in the initial skills courses will be taught in the wartime initial skills courses.

NOTE3:   Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.

NOTE4:    Core Tasks are identified by an asterisk (*) in the appropriate column.
NOTE 5: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Manager to the AETC Training
         Manager, DSN: 736-7908
3.1 STORES MANAGEMENT SET
       (SMS), TR: Applicable F-16 -2
       and - 34 series TOs
3.1.1 System Description                                                                                             -        -        -         -
3.1.2 System Operation                                                                                               -        -        -         -
3.1.3 System Theory                                                                                                  -        -        -         -
3.1.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                         -        -        -         -
3.1.5 Perform confidence checkout and                                                                                -        -        -         -
       BIT
3.1.6 Load OFP                                                                                                       -        -        -         -
3.2 FIRE CONTROL RADAR (FCR),
       TR: Applicable F-16 -2 and -34
       series TOs
3.2.1 System Description                                                                                             -        -        -         -
3.2.2 System Operation                                                                                               -        -        -         -
3.2.3 System Theory                                                                                                  -        -        -         -
3.2.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                         -        -        -         -
3.2.5 Perform operational checkout and                                                                               -        -        -         -
       BIT
3.2.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                           -        -        -         -
3.2.7 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                           -        -        -         -
3.2.8 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                          -        -        -         -
3.2.9 Use waveguide pressurization tester                                                                            -        -        -         -
3.2.10 Load OFP                                                                                                      -        -        -         -
3.3 EXPANDED FIRE CONTROL
       (XFCC), TR: Applicable F-16 -2
       and -34 series TOs
3.3.1 System Description                                                                                             -        -        -         -
3.3.2 System Operation                                                                                               -        -        -         -
3.3.3 System Theory                                                                                                  -        -        -         -
3.3.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                         -        -        -         -
3.3.5 Perform operational checkout                                                                                   -        -        -         -
3.3.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                           -        -        -         -
3.3.7 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                           -        -        -         -
3.3.8 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                          -        -        -         -
3.3.9 Load OFP                                                                                                       -        -        -         -
3.4 HEAD UP DISPLAY (HUD)
       SYSTEM, TR: Applicable F-16
       –2 and –34 series TOs
3.4.1 System Description                                                                                             -        -        -         -
3.4.2 System Operation                                                                                               -        -        -         -


                                                                       39
                                     F-16 A/B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                           Indicate Training/Information
                                              Task                                                         Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E       A        B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

3.4.3 System Theory                                                                                            -        -        -         -
3.4.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                   -        -        -         -
3.4.5 Perform operational checkout and                                                                         -        -        -         -
       BIT
3.4.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -        -        -         -
3.4.7 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                     -        -        -         -
3.4.8 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                    -        -        -         -
3.5 RADAR, ELECTRO-OPTICAL
       (REO) DISPLAY SYSTEM,
       TR: Applicable F-16 –2 and –
       34 series TOs
3.5.1 System Description                                                                                       -        -        -         -
3.5.2 System Operation                                                                                         -        -        -         -
3.5.3 System Theory                                                                                            -        -        -         -
3.5.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                   -        -        -         -
3.5.5 Perform operational checkout and                                                                         -        -        -         -
       BIT
3.5.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -        -        -         -
3.5.7 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                     -        -        -         -
3.5.8 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                    -        -        -         -
3.6 AIRBORNE VIDEO TAPE
    RECORDER (AVTR) SYSTEM) TR:
    Applicable F-16 -2 and -34 series TOs
3.6.1 System Description                                                                                       -        -        -         -
3.6.2 System Operation                                                                                         -        -        -         -
3.6.3 System Theory                                                                                            -        -        -         -
3.6.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                   -        -        -         -
3.6.5 Perform operational checkout and                                                                         -        -        -         -
       BIT
3.6.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -        -        -         -
3.6.7 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                     -        -        -         -
3.6.8 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                    -        -        -         -
3.6.9 Perform CTVS HUD Video                                                                                   -        -        -         -
       Alignment




                                                                 40
                                          F-16 C/D TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                    2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                            Indicate Training/Information
                                                    Task                                                          Provided (See Note)

                                                         A      B         A       B        C        D        E       A        B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                           7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                    3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                              Skill
                                                                                                                     Level
                                                      5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                        Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC
NOTE1:   The apprentice course will use representative aircraft/trainers to accomplish the system specific training requirements as
         identified by the STS. The common section of the CFETP is used to code core competencies of the career field that
         will be taught in the apprentice course. The MDS specific attachments are to be used in conjunction with the
         common section to identify requirements and annotate qualifications.

NOTE2:    All task/knowledge taught in the initial skills courses will be taught in the wartime initial skills courses.

NOTE3:   Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revisions.

NOTE4:     Core Tasks are identified by an asterisk (*) in the appropriate column.

NOTE 5: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Manager to the AETC Training
         Manager, DSN: 736-7908
NOTE6: Line item 4.33.7 and 4.33.8 will be trained using the DMT, MLPRF or PSP LRUs, for 3 skill level resident training.
4.1 F-16 TECHNICAL PUBS TR: TOs
       00-5-1, 00-5-2, 00-5-18, Applicable
       F16 TOs
4.1.1 Use Electronic Tech Data                                                                                    2b/-         -        -         -
4.2 USE MAINTENANCE DATA
     COLLECTION SYSTEMS/SUPPLY
     INTERFACE TR: 00-20 series TOs,
     Applicable Aircraft –06 TOs
4.2.1 Electronic Forms                                                                                            2b/-         -        -         -
4.3 ULTRA-HIGH FREQUENCY
     /HAVE QUICK (UHF/HQ)
     COMMUNICATIONS TR:
     Applicable F-16 –2 series TOs
4.3.1 System Description                                                                                             A        -         -         -
4.3.2 System Operation                                                                                               A        -         -         -
4.3.3 System Theory                                                                                                   -       A         -         -
4.3.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                          -       -         -         -
4.3.5 Perform operational checkout                       *                                                           2b       -         -         -
4.3.6 Isolate malfunctions                                      *                                                    1a       -         -         -
4.3.7 Remove system LRU(s)
4.3.7.1 UHF RT                                           *                                                           2b        -        -         -
4.3.7.2 Antenna                                                                                                       -        -        -         -
4.3.7.3 Other LRU(s)                                                                                                  -        -        -         -
4.3.8 Install system LRU(s)
4.3.8.1 UHF RT                                           *                                                           2b        -        -         -
4.3.8.2 UHF/IFF Antenna                                                                                               -        -        -         -
4.3.8.3 Other LRU(s)                                                                                                  -        -        -         -
4.3.9 Load WOD/TOD/FMT                                                                                                -        -        -         -
4.4 SECURE VOICE TR: Applicable F-
       16 –2 series TOs
4.4.1 System Description                                                                                             A        -         -         -
4.4.2 System Operation                                                                                               A        -         -         -
4.4.3 System Theory                                                                                                  -        A         -         -
4.4.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                         -        -         -         -
4.4.5 Perform operational checkout                                                                                   -        -         -         -
4.4.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                           -        -         -         -
4.4.7 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                           -        -         -         -
4.4.8 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                          -        -         -         -
4.4.9 Code system                                                                                                    -        -         -         -


                                                                        41
                                    F-16 C/D TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                           Indicate Training/Information
                                              Task                                                         Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

4.5 VERY-HIGH-FREQUENCY (VHF)
       COMMUNICATIONS TR:
       Applicable F-16 –2 series TOs
4.5.1 System Description                                                                                        -      -         -         -
4.5.2 System Operation                                                                                          -      -         -         -
4.5.3 System Theory                                                                                             -      A         -         -
4.5.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                    -      -         -         -
4.5.5 Perform operational checkout                                                                              -      -         -         -
4.5.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                      -      -         -         -
4.5.7 Use test equipment                                                                                        -      -         -         -
4.5.8 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                      -      -         -         -
4.5.9 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                     -      -         -         -
4.6 AN/ARC-210 Multiband Radio
       System
4.6.1 System Description                                                                                      A         -        -         -
4.6.2 System Operation                                                                                         -        -        -         -
4.6.3 System Theory                                                                                            -        -        -         -
4.6.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                   -        -        -         -
4.6.5 Perform operational checkout                                                                             -        -        -         -
4.6.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -        -        -         -
4.6.7 Use test equipment                                                                                       -        -        -         -
4.6.8 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                     -        -        -         -
4.6.9 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                    -        -        -         -
4.6.10 Enter encryption codes                                                                                  -        -        -         -
4.7 INTERPHONE SYSTEM TR:
  Applicable F-16 –2 series TOs
4.7.1 System Description                                                                                      A        -         -         -
4.7.2 System Operation                                                                                        A        -         -         -
4.7.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       A         -         -
4.7.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                   -       -         -         -
4.7.5 Perform operational checkout               *                                                             -       -         -         -
4.7.6 Use interphone system                                                                                  2b        -         -         -
4.7.7 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -       -         -         -
4.7.8 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                     -       -         -         -
4.7.9 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                    -       -         -         -
4.8 IMPROVED DATA MODEM (IDM)
       TR: Applicable F-16 –2 series TOs
4.8.1 System Description                                                                                      A         -        -         -
4.8.2 System Operation                                                                                        A         -        -         -
4.8.3 System Theory                                                                                            -        -        -         -
4.8.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                 1b         -        -         -
4.8.5 Perform operational checkout                                                                             -        -        -         -
4.8.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -        -        -         -
4.8.7 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                     -        -        -         -
4.8.8 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                    -        -        -         -
4.8.9 Use test equipment                                                                                       -        -        -         -
4.8.10 Load OFP                                                                                                -        -        -         -
4.9 SITUATION AWARENESS DATA
       LINK (SADL) TR: Applicable F-
       16 – 2 series TOs
4.9.1 System Description                                                                                      A         -        -         -
4.9.2 System Operation                                                                                         -        -        -         -
                                                                 42
                                    F-16 C/D TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                              2. Core Task 3. Certification For OJT                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                           Note)
                                                 A       B       A         B        C       D        E      A          B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3Skill 5 Skill
                                                                                                             Level  Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)    (2)      (1)        (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC       Course     CDC

4.9.3 System Theory                                                                                           -        -        -          -
4.9.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                  -        -        -          -
4.9.5 Perform operational checkout
4.9.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                    -        -        -         -
4.9.7 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                    -        -        -         -
4.9.8 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                   -        -        -         -
4.9.9 Use test equipment                                                                                      -        -        -         -
4.9.10 Enter encryption codes                                                                                 -        -        -         -
4.10 MULTI-FUNCTION
     INFORMATION DISTRIBUTION
     SYSTEM (MIDS) (LINK16/TACAN)
     TR: Applicable F-16 –2 series TOs
4.10.1 System Description                                                                                    A         -        -         -
4.10.2 System Operation                                                                                      A         -        -         -
4.10.3 System Theory                                                                                         -         -        -         -
4.10.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                -         -        -         -
4.10.5 Perform operational checkout
4.10.5.1 Link16                                                                                               -        -        -         -
4.10.5.2 TACAN                                                                                                -        -        -         -
4.10.6 Isolate malfunction                                                                                    -        -        -         -
4.10.7 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                   -        -        -         -
4.10.8 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                  -        -        -         -
4.10.9 Use test equipment                                                                                     -        -        -         -
4.10.10 Load encryption codes                                                                                 -        -        -         -
4.11 FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEM
       (FLCS) (ANALOG) TR:
       Applicable F-16 -2 series TOs
4.11.1 System Description                                                                                    A        A         -         -
4.11.2 System Operation
4.11.2.1 Stability and command
                                                                                                             A        A         -         -
       augmentation
4.11.2.2 Trim                                                                                                -        A         -         -
4.11.2.3 Autopilot                                                                                           -        A         -         -
4.11.2.4 Self-test                                                                                           A        -         -         -
4.11.2.5 Air data scheduling                                                                                 A        -         -         -
4.11.2.6 Electrical power
                                                                                                             A         -        -         -
       (primary/alternate)
4.11.3 System Theory                                                                                          -       A         -         B
4.11.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                 -       -         -         -
4.11.5 Perform operational checkouts
4.11.5.1 FLCS self-test                          *                                                           2b        -        -         -
4.11.5.2 Other operational checkouts                                                                          -        -        -         -
4.11.6 Boresight AOA transmitter mount                                                                        -        -        -         -
4.11.7 Isolate malfunctions                              *                                                    -        -        -         -
4.11.8 Use test equipment                                                                                     -        -        -         -
4.11.9 Remove system LRU(s)
4.11.9.1 Flight control computer                 *                                                            -        -        -         -
4.11.9.2 Rate gyros                                                                                           -        -        -         -
4.11.9.3 Flight control panel                                                                                 -        -        -         -
4.11.9.4 Manual trim panel                                                                                    -        -        -         -
4.11.9.5 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -        -        -         -

                                                                 43
                                      F-16 C/D TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                           Indicate Training/Information
                                              Task                                                         Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

4.11.10 Install system LRU(s)
4.11.10.1 Flight control computer                *                                                             -        -        -         -
4.11.10.2 Rate gyros                                                                                           -        -        -         -
4.12 DIGITAL FLIGHT CONTROL
       SYSTEM (DFLCS) TR:
       Applicable F-16 -2 series TOs
4.12.1 System Description                                                                                     A         -        -         -
4.12.2 System Operation
4.12.2.1 Stability and command                                                                                A         -        -         -
       augmentation
4.12.2.2 Trim                                                                                                  -        -        -         -
4.12.2.3 Autopilot                                                                                             -        -        -         -
4.12.2.4 BIT                                                                                                  A         -        -         -
4.12.2.5 Air data scheduling                                                                                  A         -        -         -
4.12.2.6 Electrical power                                                                                     A         -        -         -
       (primary/alternate)
4.12.3 System Theory                                                                                          -        A         -         B
4.12.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                1b        -         -         -
4.12.5 Perform operational checkouts
4.12.5.1 Operational checkout and BIT            *                                                           2b         -        -         -
4.12.5.2 Other checkouts                                                                                      -         -        -         -
4.12.6 Boresight AOA transmitter mount                                                                        -         -        -         -
4.12.7 Isolate malfunctions                              *                                                    -         -        -         -
4.12.8 Remove system LRU(s)
4.12.8.1 DFLCC                                   *                                                              -       -        -         -
4.12.8.2 Other LRU(s)                                                                                           -       -        -         -
4.12.9 Install system LRU(s)
4.12.9.1 DFLCC                                   *                                                              -       -        -         -
4.12.9.2 Other LRU(s)                                                                                           -       -        -         -
4.13 LEADING EDGE FLAP SYSTEM
       TR: Applicable F-16 -2 series TOs
4.13.1 System Description                                                                                     A        -         -         -
4.13.2 System Operation                                                                                       A        -         -         -
4.13.3 System Theory                                                                                           -       A         -         -
4.13.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                  -       -         -         -
4.13.5 Perform operational checkout                                                                            -       -         -         -
4.13.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                    -       -         -         -
4.13.7 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                    -       -         -         -
4.13.8 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                   -       -         -         -
4.14 FLCS SEAT DATA RECORDER
     TR: Applicable F-16 -2 series TOs
4.14.1 System Description                                                                                       -      -         -         -
4.14.2 System Operation                                                                                         -      -         -         -
4.14.3 System Theory                                                                                            -      A         -         -
4.14.4 Perform operational checkout                                                                             -      -         -         -
4.14.5 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -      -         -         -
4.14.6 Remove LRU                                                                                               -      -         -         -
4.14.7 Install LRU                                                                                              -      -         -         -
4.15 FUEL QUANTITY INDICATING
       SYSTEM TR: Applicable F-16 -
       2 series TOs

                                                                 44
                                      F-16 C/D TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                           Indicate Training/Information
                                              Task                                                         Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

4.15.1 System Description                                                                                     A
4.15.2 System Operation                                                                                       A
4.15.3 System Theory                                                                                           -       A
4.15.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                1b        -         -         -
4.15.5 Perform operational checkout              *                                                             -       -         -         -
4.15.6 Calibrate system                                                                                      2b        -         -         -
4.15.7 Perform capacitance check                                                                             2b        -         -         -
4.15.8 Isolate malfunctions                              *                                                   1b        -         -         -
4.15.9 Use test equipment                                                                                    2b        -         -         -
4.15.10 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                   -       -         -         -
4.15.11 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                  -       -         -         -
4.16 HYDRAULIC PRESSURE
       INDICATION TR: Applicable F-1
       6 - 2 series TOs
4.16.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
4.16.2 System Operation                                                                                         -       -        -         -
4.16.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       -        -         -
4.16.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                   -       -        -         -
4.16.5 Perform operational check                                                                                -       -        -         -
4.16.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.16.7 Remove indicator                                                                                         -       -        -         -
4.16.8 Install indicator                                                                                        -       -        -         -
4.17 CRASH SURVIVABLE FLIGHT
       DATA RECORDER (CSFDR)
       SYSTEM TR: Applicable F-16
       -2 series TOs
4.17.1 System Description                                                                                       -      -         -         -
4.17.2 System Operation                                                                                         -      -         -         -
4.17.3 System Theory                                                                                            -      A         -         -
4.17.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                   -      -         -         -
4.17.5 Perform operational check                                                                                -      -         -         -
4.17.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -      -         -         -
4.17.7 Remove LRU(s)                                                                                            -      -         -         -
4.17.8 Install LRU(s)                                                                                           -      -         -         -
4.17.9 Load OFP                                                                                                 -      -         -         -
4.17.10 CFSDR Download
4.17.10.1 Perform download                                                                                      -       -        -         -
4.17.10.2 Analyze data                                                                                          -       -        -         -
4.18 FLIGHT ENVIRONMENT (Air
       Data) SYSTEM TR: Applicable
       F-16 -2 series TOs
4.18.1 System Description                                                                                     A        -         -         -
4.18.2 System Operation                                                                                       A        -         -         -
4.18.3 System Theory                                                                                           -       A         -         B
4.18.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                  -       -         -         -
4.18.5 Perform operational checkout and
       BIT
4.18.5.1 CADC operational checkout                                                                              -       -        -         -
       (Block 32 and below)
4.18.5.2 Other operational checkouts                                                                            -       -        -         -
4.18.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -       -        -         -


                                                                 45
                                    F-16 C/D TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                             2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                            Indicate Training/Information
                                             Task                                                          Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B       A         B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

4.18.7 Remove system LRU(s)
4.18.7.1 CADC                                    *                                                           2b         -        -         -
4.18.7.2 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -         -        -         -
4.18.8 Install system LRU(s)
4.18.8.1 CADC                                    *                                                           2b         -        -         -
4.18.8.2 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -         -        -         -
4.19 PITOT STATIC INSTRUMENTS
     TR: Applicable F-16 -2 series TOs
4.19.1 System Description                                                                                     A        -         -         -
4.19.2 System Operation                                                                                       A        -         -         -
4.19.3 System Theory                                                                                           -       A         -         B
4.19.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                  -       -         -         -
4.19.5 Perform operational checkouts             *                                                           2b        -         -         -
4.19.6 Adjust components                                                                                       -       -         -         -
4.19.7 Isolate malfunctions                              *                                                     -       -         -         -
4.19.8 Use test equipment                                                                                    2b        -         -         -
4.19.9 Remove system LRU(s)
4.19.9.1 Altimeter                                                                                              -       -        -         -
4.19.9.2 AMI                                                                                                    -       -        -         -
4.19.9.3 Other LRU(s)                                                                                           -       -        -         -
4.19.10 Install system LRU(s)
4.19.10.1 Altimeter                                                                                             -       -        -         -
4.19.10.2 AMI                                                                                                   -       -        -         -
4.19.10.3 Other LRU(s)                                                                                          -       -        -         -
4.20 STANDBY ATTITUDE
       INDICATOR (SAI) TR:
       Applicable F-16 -2 series TOs
4.20.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
4.20.2 System Operation                                                                                         -       -        -         -
4.20.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       -        -         -
4.20.4 Perform operational checkout                                                                             -       -        -         -
4.20.5 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.20.6 Remove system LRU                                                                                        -       -        -         -
4.20.7 Install system LRU                                                                                       -       -        -         -
4.21 DIRECT READING (STANDBY)
       COMPASS TR: Applicable F-16
       -2 series TOs
4.21.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
4.21.2 System Operation                                                                                         -       -        -         -
4.21.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       -        -         -
4.21.4 Perform operational checkout                                                                             -       -        -         -
4.21.5 Make compensation adjustments                                                                            -       -        -         -
4.21.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.21.7 Remove system LRU                                                                                        -       -        -         -
4.21.8 Install system LRU                                                                                       -       -        -         -


                                                                 46
                                    F-16 C/D TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                           Indicate Training/Information
                                              Task                                                         Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

4.22 INSTRUMENT LANDING
       SYSTEM (ILS) TR: Applicable
4.22.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
4.22.2 System Operation                                                                                         -       -        -         -
4.22.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       -        -         -
4.22.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                   -       -        -         -
4.22.5 Perform operational checkout                                                                             -       -        -         -
4.22.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.22.7 Use test equipment                                                                                       -       -        -         -
4.22.8 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.22.9 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                    -       -        -         -
4.23 AIR-TO-GROUND IFF (A/G IFF)
       TRANSPONDER SYSTEM TR:
       Applicable F-16 -2 series TOs
4.23.1 System Description                                                                                     A         -        -         -
4.23.2 System Operation                                                                                       A         -        -         -
4.23.3 System Theory                                                                                           -        -        -         B
4.23.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                  -        -        -         -
4.23.5 Perform operational checkout and          *                                                           2b         -        -         -
       BIT
4.23.6 Isolate malfunctions                              *                                                   2b         -        -         -
4.23.7 Use test equipment                        *                                                           2b         -        -         -
4.23.8 Remove system LRU(s)
4.23.8.1 IFF RT                                                                                                 -       -        -         -
4.23.8.2 Other LRU(s)                                                                                           -       -        -         -
4.23.9 Install system LRU(s)
4.23.9.1 IFF RT                                                                                                 -       -        -         -
4.23.9.2 Other LRU(s)                                                                                           -       -        -         -
4.23.10 Mode 4
4.23.10.1 System Description                                                                                  A         -        -         -
4.23.10.2 System Operation                                                                                    A         -        -         -
4.23.10.3 System Theory                                                                                        -        -        -         B
4.23.10.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                               -        -        -         -
4.23.10.5 Perform operational checkout           *                                                             -        -        -         -
4.23.10.6 Isolate malfunctions                           *                                                     -        -        -         -
4.23.10.7 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                 -        -        -         -
4.23.10.8 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                -        -        -         -
4.23.10.9 Code system                                                                                          -        -        -         -
4.23.10.10 Perform Mode 4 check                                                                                -        -        -         -
4.24 ADVANCED IDENTIFICATION
       FRIEND OR FOE (AIFF) TR:
       Applicable F-16 –2 series TOs
4.24.1 System Description                                                                                     A         -        -         -
4.24.2 System Operation                                                                                       A         -        -         -
4.24.3 System Theory                                                                                           -        -        -         -
4.24.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                  -        -        -         -


                                                                 47
                                    F-16 C/D TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                             2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                            Indicate Training/Information
                                             Task                                                          Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

4.24.5 Perform operational checkout and                                                                         -       -        -         -
4.24.6 Isolate malfunction                                                                                      -       -        -         -
4.24.7 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.24.8 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                    -       -        -         -
4.24.9 Use test equipment                                                                                       -       -        -         -
4.24.10 Load OFP                                                                                                -       -        -         -
4.24.11 Load Encryption Codes                                                                                   -       -        -         -
4.24.12 Perform Mode 4 check                                                                                    -       -        -         -
4.25 TACTICAL AIR NAVIGATION
       (TACAN) SYSTEM TR:
4.25.1 System Description                                                                                     A         -        -         -
4.25.2 System Operation                                                                                       A         -        -         -
4.25.3 System Theory                                                                                           -        -        -         B
4.25.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                  -        -        -         -
4.25.5 Perform operational checkout and                                                                      2b         -        -         -
       BIT
4.25.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.25.7 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.25.8 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                    -       -        -         -
4.26 FUEL FLOW INDICATION TR:
       Applicable F-16 –2 series TOs
4.26.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
4.26.2 System Operation                                                                                         -       -        -         -
4.26.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       -        -         -
4.26.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                   -       -        -         -
4.26.5 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.26.6 Remove indicator                                                                                         -       -        -         -
4.26.7 Install indicator                                                                                        -       -        -         -
4.27 NOZZLE POSITION
       INDICATION TR: Applicable F-1
       6 – 2 series TOs
4.27.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
4.27.2 System Operation                                                                                         -       -        -         -
4.27.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       -        -         -
4.27.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                   -       -        -         -
4.27.5 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.27.6 Remove indicator                                                                                         -       -        -         -
4.27.7 Install indicator                                                                                        -       -        -         -
4.28 TACHOMETER INDICATION TR:
       Applicable F-16 –2 series TOs
4.28.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
4.28.2 System Operation                                                                                         -       -        -         -
4.28.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       -        -         -
4.28.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                   -       -        -         -
4.28.5 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.28.6 Remove indicator                                                                                         -       -        -         -
4.28.7 Install indicator                                                                                        -       -        -         -
4.29 TEMPERATURE INDICATION
  TR: Applicable F-16 –2 series TOs
4.29.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
                                                                 48
                                    F-16 C/D TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                           Indicate Training/Information
                                              Task                                                         Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

4.29.2 System Operation                                                                                         -      -         -         -
4.29.3 System Theory                                                                                            -      A         -         -
4.29.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                   -      -         -         -
4.29.5 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -      -         -         -
4.29.6 Remove indicator                                                                                         -      -         -         -
4.29.7 Install indicator                                                                                        -      -         -         -
4.29.8 Use engine warning test set                                                                              -      -         -         -
4.30 OIL PRESSURE INDICATION TR:
       Applicable F-16 –2 series TOs
4.30.1 System Description                                                                                       -      -         -         -
4.30.2 System Operation                                                                                         -      -         -         -
4.30.3 System Theory                                                                                            -      A         -         -
4.30.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                   -      -         -         -
4.30.5 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -      -         -         -
4.30.6 Remove indicator                                                                                         -      -         -         -
4.30.7 Install indicator                                                                                        -      -         -         -
4.31 ADVANCED STORES
       MANAGEMENT SET (ASMS)
       TR: Applicable F-16 –2 and –34
       series TOs
4.31.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
4.31.2 System Operation                                                                                         -       -        -         -
4.31.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       -        -         -
4.31.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                   -       -        -         -
4.31.5 Perform confidence checkout                                                                              -       -        -         -
4.31.6 Load OFP                                                                                                 -       -        -         -
4.32 FIRE CONTROL INTEGRATION
       TR: Applicable F-16 –2 and –34
       series TOs
4.32.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
4.32.2 System Operation                                                                                         -       -        -         -
4.32.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       -        -         B
4.32.4 Perform integrated system                                                                                -       -        -         -
       checkout
4.32.5 Isolate malfunction to subsystem                                                                         -       -        -         -
4.33 BORESIGHT FIRE CONTROL
       SYSTEM (FCS) TR: Applicable F-
       16 –2 series TOs
4.33.1 Purpose of boresighting                                                                                  -      A         -         -
4.33.2 Use test equipment                                                                                       -      -         -         -
4.33.3 Perform boresight procedures
4.33.3.1 Pilots display unit mount                                                                              -       -        -         -
4.33.3.2 Rate sensor unit mount                                                                                 -       -        -         -
4.33.3.3 Inertial navigation unit mount                                                                         -       -        -         -
4.33.3.4 Fire control radar antenna mount                                                                       -       -        -         -
4.33.3.5 Left and right hardpoints                                                                              -       -        -         -
4.34 FIRE CONTROL RADAR (FCR)
       TR: Applicable F-16 –2 and –
       34 series TOs
4.34.1 System Description                                                                                     A         -        -         -

                                                                 49
                                    F-16 C/D TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                           Indicate Training/Information
                                              Task                                                         Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

4.34.2 System Operation                                                                                       A        -         -         -
4.34.3 System Theory                                                                                           -       A         -         B
4.34.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                1b        -         -         -
4.34.5 Perform operational checkout              *                                                           2b        -         -         -
4.34.6 Isolate malfunctions                              *                                                   2b        -         -         -
4.34.7 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                  2b        -         -         -
4.34.8 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                 2b        -         -         -
4.34.9 Load OFP                                                                                                -       -         -         -
4.34.10 Use waveguide pressurization                                                                         1b        -         -         -
4.35 COMBINED ALTITUDE RADAR
       ALTIMETER (CARA) TR:
       Applicable F-16 –2 and –34
       series TOs
4.35.1 System Description                                                                                       -      -         -         -
4.35.2 System Operation                                                                                         -      -         -         -
4.35.3 System Theory                                                                                            -      A         -         -
4.35.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                   -      -         -         -
4.35.5 Perform operational checkout and                                                                         -      -         -         -
       BIT
4.35.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.35.7 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.35.8 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                    -       -        -         -
4.36 RING LASER GYRO (RLG)
       NAVIGATION SYSTEM TR:
       Applicable F-16/F-1 17 –2 and –
       34 series TOs
4.36.1 System Description                                                                                     A         -        -         -
4.36.2 System Operation                                                                                       A         -        -         -
4.36.3 System Theory                                                                                           -        -        -         -
4.36.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                  -        -        -         -
4.36.5 Perform operational checkout and          *                                                           2b         -        -         -
       BIT
4.36.6 Isolate malfunction                               *                                                   1b         -        -         -
4.36.7 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                   -         -        -         -
4.36.8 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                  -         -        -         -
4.37 EMBEDDED GLOBAL
     POSITIONING SYSTEM;
     INERTIAL NAVIGATION SYSTEM
     (EGI) TR: Applicable F-16–2 TOs
4.37.1 System Description                                                                                     A         -        -         -
4.37.2 System Operation                                                                                       A         -        -         -
4.37.3 System Theory                                                                                           -        -        -         -
4.37.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                  -        -        -         -
4.37.5 Enter encryption codes                                                                                  -        -        -         -
4.37.6 Perform operational check                 *                                                             -        -        -         -
4.37.7 Isolate malfunctions                              *                                                     -        -        -         -
4.37.8 Remove LRU(s)                                                                                           -        -        -         -
4.37.9 Install LRU(s)                                                                                          -        -        -         -
4.37.10 Load OFP                                                                                               -        -        -         -

                                                                 50
                                    F-16 C/D TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                           Indicate Training/Information
                                              Task                                                         Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

4.38 GLOBAL POSITIONING
       SYSTEM (GPS) TR: Applicable
       F-16 -2 and -34 series TOs
4.38.1 System Description                                                                                     A         -        -         -
4.38.2 System Operation                                                                                       A         -        -         -
4.38.3 System Theory                                                                                           -        -        -         -
4.38.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                  -        -        -         -
4.38.5 Enter encryption codes                                                                                  -        -        -         -
4.38.6 Perform operational check                                                                               -        -        -         -
4.38.7 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                    -        -        -         -
4.38.8 Remove LRU(s)                                                                                           -        -        -         -
4.38.9 Install LRU(s)                                                                                          -        -        -         -
4.39 ENHANCED EXPANDED FIRE
       CONTROL COMPUTER
       (EEFCC) TR: Applicable F-16 -2
       and -34 series TOs
4.39.1 System Description                                                                                     A        -         -         -
4.39.2 System Operation                                                                                       A        -         -         -
4.39.3 System Theory                                                                                           -       A         -         B
4.39.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                1b        -         -         -
4.39.5 Perform operational checkout              *                                                             -       -         -         -
4.39.6 Isolate malfunctions                              *                                                   1b        -         -         -
4.39.7 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                    -       -         -         -
4.39.8 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                   -       -         -         -
4.39.9 Load OFP                                  *                                                             -       -         -         -
4.40 GENERAL AVIONICS
  COMPUTER (GAC) TR: Applicable
  F-16 –2 and –34 series TOs
4.40.1 System Description                                                                                     A         -        -         -
4.40.2 System Operation                                                                                       A         -        -         -
4.40.3 System Theory                                                                                           -        -        -         -
4.40.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                  -        -        -         -
4.40.5 Perform operational check                 *                                                             -        -        -         -
4.40.6 Isolate malfunctions                              *                                                     -        -        -         -
4.40.7 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                    -        -        -         -
4.40.8 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                   -        -        -         -
4.40.9 Load OFP                                  *                                                             -        -        -         -
4.41 MODULAR MISSION
  COMPUTER (MMC) TR: Applicable
  F-16 -2 and -34 series TOs
4.41.1 System Description                                                                                     A        -         -         -
4.41.2 System Operation                                                                                       A        -         -         -
4.41.3 System Theory                                                                                           -       A         -         B
4.41.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                  -       -         -         -
4.41.5 Perform operational check                 *                                                             -       -         -         -
4.41.6 Isolate malfunctions                              *                                                     -       -         -         -
4.41.7 Remove system LRM(s)                                                                                    -       -         -         -
4.41.8 Install system LRM(s)                                                                                   -       -         -         -
                                                                 51
                                    F-16 C/D TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                           Indicate Training/Information
                                              Task                                                         Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

4.41.9 Remove and replace other LRU(s)                                                                          -       -        -         -
4.41.10 Use test equipment                                                                                      -       -        -         -
4.41.11 Load OFP                                 *                                                              -       -        -         -
4.42 HEAD UP DISPLAY (HUD)
       SYSTEM TR: Applicable F-16 -2
       and -34 series TOs
4.42.1 System Description                                                                                       -      -         -         -
4.42.2 System Operation                                                                                         -      -         -         -
4.42.3 System Theory                                                                                            -      A         -         -
4.42.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                   -      -         -         -
4.42.5 Perform operational checkout and          *                                                              -      -         -         -
       BIT
4.42.6 Isolate malfunctions                              *                                                      -       -        -         -
4.42.7 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.42.8 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                    -       -        -         -
4.43 JOINT HELMET MOUNTED
       CUEING SYSTEM (JHMCS)
4.43.1 System Description                                                                                     A        -         -         -
4.43.2 System Operation                                                                                       A        -         -         -
4.43.3 System Theory                                                                                           -       A         -         -
4.43.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                  -       -         -         -
4.43.5 Perform operation checkout                                                                              -       -         -         -
4.43.6 Isolate malfunction                                                                                     -       -         -         -
4.43.7 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                    -       -         -         -
4.43.8 Install system (LRU(s)                                                                                  -       -         -         -
4.43.9 Use test equipment                                                                                      -       -         -         -
4.43.10 Load OFP                                                                                               -       -         -         -
4.43.11 Perform Cockpit Magnetic                                                                               -       -         -         -
       Mapping
4.44 DATA TRANSFER EQUIPMENT
       (DTE) TR: Applicable F-16 -2
       and - 34 series TOs
4.44.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
4.44.2 System Operation                                                                                         -       -        -         -
4.44.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       -        -         -
4.44.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                   -       -        -         -
4.44.5 Perform operational checkout and                                                                         -       -        -         -
       BIT
4.44.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.44.7 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.44.8 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                    -       -        -         -
4.45 MULTI-FUNCTION DISPLAY
       SET (MFDS), TR: Applicable F-16
       -2 and -34 series TOs
4.45.1 System Description                                                                                       -      -         -         -
4.45.2 System Operation                                                                                         -      -         -         -
4.45.3 System Theory                                                                                            -      A         -         -

                                                                 52
                                    F-16 C/D TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                           Indicate Training/Information
                                              Task                                                         Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

4.45.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                   -       -        -         -
4.45.5 Perform operational checkout and          *                                                              -       -        -         -
       BIT
4.45.6 Isolate malfunction                               *                                                      -       -        -         -
4.45.7 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.45.8 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                    -       -        -         -
4.45.9 Load OFP                                                                                                 -       -        -         -
4.46 ADVANCED COLOR MULTI-
       FUNCTION DISPLAY SET
       (ACMFDS) TR: Applicable F-16
4.46.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
4.46.2 System Operation                                                                                         -       -        -         -
4.46.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       -        -         -
4.46.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                   -       -        -         -
4.46.5 Perform operational checkout and          *
                                                                                                                -       -        -         -
       BIT
4.46.6 Isolate malfunction                       *                                                              -       -        -         -
4.46.7 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.46.8 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                    -       -        -         -
4.46.9 Load OFP                                                                                                 -       -        -         -
4.47 COLOR MULTI-FUNCTION
       DISPLAY SET (CMFDS) TR:
       Applicable F-16 -2 and -34 series
       TOs
4.47.1 System Description                                                                                     A         -        -         -
4.47.2 System Operation                                                                                       A         -        -         -
4.47.3 System Theory                                                                                           -        -        -         -
4.47.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                  -        -        -         -
4.47.5 Perform operational checkout              *                                                           2b         -        -         -
4.47.6 Isolate malfunction                               *                                                     -        -        -         -
4.47.7 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                    -        -        -         -
4.47.8 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                   -        -        -         -
4.47.9 Use test equipment                                                                                      -        -        -         -
4.47.10 Load OFP                                                                                               -        -        -         -
4.48 UPFRONT CONTROL SYSTEM
       (UFC) TR: Applicable F-16 -2
       and - 34 series TOs
4.48.1 System Description                                                                                     A        -         -         -
4.48.2 System Operation                                                                                       A        -         -         -
4.48.3 System Theory                                                                                           -       A         -         -
4.48.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                  -       -         -         -
4.48.5 Perform operational checkout and          *                                                           2b        -         -         -
       BIT
4.48.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.48.7 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.48.8 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                    -       -        -         -
4.48.9 Load OFP                                                                                                 -       -        -         -
4.49 MULTIPLEX BUS TR: Applicable
       F-16 -2 and -34 series TOs
                                                                 53
                                    F-16 C/D TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                           Indicate Training/Information
                                              Task                                                         Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

4.49.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
4.49.2 System Operation                                                                                         -       -        -         -
4.49.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       -        -         -
4.49.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                   -       -        -         -
4.49.5 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.49.6 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.49.7 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                    -       -        -         -
4.49.8 Use test equipment                                                                                       -       -        -         -
4.50 IMPROVED AIRBORNE VIDEO
     TAPE RECORDER (IAVTR)
     SYSTEM/COLOR AIRBORNE
     VIDEO TAPE RECORDER
     (CAVTR) TR: Applicable F-1 6 -2
     and -34 series TOs
4.50.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
4.50.2 System Operation                                                                                         -       -        -         -
4.50.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       -        -         -
4.50.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                   -       -        -         -
4.50.5 Perform operational checkout and                                                                         -       -        -         -
       BIT
4.50.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.50.7 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.50.8 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                    -       -        -         -
4.50.9 Perform CTVS HUD Video                                                                                   -       -        -         -
       Alignment
4.51 Digital Video Recorder (DVR) TR:
       Applicable F-16 -2 &-34 Series TOs
4.51.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
4.51.2 System Operation                                                                                         -       -        -         -
4.51.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       -        -         -
4.51.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                   -       -        -         -
4.51.5 Perform operational checkout and
                                                                                                                -       -        -         -
       BIT
4.51.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.51.7 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.51.8 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                    -       -        -         -
4.51.9 Perform CTVS Hud Video
                                                                                                                -       -        -         -
       Alignment
4.52 ALR-69 RADAR THREAT
       WARNING SYSTEM (RTWS)
       TR: Applicable F16 -2 series TOs
4.52.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
4.52.2 System Operation                                                                                         -       -        -         -
4.52.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       -        -         -
4.52.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                   -       -        -         -
4.52.5 Perform confidence check                                                                                 -       -        -         -
4.52.6 Perform operational checkout              *                                                              -       -        -         -
4.52.7 Isolate malfunctions                              *                                                      -       -        -         -
                                                                 54
                                    F-16 C/D TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                             2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                           Indicate Training/Information
                                             Task                                                          Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

4.52.8 Remove system LRU(s)
4.52.8.1 Receiver controller                                                                                    -       -        -         -
4.52.8.2 Other LRU(s)                                                                                           -       -        -         -
4.52.9 Install system LRU(s)
4.52.9.1 Receiver controller                                                                                    -       -        -         -
4.52.9.2 Other LRU(s)                                                                                           -       -        -         -
4.52.10 Perform EOR checks                                                                                      -       -        -         -
4.52.11 Perform 90 day checks                                                                                   -       -        -         -
4.52.12 Load OFP                                                                                                -       -        -         -
4.53 ALR-56M ADVANCED RADAR
       WARNING RECEIVER TR:
       Applicable F-16 -2 series TOs
4.53.1 System Description                                                                                     A        -         -         -
4.53.2 System Operation                                                                                       A        -         -         -
4.53.3 System Theory                                                                                           -       A         -         B
4.53.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                  -       -         -         -
4.53.5 Perform confidence check                  *                                                             -       -         -         -
4.53.6 Perform operational checkout              *                                                           2b        -         -         -
4.53.7 Isolate malfunctions                              *                                                   2b        -         -         -
4.53.8 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                    -       -         -         -
4.53.9 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                   -       -         -         -
4.53.10 Perform EOR checks                                                                                     -       -         -         -
4.53.11 Perform 90 day checks                                                                                  -       -         -         -
4.53.12 Load OFP                                                                                               -       -         -         -
4.54 COUNTERMEASURES SET
       (CMS) (ALQ-213) TR: Applicable
       F16 -2 and -34 series TOs
4.54.1 System Description                                                                                     A         -        -         -
4.54.2 System Operation
4.54.2.1 CMS                                                                                                  A        -         -         -
4.54.2.2 Radar Threat Warning                                                                                 A        -         -         -
4.54.2.3 Countermeasures Dispensing                                                                           A        -         -         -
4.54.3 System Theory                                                                                           -       A         -         B
4.54.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                1b        -         -         -
4.54.5 Perform operational check
4.54.5.1 Radar Threat Warning                                                                                   -       -        -         -
4.54.5.2 Countermeasures Dispensing                                                                             -       -        -         -
4.54.5.3 Pylon Integrated Dispenser
                                                                                                                -       -        -         -
       System
4.54.6 Load/verify/reprogram
4.54.6.1 CMS                                                                                                    -       -        -         -
4.54.6.2 RTWS                                                                                                   -       -        -         -
4.54.7 Isolate malfunctions
4.54.7.1 CMS                                                                                                    -       -        -         -
4.54.7.2 Radar Threat Warning                                                                                   -       -        -         -
4.54.7.3 Countermeasures Dispensing                                                                             -       -        -         -
                                                                 55
                                      F-16 C/D TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                           Indicate Training/Information
                                              Task                                                         Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

4.54.8 Remove system LRU(s)
4.54.8.1 CMS                                                                                                  -         -        -         -
4.54.8.2 Radar Threat Warning                                                                                 -         -        -         -
4.54.8.3 Receiver Controller                                                                                 2b         -        -         -
4.54.8.4 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -         -        -         -
4.54.8.5 Countermeasures Dispensing                                                                           -         -        -         -
4.54.8.6 Pylon integrated Dispenser
                                                                                                                -       -        -         -
       System (PIDS)
4.54.9 Install system LRU(s)
4.54.9.1 CMS                                                                                                  -         -        -         -
4.54.9.2 Radar Threat Warning                                                                                 -         -        -         -
4.54.9.3 Receiver Controller                                                                                 2b         -        -         -
4.54.9.4 Receiver Controller                                                                                  -
4.54.9.5 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -         -        -         -
4.54.9.6 Countermeasures Dispensing                                                                           -         -        -         -
4.54.9.7 Pylon integrated Dispenser
                                                                                                                -       -        -         -
       System (PIDS)
4.54.10 Use Test Equipment (PLM-4)                                                                           2b         -        -         -
4.54.11Perform Confidence Check                                                                               -         -        -         -
4.54.12 Perform EOR checks                                                                                    -         -        -         -
4.55 ADVANCED INTERFERENCE
       BLANKER SYSTEM TR:
       Applicable F-16 -2 series TOs
4.55.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
4.55.2 System Operation                                                                                         -       -        -         -
4.55.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       -        -         -
4.55.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                   -       -        -         -
4.55.5 Perform operational checkout and                                                                         -       -        -         -
       BIT
4.55.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.55.7 Use test equipment                                                                                       -       -        -         -
4.55.8 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.55.9 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                    -       -        -         -
4.55.10 Load OFP                                                                                                -       -        -         -
4.56 CHAFF-FLARE DISPENSER
    SYSTEM (CFDS) (ALE-40) TR:
    Applicable F-16 –2 series TOs
4.56.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
4.56.2 System Operation                                                                                         -       -        -         -
4.56.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       -        -         -
4.56.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                   -       -        -         -
4.56.5 Perform operational checkout                                                                             -       -        -         -
4.56.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.56.7 Use test equipment                                                                                       -       -        -         -
4.56.8 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                     -       -        -         -
4.56.9 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                    -       -        -         -

                                                                 56
                                      F-16 C/D TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                           Indicate Training/Information
                                              Task                                                         Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

4.56.10 Pylon Integrated Dispenser
       System (PIDS)
4.56.10.1 Perform operational checkout                                                                          -       -        -         -
4.56.10.2 Remove LRU(s)                                                                                         -       -        -         -
4.56.10.3 Install LRU(s)                                                                                        -       -        -         -
4.57 COUNTERMEASURES
       DISPENSING SET (CMDS)
       (ALE-47) TR: Applicable F-16 -2
       series TOs
4.57.1 System Description                                                                                     A        -         -         -
4.57.2 System Operation                                                                                       A        -         -         -
4.57.3 System Theory                                                                                           -       A         -         -
4.57.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                  -       -         -         -
4.57.5 Perform operational checkout              *                                                           2b        -         -         -
4.57.6 Isolate malfunctions                              *                                                     -       -         -         -
4.57.7 Use test equipment                                                                                      -       -         -         -
4.57.8 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                    -       -         -         -
4.57.9 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                   -       -         -         -




                                                                 57
                                             F-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                    2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                    Task                                                         Provided (See Note)

                                                        A      B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                          7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                   3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                             Skill
                                                                                                                    Level
                                                     5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                       Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC
NOTE1:   The apprentice course will use representative aircraft/trainers to accomplish the system specific training requirements as
         identified by the STS. The common section of the CFETP is used to code core competencies of the career field that
         will be taught in the apprentice course. The MDS specific attachments are to be used in conjunction with the
         common section to identify requirements and annotate qualifications.

NOTE2:   All task/knowledge taught in the initial skills courses will be taught in the wartime initial skills courses.

NOTE3:   Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.

NOTE4:    Core Tasks are identified by an asterisk (*) in the appropriate column.
NOTE 5: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Manager to the AETC Training
         Manager, DSN: 736-7908
5.1 GENERAL AIRCRAFT TASKS
     AND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT TR:
     1F-22A-2-1, 8D2-61-2, AFOSH
     Standard 91-161, TO’s 33A2 series,
     35A4 series, 35D12 series, and 35E9
     series Applicable MQ/ TO’s
5.1.1 Aircraft Familiarization
5.1.1.1 Perform aircraft safe for                       *                                                             -       -        -         -
       maintenance check
5.1.1.2 Operate Portable Maintenance                    *                                                          2b        A         -         -
       Aid (PMA)
5.1.1.3 Integrated Maintenance
       Information System (IMIS)
5.1.1.3.1 Operate IMIS                                  *                                                          2b        A         -         -
5.1.1.3.2 Build Operational Flight                                                                                  -        -         -         -
       Programs (OFP) on uDTC
5.1.1.4 Charge Battery
5.1.1.4.1 CNI Batteries                                                                                               -       -        -         -
5.1.1.4.2 Main Aircraft Battery                                                                                       -       -        -         -
5.1.1.5 Aircraft Doors
5.1.1.5.1 Open (Manually)
5.1.1.5.1.1 Main weapons bay doors                                                                                    -       -        -         -
5.1.1.5.1.2 Side weapons bay doors                                                                                    -       -        -         -
5.1.1.5.2 Close (Manually)
5.1.1.5.2.1 Main weapons bay doors                                                                                    -       -        -         -
5.1.1.5.2.2 Side weapons bay doors                                                                                    -       -        -         -
5.1.1.5.3 Open (Powered)
5.1.1.5.3.1 Main weapons bay doors                                                                                    -       -        -         -
5.1.1.5.3.2 Side weapons bay doors                                                                                    -       -        -         -
5.1.1.5.3.3 Electronic Warfare (EW)                                                                                   -       -        -         -
       doors
5.1.1.5.3.4 Infrared Countermeasures                                                                                  -       -        -         -
       (IRCM) doors
5.1.1.5.3.5 APU doors                                                                                                 -       -        -         -
5.1.1.5.4 Close (Powered)
5.1.1.5.4.1 Main weapons bay doors                                                                                    -       -        -         -
5.1.1.5.4.2 Side weapons bay doors                                                                                    -       -        -         -
5.1.1.5.4.3 Electronic Warfare (EW)                                                                                   -       -        -         -
       doors
5.1.1.5.4.4 Infrared Countermeasures                                                                                  -       -        -         -
       (IRCM) doors
5.1.1.5.4.5 APU doors                                                                                                 -       -        -         -

                                                                       58
                                     F-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

5.1.1.6 Aircraft Servicing
5.1.1.6.1 PAO reservoir                          *                                                            A         -        -         -
5.1.1.7 Maintenance Safety Hazards
5.1.1.7.1 Door and panel edges                                                                                  -       -        -         -
5.1.1.7.2 Aircraft intake and exhaust                                                                           -       -        -         -
5.1.1.7.3 APU intake and exhaust                                                                                -       -        -         -
5.1.1.7.4 Stored Energy System (SES)                                                                            -       -        -         -
5.1.1.7.5 Actuated Launchers                                                                                    -       -        -         -
5.1.1.8 Support Equipment
5.1.1.8.1 Poly Alpha Olefin (PAO)
       Liquid Cooling Cart
5.1.1.8.1.1 Perform pre-use inspection           *                                                           2b        -         -         -
5.1.1.8.1.2 Operate                              *                                                           2b        A         -         -
5.1.1.8.2 Cabin Pressure Tester
5.1.1.8.2.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                          -       -        -         -
5.1.1.8.2.2 Operate                                                                                             -       -        -         -
5.1.1.8.3 Electrical Power Converter
5.1.1.8.3.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                          -       -        -         -
5.1.1.8.3.2 Operate                              *                                                              -       -        -         -
5.1.1.8.4 Bleed Air Cart
5.1.1.8.4.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                          -       -        -         -
5.1.1.8.4.2 Operate                                                                                             -       -        -         -
5.1.1.8.5 Avionics Common Components
       Repair Kit
5.1.1.8.5.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                          -       -        -         -
5.1.1.8.5.2 Operate                                                                                             -       -        -         -
5.1.1.8.6 Advanced Diagnostic Interface
       Tool (ADIT)
5.1.1.8.6.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                          -       -        -         -
5.1.1.8.6.2 Operate                                                                                             -       -        -         -
5.1.1.8.6.3 Install/Update Software                                                                             -       -        -         -
5.1.1.8.7 Paddle Boards
5.1.1.8.7.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                          -       -        -         -
5.1.1.8.7.2 Operate                                                                                             -       -        -         -
5.2 GENERAL AVIONICS AND
       ENVIRONMENTAL
       MAINTENANCE TR: 1F-22A-
       2-1, applicable TOD
5.2.1 Elements of Physics
5.2.1.1 Temperature                                                                                            B       B         -         -
5.2.1.2 Pressure                                                                                               B       B         -         -
5.2.1.3 Atmosphere                                                                                             B       B         -         -
5.2.1.4 Air flow                                                                                               B       B         -         -
5.2.2 Load Operational Flight Programs           *                                                             a       -         -         -
       (OFPs) to Aircraft
5.2.3 Automated Wiring System
5.2.3.1 Use Schematic Display                    *                                                           2b         -        -         -
5.2.3.2 Use Signal Path                          *                                                           2b         -        -         -
5.2.4 Perform System IBITs                       *                                                           2b         -        -         -
5.2.5 Remove
5.2.5.1 Cockpit Control Panels                                                                               2b         -        -         -
5.2.5.2 Line Replaceable Modules (LRM)           *                                                           2b         -        -         -
                                                                 59
                                     F-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

5.2.5.3 Integrated Avionics Rack (IAR)                                                                        -         -        -         -
5.2.5.4 Lower IAR                                *                                                           2b         -        -         -
5.2.5.5 IAR Backplanes                                                                                        -         -        -         -
5.2.5.6 Modulation Valves                                                                                    2b         -        -         -
5.2.5.7 Shut Off Valves (SOV’s)                                                                               -         -        -         -
5.2.5.8 Temperature Sensors                                                                                  2b         -        -         -
5.2.5.9 Check Valves                                                                                          -         -        -         -
5.2.5.10 Pressure Sensors                                                                                     -         -        -         -
5.2.5.11 Heat Exchangers                                                                                      -         -        -         -
5.2.5.12 Air ducts                                                                                            -         -        -         -
5.2.5.13 Air hose                                                                                             -         -        -         -
5.2.5.14 Air lines                                                                                            -         -        -         -
5.2.5.15 Liquid hoses                                                                                         -         -        -         -
5.2.5.16 Liquid tubes                                                                                         -         -        -         -
5.2.5.17 Squibs/Electro Explosive Device                                                                      -         -        -         -
         (EED)
5.2.6 Install
5.2.6.1 Cockpit Control Panels                                                                               2b         -        -         -
5.2.6.2 Line Replaceable Modules (LRM)           *                                                           2b         -        -         -
5.2.6.3 Integrated Avionics Rack (IAR)                                                                        -         -        -         -
5.2.6.4 Raise IAR                                *                                                           2b         -        -         -
5.2.6.5 IAR Backplanes                                                                                        -         -        -         -
5.2.6.6 Modulation Valves                                                                                    2b         -        -         -
5.2.6.7 Shut Off Valves (SOV’s)                                                                               -         -        -         -
5.2.6.8 Temperature Sensors                                                                                  2b         -        -         -
5.2.6.9 Check Valves                                                                                          -         -        -         -
5.2.6.10 Pressure Sensors                                                                                     -         -        -         -
5.2.6.11 Heat Exchangers                                                                                      -         -        -         -
5.2.6.12 Air ducts                                                                                            -         -        -         -
5.2.6.13 Air hose                                                                                             -         -        -         -
5.2.6.14 Air lines                                                                                            -         -        -         -
5.2.6.15 Liquid hoses                                                                                         -         -        -         -
5.2.6.16 Liquid tubes                                                                                         -         -        -         -
5.2.6.17 Squibs/Electro Explosive Device                                                                      -         -        -         -
         (EED)
5.2.7 Egress System
5.2.7.1 Operate Canopy                                                                                       2b         -        -         -
5.2.7.2 Seat adjustment                                                                                       -         -        -         -
5.2.8 Auxiliary Power Unit (APU)
         Operation
5.2.8.1 Operate APU using PMA                    *                                                              -       -        -         -
5.2.8.2 Operate APU from cockpit                                                                                -       -        -         -
5.2.9 Electrical Power Application
5.2.9.1 Connect/Apply Electrical Power
5.2.9.1.1 Facility                                                                                            -         -        -         -
5.2.9.1.2 AGE                                    *                                                           1a         -        -         -
5.5.9.1.3 APU                                                                                                 -         -        -         -
5.2.9.2 Disconnect/Remove Electrical
         Power
5.2.9.2.1 Facility                                                                                            -         -        -         -
5.2.9.2.2 AGE                                    *                                                           1a         -        -         -

                                                                 60
                                     F-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

5.2.9.2.3 APU                                                                                                   -       -        -         -
5.2.10 PAO Cart Cooling Application
5.2.10.1 Connect /Apply
5.2.10.1.1 Air                                   *                                                           1a         -        -         -
5.2.10.1.2 Liquid                                *                                                           1a         -        -         -
5.2.10.2 Disconnect /Remove
5.2.10.2.1 Air                                   *                                                           1a         -        -         -
5.2.10.2.2 Liquid                                *                                                           1a         -        -         -
5.3 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL
         SYSTEM TR: 1F-22A-2-1
5.3.1 Bleed Air System
5.3.1.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                           A        A         -         -
5.3.1.2 Perform leak and operational             *                                                             -       -         -         -
         checkout
5.3.1.3 Isolate malfunctions                             *                                                      -       -        -         -
5.3.1.4 Remove System LRU(s)
5.3.1.4.1 Primary heat exchanger                                                                                -       -        -         -
5.3.1.4.2 Bleed air valves                                                                                      -       -        -         -
5.3.1.4.3 Other LRU(s)                                                                                          -       -        -         -
5.3.1.5 Install System LRU(s)
5.3.1.5.1 Primary heat exchanger                                                                                -       -        -         -
5.3.1.5.2 Bleed air valves                                                                                      -       -        -         -
5.3.1.5.3 Other LRU(s)                                                                                          -       -        -         -
5.3.2 Liquid Cooling System
5.3.2.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                           A        A         -         -
5.3.2.2 Perform leak and operational             *                                                             -       -         -         -
         checkout
5.3.2.3 Isolate malfunctions                             *                                                      -       -        -         -
5.3.2.4 Remove System LRU(s)
5.3.2.4.1 Vapor Cycle System Package                                                                         1a         -        -         -
         (VCS)
5.3.2.4.2 Vapor Cycle Controller (VCC)                                                                          -       -        -         -
5.3.2.4.3 PAO pumps                                                                                             -       -        -         -
5.3.2.4.4 PAO pump controller                                                                                   -       -        -         -
5.3.2.4.5 RADAR coolant distribution                                                                            -       -        -         -
         manifold
5.3.2.4.6 PAO reservoir                                                                                         -       -        -         -
5.3.2.4.7 Other LRU(s)                                                                                          -       -        -         -
5.3.2.5 Install System LRU(s)
5.3.2.5.1 Vapor Cycle System Package                                                                         1a         -        -         -
         (VCS)
5.3.2.5.2 Vapor Cycle Controller (VCC)                                                                          -       -        -         -
5.3.2.5.3 PAO pumps                                                                                             -       -        -         -
5.3.2.5.4 PAO pump controller                                                                                   -       -        -         -
5.3.2.5.5 RADAR coolant distribution                                                                            -       -        -         -
         manifold
5.3.2.5.6 PAO reservoir                                                                                         -       -        -         -
5.3.2.5.7 Other LRU(s)                                                                                          -       -        -         -
5.3.3 Air Cooling System
5.3.3.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                           A        A         -         -



                                                                 61
                                     F-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E       A        B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

5.3.3.2 Perform leak and operational             *                                                             -        -        -         -
       checkout
5.3.3.3 Isolate malfunctions                             *                                                     -        -        -         -
5.3.3.4 Remove System LRU(s)
5.3.3.4.1 Water separator coalescers                                                                           -        -        -         -
5.3.3.4.2 High pressure water extractor                                                                        -        -        -         -
5.3.3.4.3 Low pressure water separator                                                                        2b        -        -         -
5.3.3.4.4 Air cycle machine                                                                                    -        -        -         -
5.3.3.4.5 Air conditioning system heat                                                                         -        -        -         -
       exchangers
5.3.3.4.6 Cockpit Water Separator                                                                              -        -        -         -
5.3.3.4.7 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -        -        -         -
5.3.3.5 Install System LRU(s)
5.3.3.5.1 Water separator coalescers                                                                           -        -        -         -
5.3.3.5.2 High pressure water extractor                                                                        -        -        -         -
5.3.3.5.3 Low pressure water separator                                                                        2b        -        -         -
5.3.3.5.4 Air cycle machine                                                                                    -        -        -         -
5.3.3.5.5 Air conditioning system heat                                                                         -        -        -         -
       exchangers
5.3.3.5.6 Cockpit water separator                                                                              -        -        -         -
5.3.3.5.7 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -        -        -         -
5.3.4 Pressurization System
5.3.4.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                           A        A         -         -
5.3.4.2 Perform cabin pressurization leak        *                                                            -        -         -         -
       and operational checkout
5.3.4.3 Adjust canopy seal bellows                                                                             -        -        -         -
       assembly
5.3.4.4 Isolate malfunctions                             *                                                     -        -        -         -
5.3.4.5 Remove System LRU(s)
5.3.4.5.1 Canopy seal                                                                                          -        -        -         -
5.3.4.5.2 Cabin pressure regulator                                                                             -        -        -         -
5.3.4.5.3 Canopy seal pressure regulator                                                                       -        -        -         -
5.3.4.5.4 Canopy rain seal                                                                                     -        -        -         -
5.3.4.5.5 Cabin safety/pressure relief                                                                         -        -        -         -
       valve
5.3.4.5.6 Canopy seal bellows assembly                                                                         -        -        -         -
5.3.4.5.7 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -        -        -         -
5.3.4.6 Install System LRU(s)
5.3.4.6.1 Canopy seal                                                                                          -        -        -         -
5.3.4.6.2 Cabin pressure regulator                                                                             -        -        -         -
5.3.4.6.3 Canopy seal pressure regulator                                                                       -        -        -         -
5.3.4.6.4 Canopy rain seal                                                                                     -        -        -         -
5.3.4.6.5 Cabin safety/pressure relief                                                                         -        -        -         -
       valve
5.3.4.6.6 Canopy seal bellows assembly                                                                         -        -        -         -
5.3.4.6.7 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -        -        -         -
5.3.5 On-Board Inert Gas Generation
       System (OBIGGS)
5.3.5.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                           A        A         -         -
5.3.5.2 Perform operational checkout             *                                                            -        -         -         -
5.3.5.3 Isolate malfunctions                             *                                                    -        -         -         -


                                                                 62
                                     F-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

5.3.5.4 Remove System LRU(s)
5.3.5.4.1 Air Separation Module (ASM)                                                                           -       -        -         -
5.3.5.4.2 OBIGGS filter                                                                                         -       -        -         -
5.3.5.4.3 Other LRU(s)                                                                                          -       -        -         -
5.3.5.5 Install System LRU(s)
5.3.5.5.1 Air Separation Module (ASM)                                                                           -       -        -         -
5.3.5.5.2 OBIGGS filter                                                                                         -       -        -         -
5.3.5.5.3 Other LRU(s)                                                                                          -       -        -         -
5.4 ELECTRICAL POWER SYSTEM
       TR: 1F-22A-2-1
5.4.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                             A        A         -         -
5.4.2 Perform operational checkout               *                                                             -       -         -         -
5.4.3 Isolate malfunctions                               *                                                     -       -         -         -
5.4.4 Remove System LRU(s)
5.4.4.1 Main aircraft generators                 *                                                           2b         -        -         -
5.4.4.2 Auxiliary generator                                                                                   -         -        -         -
5.4.4.3 Generator control units                                                                               -         -        -         -
5.4.4.4 Auxiliary generator control unit                                                                      -         -        -         -
5.4.4.5 Power distribution centers               *                                                           2b         -        -         -
5.4.4.6 Generator distribution centers                                                                        -         -        -         -
5.4.4.7 115 VAC inverters                                                                                     -         -        -         -
5.4.4.8 28 VDC Converters                                                                                     -         -        -         -
5.4.4.9 Flight control converter regulators                                                                   -         -        -         -
5.4.4.10 Main Aircraft battery                   *                                                           2b         -        -         -
5.4.4.11 Battery charger control unit                                                                        2b         -        -         -
5.4.4.12 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -         -        -         -
5.4.5 Install System LRU(s)
5.4.5.1 Main aircraft generators                 *                                                           2b         -        -         -
5.4.5.2 Auxiliary generator                                                                                   -         -        -         -
5.4.5.3 Generator control units                                                                               -         -        -         -
5.4.5.4 Auxiliary generator control unit                                                                      -         -        -         -
5.4.5.5 Power distribution centers               *                                                           2b         -        -         -
5.4.5.6 Generator distribution centers                                                                        -         -        -         -
5.4.5.7 115 VAC inverters                                                                                     -         -        -         -
5.4.5.8 28 VDC Converters                                                                                     -         -        -         -
5.4.5.9 Flight control converter regulators                                                                   -         -        -         -
5.4.5.10 Main Aircraft battery                   *                                                           2b         -        -         -
5.4.5.11 Battery charger control unit                                                                        2b         -        -         -
5.4.5.12 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -         -        -         -
5.5 FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM TR:
       1F-22A-2-1
5.5.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                             A         -        -         -
5.5.2 Perform operational checkout                                                                             -        -        -         -
5.5.3 Clean optical fire detector                                                                              -        -        -         -
5.5.4 Isolate malfunctions                               *                                                     -        -        -         -
5.5.5 Remove System LRU(s)
5.5.5.1 Optical fire detectors                                                                                  -       -        -         -
5.5.5.2 Dry bay fire protection units                                                                           -       -        -         -
5.5.5.3 Bleed air overheat detection                                                                            -       -        -         -
       elements
5.5.5.4 Voltage supply units                                                                                    -       -        -         -

                                                                 63
                                     F-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

5.5.5.5 Other LRU(s)                                                                                            -       -        -         -
5.5.6 Install System LRU(s)
5.5.6.1 Optical fire detectors                                                                                  -       -        -         -
5.5.6.2 Dry bay fire protection units                                                                           -       -        -         -
5.5.6.3 Bleed air overheat detection                                                                            -       -        -         -
       elements
5.5.6.4 Voltage supply units                                                                                    -       -        -         -
5.5.6.5 Other LRU(s)                                                                                            -       -        -         -
5.6 INDICATING AND RECORDING
       SYSTEM TR: 1F-22A-2-1
5.6.1 Crash Survivable Memory Unit
       (CSMU)
5.6.1.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                           A         -        -         -
5.6.1.2 Perform operational checkout                                                                           -        -        -         -
5.6.1.3 Download/Clear CSMU Data                                                                               -        -        -         -
5.6.1.4 Isolate malfunctions                             *                                                     -        -        -         -
5.6.1.5 Remove System LRU(s)
5.6.1.5.1 CSMU                                                                                                  -       -        -         -
5.6.1.5.2 Other LRU(s)                                                                                          -       -        -         -
5.6.1.6 Install System LRU(s)
5.6.1.6.1 CSMU                                                                                                  -       -        -         -
5.6.1.6.2 Other LRU(s)                                                                                          -       -        -         -
5.6.2 Flight Data Recorder
5.6.2.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                           A         -        -         -
5.6.2.2 Perform operational checkout                                                                           -        -        -         -
5.6.2.3 Isolate malfunctions                             *                                                     -        -        -         -
5.7 LANDING GEAR SYSTEM TR: 1F-
       22A-2-1
5.7.1 Landing Gear Control
5.7.1.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                           A        A         -         -
5.7.1.2 Perform operational checkout                                                                           -       -         -         -
5.7.1.3 Adjust weight on wheels switches                                                                       -       -         -         -
5.7.1.4 Adjust door position switches                                                                          -       -         -         -
5.7.1.5 Adjust gear position switches                                                                          -       -         -         -
5.7.1.6 Isolate malfunctions                             *                                                     -       -         -         -
5.7.1.7 Remove System LRU(s)
5.7.1.7.1 Landing gear control panel                                                                            -       -        -         -
5.7.1.7.2 WOW switches                                                                                          -       -        -         -
5.7.1.7.3 Door position switches                                                                                -       -        -         -
5.7.1.7.4 Gear position switches                                                                                -       -        -         -
5.7.1.7.5 Other LRU(s)                                                                                          -       -        -         -
5.7.1.8 Install System LRU(s)
5.7.1.8.1 Landing gear control panel                                                                            -       -        -         -
5.7.1.8.2 WOW switches                                                                                          -       -        -         -
5.7.1.8.3 Door position switches                                                                                -       -        -         -
5.7.1.8.4 Gear position switches                                                                                -       -        -         -
5.7.1.8.5 Other LRU(s)                                                                                          -       -        -         -
5.7.2 Anti-Skid System
5.7.2.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                           A         -        -         -
5.7.2.2 Perform operational checkout                                                                           -        -        -         -
5.7.2.3 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                   -        -        -         -

                                                                 64
                                     F-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E       A        B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

5.7.2.4 Remove System LRU(s)
5.7.2.4.1 Wheel speed sensors                                                                                2b         -        -         -
5.7.2.4.2 Other LRU(s)                                                                                        -         -        -         -
5.7.2.5 Install System LRU(s)
5.7.2.5.1 Wheel speed sensors                                                                                2b         -        -         -
5.7.2.5.2 Other LRU(s)                                                                                        -         -        -         -
5.8 LIGHTING SYSTEM
       TR: 1F-22A-2-1
5.8.1 Exterior Lighting System
5.8.1.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                           A         -        -         -
5.8.1.2 Perform operational checkout             *                                                            -         -        -         -
5.8.1.3 Isolate malfunctions                             *                                                    -         -        -         -
5.8.1.4 Remove System LRU(s)
5.8.1.4.1 Anti-collision/position light                                                                        -        -        -         -
       assemblies
5.8.1.4.2 Anti-collision strobe filter                                                                         -        -        -         -
       assembly
5.8.1.4.3 Formation light assemblies                                                                           -        -        -         -
5.8.1.4.4 Navigation light power supply                                                                        -        -        -         -
5.8.1.4.5 In-flight refueling lights                                                                           -        -        -         -
5.8.1.4.6 Weapons bay lights                                                                                   -        -        -         -
5.8.1.4.7 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -        -        -         -
5.8.1.5 Install System LRU(s)
5.8.1.5.1 Anti-collision/position light                                                                        -        -        -         -
       assemblies
5.8.1.5.2 Anti-collision strobe filter                                                                         -        -        -         -
       assembly
5.8.1.5.3 Formation light assemblies                                                                           -        -        -         -
5.8.1.5.4 Navigation light power supply                                                                        -        -        -         -
5.8.1.5.5 In-flight refueling lights                                                                           -        -        -         -
5.8.1.5.6 Weapons bay lights                                                                                   -        -        -         -
5.8.1.5.7 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -        -        -         -
5.8.2 Interior Lighting System
5.8.2.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                           A         -        -         -
5.8.2.2 Perform operational checkout             *                                                            -         -        -         -
5.8.2.3 Isolate malfunctions                             *                                                    -         -        -         -
5.8.2.4 Remove System LRU(s)
5.8.2.4.1 Map lights                                                                                           -        -        -         -
5.8.2.4.2 Flood lights                                                                                         -        -        -         -
5.8.2.4.3 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -        -        -         -
5.8.2.5 Install System LRU(s)
5.8.2.5.1 Map lights                                                                                           -        -        -         -
5.8.2.5.2 Flood lights                                                                                         -        -        -         -
5.8.2.5.3 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -        -        -         -
5.9 GLOBAL POSITIONING
     INERTIAL NAVIGATION SYSTEM
     (GINS) TR: 1F- 22A-2-1
5.9.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                             A         -        -         -
5.9.2 Perform operational checkout                                                                            -         -        -         -
5.9.3 Isolate malfunctions                               *                                                    -         -        -         -
5.9.4 Remove System LRU(s)


                                                                 65
                                     F-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

5.9.4.1 GINS units                                                                                              -       -        -         -
5.9.4.2 GINS pre-amplifier                                                                                      -       -        -         -
5.9.4.3 GINS antenna                                                                                            -       -        -         -
5.9.4.4 Other LRU(s)                                                                                            -       -        -         -
5.9.5 Install System LRU(s)
5.9.5.1 GINS units                                                                                              -       -        -         -
5.9.5.2 GINS pre-amplifier                                                                                      -       -        -         -
5.9.5.3 GINS antenna                                                                                            -       -        -         -
5.9.5.4 Other LRU(s)                                                                                            -       -        -         -
5.10 ON-BOARD OXYGEN
       GENERATION SYSTEM TR:
       1F- 22A-2-1
5.10.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                            A        A         -         -
5.10.2 Perform operational checkout              *                                                             -       -         -         -
5.10.3 Isolate malfunctions                              *                                                     -       -         -         -
5.10.4 Remove System LRU(s)
5.10.4.1 Oxygen control panel (BRAG                                                                             -       -        -         -
       valve)
5.10.4.2 OBOGS unit                                                                                             -       -        -         -
5.10.4.3 Multi-Function Valve                                                                                   -       -        -         -
5.10.4.4 Other LRU(s)                                                                                           -       -        -         -
5.10.5 Install System LRU(s)
5.10.5.1 Oxygen control panel (BRAG                                                                             -       -        -         -
       valve)
5.10.5.2 OBOGS unit                                                                                             -       -        -         -
5.10.5.3 Multi-Function Valve                                                                                   -       -        -         -
5.10.5.4 Other LRU(s)                                                                                           -       -        -         -
5.11 INTEGRATED AVIONICS
       ARCHITECTURE SYSTEM TR:
       1F-22A-2-1
5.11.1 Cockpit Displays
5.11.1.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                          A         -        -         -
5.11.1.2 Perform operational checkout            *                                                             -        -        -         -
5.11.1.3 Isolate malfunctions                            *                                                     -        -        -         -
5.11.1.4 Remove System LRU(s)
5.11.1.4.1 Multifunction display                 *                                                           2b         -        -         -
5.11.1.4.2 Up-front display                                                                                   -         -        -         -
5.11.1.4.3 Head-up-display unit                  *                                                           2b         -        -         -
5.11.1.4.4 Head-up-display mount                                                                              -         -        -         -
5.11.1.4.5 Other LRU(s)                                                                                       -         -        -         -
5.11.1.5 Install System LRU(s)
5.11.1.5.1 Multifunction display                 *                                                           2b         -        -         -
5.11.1.5.2 Up-front display                                                                                   -         -        -         -
5.11.1.5.3 Head-up-display unit                  *                                                           2b         -        -         -
5.11.1.5.4 Head-up-display mount                                                                              -         -        -         -
5.11.1.5.5 Other LRU(s)                                                                                       -         -        -         -
5.11.2 Common Integrated Processor
       (CIP)
5.11.2.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                          A         -        -         -
5.11.2.2 Perform operational checkout                                                                          -        -        -         -
5.11.2.3 Key KOV

                                                                 66
                                     F-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

5.11.2.3.1 KOV 20                                                                                               -       -        -         -
5.11.2.3.2 KOV 40                                                                                               -       -        -         -
5.11.2.4 Isolate malfunctions                            *                                                      -       -        -         -
5.11.2.5 Remove System LRU(s)
5.11.2.5.1 CIP rack power supplies                                                                              -       -        -         -
5.11.2.5.2 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -       -        -         -
5.11.2.6 Install System LRU(s)
5.11.2.6.1 CIP rack power supplies                                                                              -       -        -         -
5.11.2.6.2 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -       -        -         -
5.11.3 Communication, Navigation, and
       Identification (CNI) Systems
5.11.3.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                          A         -        -         -
5.11.3.2 Perform operational checkout                                                                          -        -        -         -
5.11.3.3 Operate aircraft inter-                 *                                                           2b         -        -         -
       communication system
5.11.3.4 Operate aircraft AUX Comm.                                                                             -       -        -         -
       radio
5.11.3.5 Perform voice message unit                                                                             -       -        -         -
       operational check
5.11.3.6 Perform air refuel amplifier                                                                           -       -        -         -
       operational check
5.11.3.7 Isolate malfunctions                            *                                                      -       -        -         -
5.11.3.8 Remove System LRU(s)
5.11.3.8.1 CNI batteries                         *                                                              -       -        -         -
5.11.3.8.2 Auxiliary Communication                                                                              -       -        -         -
       panel
5.11.3.8.3 Voice message unit                                                                                   -       -        -         -
5.11.3.8.4 Air refuel amplifier                                                                                 -       -        -         -
5.11.3.8.5 UHF antennas                                                                                         -       -        -         -
5.11.3.8.6 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -       -        -         -
5.11.3.9 Install System LRU(s)
5.11.3.9.1 CNI batteries                         *                                                              -       -        -         -
5.11.3.9.2 Auxiliary Communication                                                                              -       -        -         -
       panel
5.11.3.9.3 Voice message unit                                                                                   -       -        -         -
5.11.3.9.4 Air refuel amplifier                                                                                 -       -        -         -
5.11.3.9.5 UHF antennas                                                                                         -       -        -         -
5.11.3.9.6 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -       -        -         -
5.11.4 Instrument Landing System (ILS)
5.11.4.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                          A         -        -         -
5.11.4.2 Perform operational checkout                                                                          -        -        -         -
5.11.4.3 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                  -        -        -         -
5.11.4.4 Remove System LRU(s)
5.11.4.4.1 Marker beacon antenna                                                                                -       -        -         -
5.11.4.4.2 Glideslope antenna                                                                                   -       -        -         -
5.11.4.4.3 Localizer antenna                                                                                    -       -        -         -
5.11.4.4.4 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -       -        -         -
5.11.4.5 Install System LRU(s)
5.11.4.5.1 Marker beacon antenna                                                                                -       -        -         -
5.11.4.5.2 Glideslope antenna                                                                                   -       -        -         -
5.11.4.5.3 Localizer antenna                                                                                    -       -        -         -

                                                                 67
                                     F-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

5.11.4.5.4 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -       -        -         -
5.11.5 TACAN System
5.11.5.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                          A         -        -         -
5.11.5.2 Perform operational checkout                                                                          -        -        -         -
5.11.5.3 Isolate malfunctions                            *                                                     -        -        -         -
5.11.5.4 Remove System LRU(s)
5.11.5.4.1 TACAN antennas                                                                                       -       -        -         -
5.11.5.4.2 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -       -        -         -
5.11.5.5 Install System LRU(s)
5.11.5.5.1 TACAN antennas                                                                                       -       -        -         -
5.11.5.5.2 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -       -        -         -
5.11.6 Air Combat Maneuvering
       Instrumentation (ACMI)
5.11.6.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                          A         -        -         -
5.11.6.2 Perform operational checkout                                                                          -        -        -         -
5.11.6.3 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                  -        -        -         -
5.11.6.4 Remove system components                                                                              -        -        -         -
5.11.6.5 Install system components                                                                             -        -        -         -
5.11.7 Identification Friend or Foe (IFF)
       System
5.11.7.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                          A         -        -         -
5.11.7.2 Perform operational checkout                                                                          -        -        -         -
5.11.7.3 Isolate malfunctions                            *                                                     -        -        -         -
5.11.7.4 Remove System LRU(s)
5.11.7.4.1 IFF antennas                                                                                         -       -        -         -
5.11.7.4.2 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -       -        -         -
5.11.7.5 Install System LRU(s)
5.11.7.5.1 IFF antennas                                                                                         -       -        -         -
5.11.7.5.2 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -       -        -         -
5.11.8 Air-to-Air Interrogator (AAI)
       System
5.11.8.1 System Theory and operation                                                                          A        A         -         -
5.11.8.2 Perform operational checkout                                                                          -       -         -         -
5.11.8.3 Isolate malfunctions                            *                                                     -       -         -         -
5.11.9 Intra Flight Data link (IFDL)
       System
5.11.9.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                          A        A         -         -
5.11.9.2 Perform operational checkout                                                                          -       -         -         -
5.11.9.3 Isolate malfunctions                            *                                                     -       -         -         -
5.11.9.4 Remove System LRU(s)
5.11.9.4.1 IFDL Receiver/Transmitter                                                                          -         -        -         -
5.11.9.4.2 IFDL antennas                                                                                     2b         -        -         -
5.11.9.4.3 IFDL controllers                                                                                   -         -        -         -
5.11.9.4.4 Other LRU(s)                                                                                       -         -        -         -
5.11.9.5 Install System LRU(s)
5.11.9.5.1 IFDL Receiver/Transmitter                                                                          -         -        -         -
5.11.9.5.2 IFDL antennas                                                                                     2b         -        -         -
5.11.9.5.3 IFDL controllers                                                                                   -         -        -         -
5.11.9.5.4 Other LRU(s)                                                                                       -         -        -         -
5.11.10 RADAR
5.11.10.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                         A         -        -         -

                                                                 68
                                     F-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

5.11.10.2 Perform operational checkout                                                                          -       -        -         -
5.11.10.3 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                  -       -        -         -
5.11.10.4 Remove System LRU(s)
5.11.10.4.1 Array assembly                                                                                      -       -        -         -
5.11.10.4.2 RADAR Support Electronics                                                                           -       -        -         -
       (RSE) chassis
5.11.10.4.3 RF receiver                                                                                         -       -        -         -
5.11.10.4.4 BUS bar                                                                                             -       -        -         -
5.11.10.4.5 Beam steering controller                                                                            -       -        -         -
       module
5.11.10.4.6 Array Power supply                                                                                  -       -        -         -
5.11.10.4.7 Radar Processor                                                                                     -       -        -         -
5.11.10.4.8 Other LRU(s)                                                                                        -       -        -         -
5.11.10.5 Install System LRU(s)
5.11.10.5.1 Array assembly                                                                                      -       -        -         -
5.11.10.5.2 RADAR Support Electronics                                                                           -       -        -         -
       (RSE) chassis
5.11.10.5.3 RF receiver                                                                                         -       -        -         -
5.11.10.5.4 BUS bar                                                                                             -       -        -         -
5.11.10.5.5 Beam steering controller                                                                            -       -        -         -
       module
5.11.10.5.6 Array Power supply                                                                                  -       -        -         -
5.11.10.5.7 Radar Processor                                                                                     -       -        -         -
5.11.10.5.8 Other LRU(s)                                                                                        -       -        -         -
5.11.11 Data Transfer System
5.11.11.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                         A        A         -         -
5.11.11.2 Perform operational checkout                                                                         -       -         -         -
5.11.11.3 Isolate malfunctions                           *                                                     -       -         -         -
5.11.11.4 Remove System LRU(s)
5.11.11.4.1 DMVR/Mass Memory unit                                                                             -         -        -         -
5.11.11.4.2 Micro Data Transfer                                                                              2b         -        -         -
       Cartridge (uDTC)
5.11.11.4.3 Video Data Cartridge (VDC)                                                                          -       -        -         -
5.11.11.4.4 Other LRU(s)                                                                                        -       -        -         -
5.11.11.5 Install System LRU(s)
5.11.11.5.1 DMVR/Mass Memory unit                                                                             -         -        -         -
5.11.11.5.2 Micro Data Transfer                                                                              2b         -        -         -
       Cartridge (uDTC)
5.11.11.5.3 Video Data Cartridge (VDC)                                                                          -       -        -         -
5.11.11.5.4 Other LRU(s)                                                                                        -       -        -         -
5.12 FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEM TR:
       1F-22A-2-1
5.12.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                            A         -        -         -
5.12.2 Perform operational checkout              *                                                             -        -        -         -
5.12.3 Perform FLCS auto-rig                                                                                   -        -        -         -
5.12.4 Perform FLCS memory read                                                                                -        -        -         -
5.12.5 Isolate malfunctions                              *                                                     -        -        -         -
5.12.6 Remove System LRU(s)
5.12.6.1 Accelerometer assembly                                                                                 -       -        -         -
5.12.6.2 Rate Gyro assemblies                                                                                   -       -        -         -
5.12.6.3 Side stick controller                                                                                  -       -        -         -


                                                                 69
                                     F-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

5.12.6.4 Side stick controller assembly                                                                       -         -        -         -
5.12.6.5 Throttle grips                                                                                      2b         -        -         -
5.12.6.6 Throttle quadrant assembly                                                                           -         -        -         -
5.12.6.7 Rudder Pedal assembly                                                                                -         -        -         -
5.12.6.8 Alpha probe transducers                                                                             2b         -        -         -
5.12.6.9 Beta probe transducers                                                                               -         -        -         -
5.12.6.10 Other LRU(s)                                                                                        -         -        -         -
5.12.7 Install System LRU(s)
5.12.7.1 Accelerometer assembly                                                                               -         -        -         -
5.12.7.2 Rate Gyro assemblies                                                                                 -         -        -         -
5.12.7.3 Side stick controller                                                                                -         -        -         -
5.12.7.4 Side stick controller assembly                                                                       -         -        -         -
5.12.7.5 Throttle grips                                                                                      2b         -        -         -
5.12.7.6 Throttle quadrant assembly                                                                           -         -        -         -
5.12.7.7 Rudder Pedal assembly                                                                                -         -        -         -
5.12.7.8 Alpha probe transducers                                                                             2b         -        -         -
5.12.7.9 Beta probe transducers                                                                               -         -        -         -
5.12.7.10 Other LRU(s)                                                                                        -         -        -         -
5.13 INTEGRATED VEHICLE
       SUBSYSTEM
       CONTROLLER (IVSC)
5.13.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                            A        A         -         -
5.13.2 Perform operational checkout              *                                                             -       -         -         -
5.13.3 Isolate malfunctions                              *                                                     -       -         -         -
5.13.4 Remove System LRU(s)
5.13.4.1 IVSC LRU’s                                                                                             -       -        -         -
5.13.4.2 Other LRU(s)                                                                                           -       -        -         -
5.13.5 Install System LRU(s)
5.13.5.1 IVSC LRU’s                                                                                             -       -        -         -
5.13.5.2 Other LRU(s)                                                                                           -       -        -         -
5.14 ELECTRONIC WARFARE (EW)
       TR: 1F-22A-2-1
5.14.1 Electronic Warfare System
5.14.1.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                          A         -        -         -
5.14.1.2 Perform operational checkout                                                                          -        -        -         -
5.14.1.3 Isolate malfunctions                            *                                                     -        -        -         -
5.14.1.4 Remove System LRU(s)
5.14.1.4.1 EW power supplies                                                                                 2b         -        -         -
5.14.1.4.2 Remote Array Interface Unit                                                                        -         -        -         -
       (RAIU)
5.14.1.4.3 Electronic array units                                                                               -       -        -         -
5.14.1.4.4 Array/apertures                                                                                      -       -        -         -
5.14.1.4.5 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -       -        -         -
5.14.1.5 Install System LRU(s)
5.14.1.5.1 EW power supplies                                                                                 2b         -        -         -
5.14.1.5.2 Remote Array Interface Unit                                                                        -         -        -         -
       (RAIU)
5.14.1.5.3 Electronic array units                                                                               -       -        -         -
5.14.1.5.4 Array/apertures                                                                                      -       -        -         -
5.14.1.5.5 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -       -        -         -



                                                                 70
                                     F-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

5.14.2 Missile Launch Detector (MLD)
       System
5.14.2.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                            -       -        -         -
5.14.2.2 Perform operational checkout                                                                           -       -        -         -
5.14.2.3 Isolate malfunctions                            *                                                      -       -        -         -
5.14.2.4 Remove System LRU(s)
5.14.2.4.1 MLD sensors                                                                                       2b         -        -         -
5.14.2.4.2 Other LRU(s)                                                                                       -         -        -         -
5.14.2.5 Install System LRU(s)
5.14.2.5.1 MLD sensors                                                                                       2b         -        -         -
5.14.2.5.2 Other LRU(s)                                                                                       -         -        -         -
5.14.3 External Countermeasures
       (EXCM) System
5.14.3.1 System Theory and Operation                                                                          A         -        -         -
5.14.3.2 Perform operational checkout                                                                          -        -        -         -
5.14.3.3 Adjust door position switches                                                                         -        -        -         -
5.14.3.4 Isolate malfunctions                            *                                                     -        -        -         -
5.14.3.5 Remove System LRU(s)
5.14.3.5.1 Infra red countermeasures                                                                            -       -        -         -
       (IRCM) dispensers
5.14.3.5.2 Door position switches                                                                               -       -        -         -
5.14.3.5.3 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -       -        -         -
5.14.3.6 Install System LRU(s)
5.14.3.6.1 Infra red countermeasures                                                                            -       -        -         -
       (IRCM) dispensers
5.14.3.6.2 Door position switches                                                                               -       -        -         -
5.14.3.6.3 Other LRU(s)                                                                                         -       -        -         -




                                                                 71
                                             CV-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                     2. Core   3. Certification For                                 Indicate       Training/Information
                                                     Task                      OJT                                  Provided (See Note)

                                                           A       B    A        B        C       D        E            A          B              C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     5 Skill     7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                      3 Skill    Level
                                                                                                                       Level
                                                         5 Level 7 Level Tng    Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier        (1)       (2)       (1)        (2)
                                                                        Start Complete Initials Initials Initials     Course     CDC       Course     CDC
NOTE1:    The apprentice course will use representative aircraft/trainers to accomplish the system specific training requirements as
          identified by the STS. The common section of the CFETP is used to code core competencies of the career field that will
          be taught in the apprentice course. The MDS specific attachments are to be used in conjunction with the common
          section to identify requirements and annotate qualifications.

NOTE2:    All task/knowledge taught in the initial skills courses will be taught in the wartime initial skills courses.

NOTE3:   Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.

NOTE4:     Core Tasks are identified by an asterisk (*) in the appropriate column.

NOTE 5: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Manager to the AETC Training
        Manager, DSN: 736-7908
NOTE 6: Tasks identified by */R as core tasks are optional for ANG and AFRC when training capability is not available,
        but must be accomplished when capability becomes available..
6.1 TECHNICAL PUBS TR: TOs 00-5-
       1, 00-5-2, 00-5-18, Applicable TOs
6.1.1 Use wiring diagrams                                                                                               -          -          -           -
6.1.2 Use technical orders to perform
6.1.2.1 Maintenance                                        *                                                            -          -          -           -
6.1.2.2 Inspections                                                *                                                    -          -          -           -
6.1.2.3 Time Compliance TO                                                                                              -          -          -           -
6.2 GROUND HANDLING TR: 1V-
       22AB(C)B-2-DB-1 (IETMS)
6.2.1 Operate Auxiliary Power Unit TR:                                                                                  -          -          -           -
       1V-22(C)B-2-72CL-00-1
6.2.2 10 - PARKING AND MOORING
       TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.2.2.1 Blade Fold Wing Stow Supervisor                                                                                 -          -          -           -
6.2.2.2 Blade Fold Wing Stow Team                                                                                       -          -          -           -
       Member
6.2.2.3 Perform Wing Stow                                                                                               -          -          -           -
6.3 25 - EQUIPMENT AND
       FURNISHINGS
6.3.1 2510 - Flight Compartment TR:
     1 V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.3.1.1 Remove/Install Flight                                                                                           -          -          -           -
       Compartment Panels
6.3.2 2520 - Passenger Crew
       Compartment TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-
       1 (IETMS)
6.3.2.1 Remove/Install Cockpit Door                                                                                     -          -          -           -
6.4 26 - FIRE PROTECTION TR: 1V-
       22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.4.1Theory of Operation and System                                                                                     -          -          -           -
       Components
6.4.2 Locate Fire Protection System                                                                                     -          -          -           -
       Components
6.5 27 - FLIGHT CONTROLS
6.5.1 2711 - Cyclic Flight Controls TR:
       1 V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.5.1.1 Understand Theory of Operation                                                                                  -         A           -           -
6.5.1.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                                          -         -           -           -
6.5.1.3 Locate/Inspect Cyclic Flight                                                                                    -         -           -           -
       Control Components

                                                                       72
                                     CV-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E       A        B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

6.5.1.4 Perform Operational Checkout             *                                                             -        -        -         -
6.5.1.5 Isolate Malfunctions                             *                                                     -        -        -         -
6.5.1.6 Remove/Install Cyclic Stick Grip                                                                       -        -        -         -
       Assy
6.5.1.7 Remove/Install Cockpit Control                                                                         -        -        -         -
       Position Transducers (CCPTs)
6.5.1.8 Rig CCPTs                                                                                              -        -        -         -
6.5.1.9 Remove/Install Cockpit Control                                                                         -        -        -         -
       Force Drive Assy (CCFDA)
6.5.1.10 Remove/Install Other Associated                                                                       -        -        -         -
       Components
6.5.2 2712 - Thrust/Power Controls TR:
       1 V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.5.2.1 Understand Theory of Operation                                                                         -        -        -         -
6.5.2.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                                 -        -        -         -
6.5.2.3 Locate/Inspect Thrust/Power                                                                            -        -        -         -
       Control Components
6.5.2.4 Perform Operational Checkout             *                                                             -        -        -         -
6.5.2.5 Isolate Malfunctions                             *                                                     -        -        -         -
6.5.2.6 Remove/Install Thrust Lever                                                                            -        -        -         -
       Friction Potentiometer
6.5.2.7 Remove/Install Thrust Control                                                                          -        -        -         -
       Lever (TCL) Grip Assy
6.5.2.8 Remove/Install Electro-Magnetic                                                                        -        -        -         -
       Interference (EMI) Coupler
6.5.2.9 Remove/Install Cockpit Control                                                                         -        -        -         -
       Position Transducers (CCPTs)
6.5.2.10 Rig CCPTs                                                                                             -        -        -         -
6.5.2.11 Remove/Install Combined                                                                               -        -        -         -
       Cockpit Thrust Drive Actuator
       (CCTDA)
6.5.2.12 Remove/Install Other Associated                                                                       -        -        -         -
       Components
6.5.3 2713 - Yaw Controls TR: 1V-
       22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.5.3.1 Understand Theory of Operation                                                                         -       A         -         -
6.5.3.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                                 -       -         -         -
6.5.3.3 Locate/Inspect Yaw Control                                                                             -       -         -         -
       Components
6.5.3.4 Perform Operational Checkout             *                                                             -        -        -         -
6.5.3.5 Isolate Malfunctions                             *                                                     -        -        -         -
6.5.3.6 Remove/Install CCPTs                                                                                   -        -        -         -
6.5.3.7 Rig CCPTs                                                                                              -        -        -         -
6.5.3.8 Remove/Install CCFDAs                                                                                  -        -        -         -
6.5.3.9 Remove/Install Other Associated                                                                        -        -        -         -
       Components
6.5.4 2720 - Panels & Processing
6.5.4.1 2720** - Panels TR: 1V- 22(C)B-
       2DB-1 (IETMS)
5.5.4.1.1 Understand Theory of                                                                                 -        -        -         -
       Operation
6.5.4.1.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                               -        -        -         -

                                                                 73
                                     CV-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

6.5.4.1.3 Perform Operational Checkout                                                                          -       -        -         -
6.5.4.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                  -       -        -         -
6.5.4.1.5 Remove/Install Flight Control                                                                         -       -        -         -
       Panel
6.5.4.1.6 Remove/Install Flap Control                                                                           -       -        -         -
       Panel
6.5.4.1.7 Remove/Install Engine Control                                                                         -       -        -         -
       Panel
6.5.4.1.8 Remove/Install Remote Hover                                                                           -       -        -         -
       Control Station Panel
6.5.4.2 2720** - Processing TR: 1V-
       22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.5.4.2.1 Understand Theory of                                                                                  -       -        -         -
       Operation
6.5.4.2.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                                -       -        -         -
6.5.4.2.3 Perform Operational Checkout           *                                                              -       -        -         -
6.5.4.2.4 Isolate Malfunctions                           *                                                      -       -        -         -
6.5.4.2.5 Reprogram Flight Control               *                                                              -       -        -         -
       Computers (FCCs)
6.5.4.2.6 Remove/Install                                                                                        -       -        -         -
6.5.4.2.7 Remove/Install FCC #1 Back-                                                                           -       -        -         -
       up Battery
6.5.4.2.8 Remove/Install Cockpit                                                                                -       -        -         -
       Interface Units (CIU)
6.5.4.2.9 Remove/Install Other                                                                                  -       -        -         -
       Associated Components
6.5.5 2724 - Flight Controls Sensing TR:
       1 V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.5.5.1 Understand Theory of Operation                                                                          -       -        -         -
6.5.5.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                                  -       -        -         -
6.5.5.3 Perform Operational Checkout             *                                                              -       -        -         -
6.5.5.4 Isolate Malfunctions                     *                                                              -       -        -         -
6.5.5.5 Remove/Install Air Data Units                                                                           -       -        -         -
       (ADUs)
6.5.5.6 Remove/Install Pitot Probes                                                                             -       -        -         -
6.5.5.7 Remove/Install Angle of Attack                                                                          -       -        -         -
       (AOA) Sensors
6.5.5.8 Perform Leak Check of Pitot                                                                             -       -        -         -
       Static System
6.5.5.9 Remove/Install Rotor Hub                                                                                -       -        -         -
       Flapping Sensors
6.5.5.10 Remove/Install Nacelle Position                                                                        -       -        -         -
       Sensors
6.5.5.11 Remove/Install Rotor Mast                                                                              -       -        -         -
       Torque Sensors
6.5.5.12 Remove/Install Other Associated                                                                        -       -        -         -
       Components
6.5.6 2750 - Flight Controls Actuation
     TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.5.6.1 Understand Theory of Operation                                                                          -       -        -         -
       and Component Locations



                                                                 74
                                     CV-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E       A        B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

6.5.6.2 Inspect Flight Control Actuation                                                                       -        -        -         -
       Components
6.5.6.3 Perform Operational Checkout                                                                           -        -        -         -
6.5.6.4 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                   -        -        -         -
6.6 28 - FUEL SYSTEM
6.6.1 2800 - Fuel System TR: 1V-
       22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.6.1.1 Understand Fuel System                                                                                 -        -        -         -
       Operation Principles
6.6.1.2 Perform Fuel System Operational                                                                        -        -        -         -
       Checkout
6.6.1.3 Isolate Fuel System Malfunctions                                                                       -        -        -         -
6.6.2 2840 - Fuel Quantity Indicating TR:
       1 V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.6.2.1 Understand Theory of Operation                                                                         -        -        -         -
6.6.2.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                                 -        -        -         -
6.6.2.3 Perform Operational Checkout      *                                                                    -        -        -         -
6.6.2.4 Isolate Malfunctions                             *                                                     -        -        -         -
6.6.3 2860 - Fuel Flow/Center of Gravity
       Management TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1
       (IETMS)
6.6.3.1 Understand Theory of Operation                                                                         -        -        -         -
6.6.3.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                                 -        -        -         -
6.6.3.3 Perform Operational Checkout                                                                           -        -        -         -
6.6.3.4 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                   -        -        -         -
6.6.3.5 Remove/Install Fuel Flow                                                                               -        -        -         -
       Monitor Assy
6.6.3.6 Remove/Install Other Associated                                                                        -        -        -         -
       Components
6.6.4 2862 - Ground Refuel/Defuel Panel
       TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.6.4.1 Understand Theory of Operation                                                                         -        -        -         -
6.6.4.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                                 -        -        -         -
6.6.4.3 Perform Operational Checkout                                                                           -        -        -         -
6.6.4.4 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                   -        -        -         -
6.6.4.5 Remove/Install Panel Assy                                                                              -        -        -         -
6.6.5 2863/2864 - Fuel Management Units
       TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.6.5.1 Understand Theory of Operation                                                                         -        -        -         -
6.6.5.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                                 -        -        -         -
6.6.5.3 Perform Operational Checkout                                                                           -        -        -         -
6.6.5.4 Isolate Malfunctions              *                                                                    -        -        -         -
6.6.5.5 Reprogram Fuel Management                        *                                                     -        -        -         -
       Units (FMU)
6.6.5.6 Remove/Install Fuel Management                                                                         -        -        -         -
       Units (FMU)
6.6.5.7 Remove/Install Other Associated                                                                        -        -        -         -
       Components
6.7 29 - HYDRAULIC POWER




                                                                 75
                                     CV-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E       A        B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

6.7.1 2911/2912 - #1 and #2 Hydraulics
       Systems TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1
       (IETMS)
6.7.1.1 Understand Theory of Operation                                                                         -        -        -         -
       and Component Locations
6.7.2 2921 -#3 Hydraulic System TR: 1
       V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.7.2.1 Understand Theory of Operation                                                                         -        -        -         -
       and Component Locations
6.8 30 - ICE AND RAIN PROTECTION
6.8.1 3080 - Ice Protection System
       Detection/Controls TR: 1V-22(C)B-
       2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.8.1.1 Locate and Inspect Components                                                                          -        -        -         -
6.8.1.2 Remove/Install Outside Air                                                                             -        -        -         -
       Temperature Sensor
6.8.1.3 Isolate Ice Protection Control                                                                         -        -        -         -
       System Malfunctions
6.8.1.4 Load OFP                                                                                               -        -        -         -
6.9 31 - INDICATING AND
       RECORDING
6.9.1 3110- Instruments and Control
       Panels
6.9.1.1 3110** - Standby Instruments
       TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.9.1.1.1 Understand Theory of                                                                                 -        -        -         -
       Operation
6.9.1.1.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                               -        -        -         -
6.9.1.1.3 Perform Operational Checkout           *                                                             -        -        -         -
6.9.1.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                           *                                                     -        -        -         -
6.9.1.1.5 Remove/Install Standby                                                                               -        -        -         -
       Attitude Indicator
6.9.1.1.6 Remove/Install Standby Flight                                                                        -        -        -         -
       Display
6.9.1.1.7 Remove/Install Standby                                                                               -        -        -         -
       Airspeed Indicator
6.9.1.1.8 Remove/Install Standby                                                                               -        -        -         -
       Altimeter
6.9.1.1.9 Remove/Install Cockpit Standby                                                                       -        -        -         -
       Compass
6.9.1.1.10 Remove/Install Cabin Standby                                                                        -        -        -         -
       Compass
6.9.1.1.11 Remove/Install Other                                                                                -        -        -         -
       Associated Components
6.9.1.2 3110** - Control Panels TR: 1V-
       22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.9.1.2.1 Understand Theory of                                                                                 -        -        -         -
       Operation
6.9.1.2.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                               -        -        -         -
6.9.1.2.3 Perform Operational Checkout                                                                         -        -        -         -
6.9.1.2.4 Isolate Malfunction                            *                                                     -        -        -         -



                                                                 76
                                     CV-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

6.9.1.2.5 Remove/Install Flight Director                                                                        -       -        -         -
       Panel
6.9.1.2.6 Remove/Install Other                                                                                  -       -        -         -
       Associated Components
6.9.2 3130 - Recording System
6.9.2.1 3131 - Flight Incident Recorder
       TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.9.2.1.1 Understand Theory of                                                                                  -       -        -         -
       Operation
6.9.2.1.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                                -       -        -         -
6.9.2.1.3 Perform Operational Checkout           *                                                              -       -        -         -
6.9.2.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                  -       -        -         -
6.9.2.1.5 Remove/Install Crash                                                                                  -       -        -         -
       Survivable Memory Unit
       (CSMU)
6.9.2.2 3132 - Vibration Structural Life
       and Engine Diagnostic (VSLED)
       TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.9.2.2.1 Understand Theory of                                                                                  -       -        -         -
       Operation
6.9.2.2.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                                -       -        -         -
6.9.2.2.3 Perform Operational Checkout                                                                          -       -        -         -
6.9.2.2.4 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                  -       -        -         -
6.9.2.2.5 Reprogram VSLED Unit                                                                                  -       -        -         -
6.9.2.2.6 Remove/Install VSLED                                                                                  -       -        -         -
       Airborne Unit
6.9.2.2.7 Remove/Install LH/RH                                                                                  -       -        -         -
       Longitudinal Velocity Sensors
6.9.2.2.8 Remove/Install LH/RH Lateral                                                                          -       -        -         -
       Velocity Sensors
6.9.2.2.9 Remove/Install LH/RH Normal                                                                           -       -        -         -
       Velocity Sensors
6.9.2.2.10 Remove/Install LH/RH                                                                                 -       -        -         -
       Driveshaft Vibration Sensors
6.9.2.2.11 Remove/Install Other                                                                                 -       -        -         -
       Associated Components
6.10 34 NAVIGATION SYSTEM
6.10.1 3410 - Flight Environment Data
6.10.1.1 3411 - Radar Altimeter TR: 1V-
       22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.10.1.1.1 Understand Theory of                                                                                 -       -        -         -
       Operation
6.10.1.1.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                               -       -        -         -
6.10.1.1.3 Perform Operational Checkout          *                                                              -       -        -         -
6.10.1.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                      -       -        -         -
6.10.1.1.5 Remove/Install                                                                                       -       -        -         -
       Receiver/Transmitter
6.10.1.1.6 Remove/Install Forward                                                                               -       -        -         -
       Antenna
6.10.1.1.7 Remove/Install Aft Antenna                                                                           -       -        -         -
6.10.1.1.8 Remove/Install Other                                                                                 -       -        -         -
       Associated Components

                                                                 77
                                     CV-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E       A        B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

6.10.2 3420 - Attitude and Direction
6.10.2.1 3420** - Lightweight Inertial
       Navigation System (LWINS) TR:
       1 V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.10.2.1.1 Understand Theory of                                                                                -        -        -         -
       Operation
6.10.2.1.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                              -        -        -         -
6.10.2.1.3 Perform Operational Checkout          *                                                             -        -        -         -
6.10.2.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                     -        -        -         -
6.10.2.1.5 Remove/Install LWINS                                                                                -        -        -         -
6.10.2.1.6 Load OFP                                                                                            -        -        -         -
6.10.2.1.7 Remove/Install Other                                                                                -        -        -         -
       Associated Components
6.10.3 3430 - Landing and Taxiing Aids
6.10.3.1 3431 - Instrument Landing
       System (ILS) TR: 1V-22(C)B-
       2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.10.3.1.1 Understand Theory of                                                                                -       A         -         -
       Operation
6.10.3.1.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                              -        -        -         -
6.10.3.1.3 Perform Operational Checkout                                                                        -        -        -         -
6.10.3.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                -        -        -         -
6.10.3.1.5 Remove/Install ILS Receiver                                                                         -        -        -         -
6.10.3.1.6 Remove/Install Left/Right ILS                                                                       -        -        -         -
       Antenna
6.10.3.1.7 Remove/Install Glideslope                                                                           -        -        -         -
       Antenna
6.10.3.1.8 Remove/Install Marker Beacon                                                                        -        -        -         -
       Antenna
6.10.3.1.9 Remove/Install Other                                                                                -        -        -         -
       Associated Components
6.10.4 3450 - Dependant Positioning
       Determining System
6.10.4.1 3451 -TACAN TR: 1V-22(C)B-
       2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.10.4.1.1 Understand Theory of                                                                                -       A         -         -
       Operation
6.10.4.1.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                              -        -        -         -
6.10.4.1.3 Perform Operational Checkout                                                                        -        -        -         -
6.10.4.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                -        -        -         -
6.10.4.1.5 Remove/Install                                                                                      -        -        -         -
       Receiver/Transmitter
6.10.4.1.6 Remove/Install Upper/Lower                                                                          -        -        -         -
       Antenna
6.10.4.1.7 Remove/Install Other                                                                                -        -        -         -
       Associated Components
6.10.4.2 3452 - Miniature Airborne GPS
       Receiver (MAGR) TR: 1V-
       22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.10.4.2.1 Understand Theory of                                                                                -        -        -         -
       Operation
6.10.4.2.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                              -        -        -         -

                                                                 78
                                     CV-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E       A        B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

6.10.4.2.3 Perform Operational Checkout          *                                                             -        -        -         -
6.10.4.2.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                     -        -        -         -
6.10.4.2.5 Remove/Install Receiver                                                                             -        -        -         -
6.10.4.2.6 Remove/Install Antenna Signal                                                                       -        -        -         -
       Amplifier
6.10.4.2.7 Remove/Install Antenna                                                                              -        -        -         -
6.10.4.2.8 Load OFP                                                                                            -        -        -         -
6.10.4.2.9 Remove/Install Other                                                                                -        -        -         -
       Associated Components
6.10.4.3 3453 -Automatic Direction
       Finder (ADF) TR: 1V-22(C)B-
       2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.10.4.3.1 Understand Theory of                                                                                -        -        -         -
       Operation
6.10.4.3.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                              -        -        -         -
6.10.4.3.3 Perform Operational Checkout                                                                        -        -        -         -
6.10.4.3.4 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                -        -        -         -
6.10.4.3.5 Remove/Install ADF                                                                                  -        -        -         -
       Receiver/Antenna
6.10.4.3.6 Remove/Install Other                                                                                -        -        -         -
       Associated Components
6.10.4.4 3455 - Transponder Set TR: 1V-
       22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.10.4.4.1 Understand Theory of                                                                                -        -        -         -
       Operation
6.10.4.4.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                              -        -        -         -
6.10.4.4.3 Perform Operational Checkout          *                                                             -        -        -         -
6.10.4.4.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                     -        -        -         -
6.10.4.4.5 Remove/Install RT-1471                                                                              -        -        -         -
Receiver/Transmitter
6.10.4.4.6 Remove/Install AT-74 1/B/A                                                                          -        -        -         -
       Upper/Lower Antenna
6.10.4.4.7 Utilize Crypto Code Loading           *                                                             -        -        -         -
       Device
6.10.4.4.8 Remove/Install Other                                                                                -        -        -         -
       Associated Components
6.10.4.4.9 Use Test Equipment                                                                                  -        -        -         -
6.11 42 - AIRCRAFT WIRING
6.11.1 4210 - Integrated Wiring System
       (IWS) Harness TR: 1V-22(C)B-
       2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.11.1.1 Perform Continuity Checks                                                                             -        -        -         -
6.11.1.2 Inspect/Repair                                                                                        -        -        -         -
       Miscellaneous IWS
6.11.1.3 Remove/Install                                                                                        -        -        -         -
       Miscellaneous IWS
6.11.1.4 Isolate IWS Harness                                                                                   -        -        -         -
       Malfunctions
6.11.2 4220 - Conventional Wire Harness
       TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.11.2.1 Perform Continuity Checks                                                                             -        -        -         -



                                                                 79
                                     CV-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E       A        B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

6.11.2.2 Inspect/Repair Conventional                                                                           -        -        -         -
       Wire Harnesses
6.11.2.3 Remove/Install Conventional                                                                           -        -        -         -
       Wire Harnesses
6.11.2.4 Isolate Conventional Wire                                                                             -        -        -         -
       Harness Assembly Malfunctions
6.11.3 4230 - Hybrid Wire Harness TR:
       1 V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.11.3.1 Perform Continuity Checks                                                                             -        -        -         -
6.11.3.2 Inspect/Repair Hybrid Wire                                                                            -        -        -         -
       Harnesses
6.11.3.3 Remove/Install Hybrid Wire                                                                            -        -        -         -
       Harnesses
6.11.3.4 Isolate Hybrid Wire Harness                                                                           -        -        -         -
       Assembly Malfunctions
6.11.4 4250 - Data Bus Wire Harness TR:
1 V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.11.4.1 Understand Theory of Operation                                                                        -        -        -         -
6.11.4.2 Perform Continuity Checks                                                                             -        -        -         -
6.11.4.3 Inspect/Repair Data Bus Wire                                                                          -        -        -         -
       Harnesses
6.11.4.4 Remove/Install Data Bus Wire                                                                          -        -        -         -
       Harnesses
6.11.4.5 Isolate Data Bus Wire Harness                                                                         -        -        -         -
       Assembly Malfunctions
6.11.4.6 Use Test Equipment                                                                                    -        -        -         -
6.11.5 4270 - Wire Integration Assembly
(WIA) TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1
       (IETMS)
6.11.5.1 Perform Continuity Checks                                                                             -        -        -         -
6.11.5.2 Inspect/Repair Wire Integration                                                                       -        -        -         -
       Assemblies
6.11.5.3 Remove/Install Miscellaneous                                                                          -        -        -         -
       WIAs
6.11.5.4 Isolate Wire Integration                                                                              -        -        -         -
       Assembly Malfunctions
6.12 43 - COMMUNICATIONS
6.12.1 4310 - Ultra, Super, and Extra
       High Frequency
6.12.1.1 4310** - VHF/UHF Radios TR:                                                                           -        -        -         -
       1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.12.1.1.1 Understand Theory of                                                                                -        -        -         -
       Operation
6.12.1.1.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                              -        -        -         -
6.12.1.1.3 Perform Operational Checkout          *                                                             -        -        -         -
6.12.1.1.4 Perform Operational                                                                                 -        -        -         -
Checkout, Interference Canceller
       (INCAN)
6.12.1.1.5 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                     -        -        -         -
6.12.1.1.6 Reprogram Radios                      *                                                             -        -        -         -
6.12.1.1.7 Remove/Install Radios                                                                               -        -        -         -
6.12.1.1.8 Remove/Install INCAN                                                                                -        -        -         -

                                                                 80
                                     CV-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E       A        B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

6.12.1.1.9 Remove/Install Upper/Lower                                                                          -        -        -         -
       Antenna Assy.
6.12.1.1.10 Remove/Install Cockpit                                                                             -        -        -         -
       Control Panel
6.12.1.1.11 Remove/Install Other                                                                               -        -        -         -
       Associated Components
6.12.2 4350 - Audio Integrating
6.12.2.1 4351 - Intercom Set TR: 1V-
       22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.12.2.1.1 Understand Theory of                                                                                -        -        -         -
       Operation
6.12.2.1.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                              -        -        -         -
6.12.2.1.3 Perform Operational Checkout                                                                        -        -        -         -
6.12.2.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                -        -        -         -
6.12.2.1.5 Reprogram Communications                                                                            -        -        -         -
       Switching Unit (CSU)
6.12.2.1.6 Remove/Install CSU                                                                                  -        -        -         -
6.12.2.1.7 Remove/Install                                                                                      -        -        -         -
       Intercommunications Set
       Controls
6.12.2.1.8 Remove/Install Other                                                                                -        -        -         -
       Associated Components
6.12.3 4390 - Satellite Communications
6.12.3.1 4390** Digital Burst Message
       Terminal TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1
       (IETMS)
6.12.3.1.1 Understand Theory of                                                                                -        -        -         -
       Operation
6.12.3.1.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                              -        -        -         -
6.12.3.1.3 Perform Operational Checkout                                                                        -        -        -         -
6.12.3.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                -        -        -         -
6.12.3.2 4391 - SATCOM (1/2 Duplex)
       TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.12.3.2.1 Understand Theory of                                                                                -        -        -         -
       Operation
6.12.3.2.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                              -        -        -         -
6.12.3.2.3 Perform Operational Checkout                                                                        -        -        -         -
6.12.3.2.4 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                -        -        -         -
6.12.3.2.5 Remove/Install Diplexer Pre-                                                                        -        -        -         -
       Amp
6.12.3.2.6 Remove/Install High Power                                                                           -        -        -         -
       Amp
6.12.3.2.7 Remove/Install SATCOM                                                                               -        -        -         -
       Antenna
6.12.3.2.8 Remove/Install SATCOM                                                                               -        -        -         -
       Switches
6.12.3.2.9 Remove/Install Other                                                                                -        -        -         -
       Associated Components
6.13 46 - SYSTEM INTEGRATION
       AND DISPLAY
6.13.1 4610 - Acquisition



                                                                 81
                                     CV-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

6.13.1.1 4611 - Mission Computers TR:
       1 V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.13.1.1.1 Understand Theory of                                                                                 -       -        -         -
       Operation
6.13.1.1.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                               -       -        -         -
6.13.1.1.3 Perform Operational Checkout          *                                                              -       -        -         -
6.13.1.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                      -       -        -         -
6.13.1.1.5 Remove/Install Advanced                                                                              -       -        -         -
       Mission Computers
6.13.1.1.6 Reprogram Advanced Mission                                                                           -       -        -         -
       Computers
6.13.1.1.7 Remove/Install Other                                                                                 -       -        -         -
       Associated Components
6.13.1.2 4612 -Mission Data Loader TR:
       1 V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.13.1.2.1 Understand Theory of                                                                                 -       -        -         -
       Operation
6.13.1.2.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                               -       -        -         -
6.13.1.2.3 Perform Operational Checkout          *                                                              -       -        -         -
6.13.1.2.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                      -       -        -         -
6.13.1.2.5 Remove/Install Interface                                                                             -       -        -         -
       Receptacle Unit
6.13.1.2.6 Remove/Install Other                                                                                 -       -        -         -
       Associated Components
6.13.1.2.7 Utilize Program Loader                                                                               -       -        -         -
       Cartridge – Retrieve
       Maint./VSLED Data
6.13.1.2.8 Utilize Aircraft Maintenance                                                                         -       -        -         -
       Event Ground Station (AMEGS)
6.13.1.2.9 Analyze AMEGS Data                                                                                   -       -        -         -
6.13.1.3 4613 - Interface Units (Signal
       Data Converters) TR: 1V-22(C)B-
       2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.13.1.3.1 Understand Theory of                                                                                 -       -        -         -
       Operation
6.13.1.3.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                               -       -        -         -
6.13.1.3.3 Perform Operational Checkout                                                                         -       -        -         -
6.13.1.3.4 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                 -       -        -         -
6.13.1.3.5 Remove/Install Avionics Bay                                                                          -       -        -         -
       Interface Unit (ABIU)
6.13.1.3.6 Remove/Install Wing Interface                                                                        -       -        -         -
       Unit (WIU)
6.13.1.3.7 Remove Install Left/Right                                                                            -       -        -         -
       Nacelle Interface Unit (NIU)
6.13.1.3.8 Load ABIU OFP                                                                                        -       -        -         -
6.13.1.3.9 Load WIU OFP                                                                                         -       -        -         -
6.13.1.3.10 Load NIU OFP                                                                                        -       -        -         -
6.13.1.3.11 Remove/Install Other                                                                                -       -        -         -
       Associated Units
6.13.2 4620 - Processing and Integration
6.13.2.1 4621 - Digital Map TR: 1V-
22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)

                                                                 82
                                     CV-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

6.13.2.1.1 Understand Theory of                                                                                 -       -        -         -
       Operation
6.13.2.1.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                               -       -        -         -
6.13.2.1.3 Perform Operational Checkout          *                                                              -       -        -         -
6.13.2.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                      -       -        -         -
6.13.2.2 Remove/Install Digital Map                                                                             -       -        -         -
       Computer
6.13.2.3 Remove/Install Removable Mass                                                                          -       -        -         -
       Storage Unit (RMSU)
6.13.3 4630 – Display TR: 1V-22(C)B-
       2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.13.3.1 Understand Theory of Operation                                                                         -       -        -         -
6.13.3.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                                 -       -        -         -
6.13.3.3 Perform Display Operational             *                                                              -       -        -         -
       Checkouts (MFD, CDU, RFIS)
6.13.3.4 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                      -       -        -         -
6.13.3.5 Reprogram Display Electronics                                                                          -       -        -         -
       Unit (DEU)
6.13.3.6 Reprogram CDU                                                                                          -       -        -         -
6.13.3.7 Reprogram Keyboard                                                                                     -       -        -         -
6.13.3.8 Remove/Install Multi-Function           *                                                              -       -        -         -
       Displays (MFD)
6.13.3.9 Remove/Install Display                                                                                 -       -        -         -
       Electronics Unit
6.13.3.10 Remove/Install Central Display                                                                        -       -        -         -
       Unit (CDU/EICAS)
6.13.3.11 Remove/Install Keyboard Entry                                                                         -       -        -         -
       Units
6.13.3.12 Remove/Install Remote                                                                                 -       -        -         -
       Frequency Indicators/Selectors
       (RFIS)
6.13.3.13 Remove/Install Other                                                                                  -       -        -         -
       Associated Components
6.13.4 4631 - NVG/Heads Up Display
       (HUD) TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1
       (IETMS)
6.13.4.1 Understand Theory of Operation                                                                         -       -        -         -
6.13.4.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                                 -       -        -         -
6.13.4.3 Perform NVG/HUD Operational                                                                            -       -        -         -
       Checkout
6.13.4.4 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                   -       -        -         -
6.13.4.5 Remove/Install Signal Data                                                                             -       -        -         -
       Converter
6.13.4.6 Remove/Install Converter                                                                               -       -        -         -
       Control Unit
6.13.4.7 Remove/Install Other Associated                                                                        -       -        -         -
       Components
6.14 53 – FUSELAGE TR: 1V-22(C)B-
       2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.14.1 Remove/Install Fuselage Panels                                                                           -       -        -         -
6.14.2 Remove/Install Cabin Floor Panels                                                                        -       -        -         -



                                                                 83
                                     CV-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

6.15 54- NACELLES TR: 1V-22(C)B-
       2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.15.1 Remove/Install Nacelle Structures                                                                        -       -        -         -
       and Panels
6.16 55 – EMPENNAGE TR: 1V-
       22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.16.1 Remove/Install Empennage Panels                                                                          -       -        -         -
6.17 57 - WING/NACELLE
6.17.1 5700 - Wing/Nacelle General TR:
       1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.17.1.1 Remove/Install Wing Panels                                                                             -       -        -         -
6.18 5780 - Wing Stow Control TR: 1V-
       22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.18.1 Understand Theory of Operation                                                                           -       -        -         -
6.18.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                                   -       -        -         -
6.18.3 Locate and Inspect System                                                                                -       -        -         -
       Components
6.18.4 Perform System Operational                                                                               -       -        -         -
       Checkout
6.18.5 Remove/Install Azimuth Switches                                                                          -       -        -         -
6.18.6 Remove/Install Blade Fold Wing                                                                           -       -        -         -
       Stow Control Panel
6.18.7 Isolate Wing Stow Control System                                                                         -       -        -         -
       Malfunctions
6.19 62 - PROPROTOR SYSTEM
6.19.1 622 1/6222 - Hub, Fairing and                                                                            -       -        -         -
       Pendulum Dampener TR:
       1V22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.19.1.1 Remove/Install Proprotor                                                                               -       -        -         -
       Spinner Cover and Panels
6.19.2 6240 - Electrical Proprotor Control                                                                      -       -        -         -
       System Interface
6.19.2.1 Remove/Install LH/RH Slip                                                                              -       -        -         -
       Ring
6.20 63 - DRIVE SYSTEM
6.20.1 6321 thru 6325 Gearboxes
       Assemblies TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1
       (IETMS)
6.20.1.1 Understand Theory of Operation                                                                         -       -        -         -
6.20.1.2 Trace Signal Data Flow                                                                                 -       -        -         -
6.20.1.3 Isolate Gearbox Indicating                                                                             -       -        -         -
       System Malfunctions
6.20.2 6350 – Drive System Interface
       Unit (DSIU)
6.20.2.1 Understand Theory of Operation                                                                         -       -        -         -
6.20.2.2 Trace Signal Data Flow                                                                                 -       -        -         -
6.20.2.3 Perform Operational Check                                                                              -       -        -         -
6.20.2.4 Load OFP                                                                                               -       -        -         -
6.20.2.5 Remove/Install DSIU                                                                                    -       -        -         -
6.21 66 - BLADE FOLD



                                                                 84
                                     CV-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

6.21.1 6630 - Blade Fold Control System
       (BFCS) TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1
       (IETMS)
6.21.1.1 Understand Theory of Operation                                                                         -       -        -         -
6.21.1.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                                 -       -        -         -
6.21.1.3 Locate and Inspect System                                                                              -       -        -         -
       Components
6.21.1.4 Isolate Blade Fold Malfunctions                                                                        -       -        -         -
6.22 79 - ENGINE OIL
6.22.1 7930 - Engine Oil Indicating
       System TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1
       (IETMS)
6.22.1.1 Understand Theory of Operation                                                                         -       -        -         -
6.22.1.2 Trace Signal Data Flow                                                                                 -       -        -         -
6.22.1.3 Isolate Engine Oil Indication                                                                          -       -        -         -
       System Malfunction
6.23 93 - SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM
6.23.1 9350 - Infrared Sensors
6.23.1.1 9351 - Forward Looking
       Infrared (FLIR) TR: 1V-22(C)B-
       2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.23.1.1.1 Understand Theory of                                                                                 -       -        -         -
       Operation
6.23.1.1.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                               -       -        -         -
6.23.1.1.3 Perform Operational Checkout          *                                                              -       -        -         -
6.23.1.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                      -       -        -         -
6.23.1.1.5 Remove/Install System                                                                                -       -        -         -
       Electronics Unit
6.23.1.1.6 Remove/Install Turret FLIR                                                                           -       -        -         -
       Unit
6.23.1.1.7 Remove/Install Tracking                                                                              -       -        -         -
       Handle
6.23.1.1.8 Remove/Install Other                                                                                 -       -        -         -
       Associated Components
6.23.1.1.9 Load OFP                                                                                             -       -        -         -
6.23.2 9371 - Multi-Mode Radar TR:
1 V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.23.2.1 Understand Theory of Operation                                                                         -       -        -         -
6.23.2.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                                 -       -        -         -
6.23.2.3 Perform Operational Checkout            *                                                              -       -        -         -
6.23.2.4 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                      -       -        -         -
6.23.2.5 Remove/Install Radar Pod                                                                               -       -        -         -
Assembly and Components
6.23.2.6 Remove/Install Radar Interface                                                                         -       -        -         -
       Unit (RIU)
6.23.2.7 Remove/Install Radar                                                                                   -       -        -         -
       Pressurization Unit
6.23.2.8 Alignment Confidence Check                                                                             -       -        -         -
6.23.2.9 Load OFP                                                                                               -       -        -         -
6.23.2.10 Service Radar Pressurization                                                                          -       -        -         -
       Unit


                                                                 85
                                     CV-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E       A        B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

6.23.2.11 Remove/Install Other                                                                                 -        -        -         -
       Associated Components
6.24 99 - TACTICAL ELECTRONIC
       WARFARE SYSTEM
6.24.1 9910 - Suite of Integrated Radio
       Freq. Countermeasures (SIRFC)
       TR: 1 V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.24.1.1 Understand Theory of Operation                                                                        -       A         -         -
6.24.1.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                                -       -         -         -
6.24.1.3 Perform Operational Checkout            *                                                             -       -         -         -
6.24.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                     -       -         -         -
6.24.1.5 Remove/Install Receiver                                                                               -       -         -         -
       Processor (LRU-1)
6.24.1.6 Remove/Install High Power               *                                                             -        -        -         -
       Remote Transmitters (LRU-2)
6.24.1.7 Remove/Install Modular                  *                                                             -        -        -         -
       Receiver (LRU-3)
6.24.1.8 Remove/Install Receiver                                                                               -        -        -         -
       Amplifier-Converters (LRU-4)
6.24.1.9 Remove/Install RF Switch                                                                              -        -        -         -
6.24.1.10 Remove/Install Receive                                                                               -        -        -         -
       Antennas
6.24.1.11 Use Test Equipment                                                                                   -        -        -         -
6.24.1.12 Remove/Install Transmit                                                                              -        -        -         -
       Antenna
6.24.1.13 Remove/Install Blade Antenna                                                                         -        -        -         -
6.24.1.14 Remove/Install Other                                                                                 -        -        -         -
       Associated Components
6.24.2 9913 – Directed Infared
       Countermeasure System (DIRCM)
       TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.24.2.1 Understand Theory of Operation                                                                        -       A         -         -
6.24.2.2 Trace Signal Data Flow                                                                                -       -         -         -
6.24.2.3 Perform Operational Check               *                                                             -       -         -         -
6.24.2.4 Isolate Malfunction                             *                                                     -       -         -         -
6.24.2.5 Remove/Install Transmitter                                                                            -       -         -         -
       Assembly
6.24.2.6 Remove/Install Cockpit                                                                                -        -        -         -
       Interface Unit
6.24.2.7 Remove/Install Missle Warning                                                                         -        -        -         -
       Sensors
6.24.2.8 Use Test Equipment                                                                                    -        -        -         -
6.24.3 9930 - Passive Tactical Electronic
       Warfare System
6.24.3.1 9931 - Chaff/Flare Dispensing
       System TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1
       (IETMS)
6.24.3.1.1 Understand Theory of                                                                                -        -        -         -
       Operation
6.24.3.1.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                              -        -        -         -
6.24.3.1.3 Perform Operational Checkout          *                                                             -        -        -         -
6.24.3.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                     -        -        -         -

                                                                 86
                                     CV-22 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

6.24.3.1.5 Load Programmer OFP                                                                                  -       -        -         -
6.24.3.1.6 Remove/Install Cockpit                                                                               -       -        -         -
       Control Unit (CCU)
6.24.3.1.7 Remove/Install Programmer                                                                            -       -        -         -
6.24.3.1.8 Remove/Install Sequencer                                                                             -       -        -         -
       Switches
6.24.3.1.9 Remove/Install Chaff/Flare                                                                           -       -        -         -
       Dispensers
6.24.3.1.10 Remove/Install Safety Switch                                                                        -       -        -         -
6.24.3.1.11 Remove/Install Other                                                                                -       -        -         -
       Associated Components
6.24.4 9950 - Multi-Mission Advanced
       Tactical Terminal System (MATT)
       TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.24.4.1 Understand Theory of Operation                                                                         -       -        -         -
6.24.4.2 Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                                 -       -        -         -
6.24.4.3 Perform Operational Checkout                                                                           -       -        -         -
6.24.4.4 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                   -       -        -         -
6.24.4.5 Reprogram MATT Receiver                                                                                -       -        -         -
6.24.4.6 Remove/Install MATT Receiver                                                                           -       -        -         -
6.24.4.7 Remove/Install MATT Antenna                                                                            -       -        -         -
6.24.4.8 Remove/Install Other Associated                                                                        -       -        -         -
       Components
6.24.5 9952 – Dedicated Electronic
       Warfare Display (DEWD) TR: 1V-
       22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
6.24.5.1 Understand Theory of Operation                                                                         -       -        -         -
6.24.5.2 Trace Signal Data Flow                                                                                 -       -        -         -
6.24.5.3 Isolate Malfunction                                                                                    -       -        -         -
6.24.5.4 Remove/Install DEWD                                                                                    -       -        -         -




                                                                 87
                                            MQ-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                  Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                        A      B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                          7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                   3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                             Skill
                                                                                                                    Level
                                                     5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                       Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC
NOTE1:   The apprentice course will use representative aircraft/trainers to accomplish the system specific training requirements as
         identified by the STS. The common section of the CFETP is used to code core competencies of the career field that
         will be taught in the apprentice course. The MDS specific attachments are to be used in conjunction with the
         common section to identify requirements and annotate qualifications.

NOTE2:   All task/knowledge taught in the initial skills courses will be taught in the wartime initial skills courses.

NOTE3:   Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.

NOTE4:    Core Tasks are identified by an asterisk (*) in the appropriate column.
NOTE 5: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Manager to the AETC Training
         Manager, DSN: 736-7908
7.1 AIRCRAFT GENERAL TR: 1-MQ-1
       A/B-2 series TOs
7.1.1 Perform aircraft pack up procedure                                                                              -       -        -         -
7.1.2 Perform Aircraft Set Up Procedures                                                                              -       -        -         -
7.1.3 Perform Ground Handling
7.1.3.1 Pre-Flight inspection                                                                                         -       -        -         -
7.1.3.2 Post-Flight inspection                                                                                        -       -        -         -
7.1.3.3 Through-Flight inspection                                                                                     -       -        -         -
7.1.3.4 Service Oil                                                                                                   -       -        -         -
7.1.3.5 Service Coolant                                                                                               -       -        -         -
7.1.3.6 Tire Servicing                                                                                                -       -        -         -
7.1.3.7 Tow aircraft:
7.1.3.7.1 Push aircraft                                                                                               -       -        -         -
7.1.3.7.2 Steer aircraft                                                                                              -       -        -         -
7.1.3.8 Remove
7.1.3.8.1 Aircraft Panel                                                                                              -       -        -         -
7.1.3.8.2 Hour Meter                                                                                                  -       -        -         -
7.1.3.9 Install
7.1.3.9.1 Aircraft Panel                                                                                              -       -        -         -
7.1.3.9.2 Hour Meter                                                                                                  -       -        -         -
7.1.3.10 Perform Direct Connect Datalink                                                                              -       -        -         -
       Test
7.1.3.11 Perform Aircraft Power Up and                                                                                -       -        -         -
       Power Down Procedures
7.2 LANDING GEAR SYSTEM TR:
       1Q-1(R/M) A/B-2 series TOs
7.2.1 System Description                                                                                              -       -        -         -
7.2.2 System Operation                                                                                                -       -        -         -
7.2.3 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                            -       -        -         -
7.2.4 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                           -       -        -         -
7.2.5 Perform rigging                                                                                                 -       -        -         -
7.2.6 Perform operational checks                                                                                      -       -        -         -
7.2.7 Use test equipment                                                                                              -       -        -         -
7.3 BRAKE SYSTEM TR: 1Q-1(R/M)
       A/B-2 series TOs
7.3.1 System Description                                                                                              -       -        -         -
7.3.2 System Operation                                                                                                -       -        -         -
7.3.3 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                            -       -        -         -
7.3.4 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                           -       -        -         -
7.3.5 Perform rigging                                                                                                 -       -        -         -
7.3.6 Perform operational checks                                                                                      -       -        -         -


                                                                       88
                                     MQ-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

7.4 AIRCRAFT FUEL SYSTEM TR:
       1Q-1(R/M) A/B-2 series TOs
7.4.1 System Description                                                                                        -       -        -         -
7.4.2 System Operation                                                                                          -       -        -         -
7.4.3 System Theory                                                                                             -       -        -         -
7.4.4 Perform Operational Check
7.4.4.1 Fuel Level Sensor Test                                                                                  -       -        -         -
7.4.4.2 Fuel Pressure Regulator Test                                                                            -       -        -         -
7.4.5 Perform Fuel Calibration                   *                                                              -       -        -         -
       Procedures
7.4.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                      -       -        -         -
7.4.7 Remove Fuel System LRU(s)
7.4.7.1 Level Sensors                                                                                           -       -        -         -
7.4.7.2 Pressure Sensor                                                                                         -       -        -         -
7.4.7.3 Pressure Regulator                                                                                      -       -        -         -
7.4.7.4 Feed Tray                                                                                               -       -        -         -
7.4.7.5 Return Tray                                                                                             -       -        -         -
7.4.7.6 Pump                                                                                                    -       -        -         -
7.4.8 Install Fuel System LRU(s)
7.4.8.1 Level Sensors                                                                                           -       -        -         -
7.4.8.2 Pressure Sensor                                                                                         -       -        -         -
7.4.8.3 Pressure Regulator                                                                                      -       -        -         -
7.4.8.4 Feed Tray                                                                                               -       -        -         -
7.4.8.5 Return Tray                                                                                             -       -        -         -
7.4.8.6 Pump                                                                                                    -       -        -         -
7.5 ENGINE IGNITION SYSTEM TR:
       1Q-1(R/M) A/B-2 series TOs
7.5.1 System Description                                                                                        -       -        -         -
7.5.2 System Operation                                                                                          -       -        -         -
7.5.3 System Theory                                                                                             -       -        -         -
7.5.4 Perform Operational Check                                                                                 -       -        -         -
7.5.5 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                      -       -        -         -
7.5.6 Remove Ignition System LRU(s)
7.5.6.1 Module and Harness Assembly                                                                             -       -        -         -
7.5.6.2 Relay Box                                                                                               -       -        -         -
7.5.6.3 Kill Switch                                                                                             -       -        -         -
7.5.7 Install Ignition System LRU(s)
7.5.7.1 Module and Harness Assembly                                                                             -       -        -         -
7.5.7.2 Relay Box                                                                                               -       -        -         -
7.5.7.3 Kill Switch                                                                                             -       -        -         -
7.6 ENGINE SYSTEM
       MAINTENANCE TR: 1Q
       1(R/M) A/B-2 series TOs
7.6.1 System Description                                                                                        -       -        -         -
7.6.2 System Operation                                                                                          -       -        -         -
7.6.3 System Theory                                                                                             -       -        -         -
7.6.4 Perform Engine Run                                                                                        -       -        -         -
7.6.5 Remove System LRU(s)
7.6.5.1 Engine                                                                                                  -       -        -         -
7.6.5.2 Carburetors                                                                                             -       -        -         -
7.6.5.3 Fuel Injection Nozzle                                                                                   -       -        -         -

                                                                 89
                                      MQ-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

7.6.6 Install System LRU(s)
7.6.6.1 Engine                                                                                                  -       -        -         -
7.6.6.2 Carburetors                                                                                             -       -        -         -
7.6.6.3 Fuel Injection Nozzle                                                                                   -       -        -         -
7.6.7 Perform Inspections
7.6.7.1 50 hour inspection                                                                                      -       -        -         -
7.6.7.2 150 hour inspection                                                                                     -       -        -         -
7.6.7.3 300 hour inspection                                                                                     -       -        -         -
7.6.8 Perform Concentricity/                                                                                    -       -        -         -
       Perpendicularity
7.7 ENGINE LUBRICATION SYSTEM
       TR: 1Q-1(R/M) A/B-2 series TOs
7.7.1 System Description                                                                                        -       -        -         -
7.7.2 System Operation                                                                                          -       -        -         -
7.7.3 System Theory                                                                                             -       -        -         -
7.7.4 Perform operational checks                                                                                -       -        -         -
7.7.5 Remove System LRU(s)                                                                                      -       -        -         -
7.7.6 Install System LRU(s)                                                                                     -       -        -         -
7.8 ENGINE SENSORS TR: 1Q-1(R/M)
       A/B-2 series TOs
7.8.1 System Description                                                                                        -       -        -         -
7.8.2 System Operation                                                                                          -       -        -         -
7.8.3 System Theory                                                                                             -       -        -         -
7.8.4 Remove engine sensors                                                                                     -       -        -         -
7.8.5 Install engine sensors                                                                                    -       -        -         -
7.9 VARIABLE PITCH PROPELLER
       SYSTEM TR: 1Q-1(R/M) A/B-
       2 series TOs
7.9.1 System Description                                                                                        -       -        -         -
7.9.2 System Operation                                                                                          -       -        -         -
7.9.3 System Theory                                                                                             -       -        -         -
7.9.4 Remove LRUs                                                                                               -       -        -         -
7.9.5 Install LRUs                                                                                              -       -        -         -
7.9.6 Perform rigging                                                                                           -       -        -         -
7.9.7 Perform Adjustment                                                                                        -       -        -         -
7.10 ELECTRICAL POWER AND
       DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM TR:
       1Q1(R/M) A/B-2 series TOs
7.10.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
7.10.2 System Operation                                                                                         -       -        -         -
7.10.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       -        -         -
7.10.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                       -       -        -         -
7.10.5 Perform Operational Check
7.10.5.1 Ground Power                                                                                           -       -        -         -
7.10.5.2 Battery Power                                                                                          -       -        -         -
7.10.5.3 PPDM                                                                                                   -       -        -         -
7.10.5.4 System Temperature                                                                                     -       -        -         -
7.10.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -       -        -         -
7.10.7 Remove System LRU(s)
7.10.7.1 Power Supply                                                                                           -       -        -         -
7.10.7.2 Battery                                 *                                                              -       -        -         -


                                                                 90
                                      MQ-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

7.10.7.3 Alternator Terminal Block                                                                              -       -        -         -
7.10.7.4 Current Sense Module                                                                                   -       -        -         -
7.10.7.5 Monitor Board                                                                                          -       -        -         -
7.10.8 Install System LRU(s)
7.10.8.1 Power Supply                                                                                           -       -        -         -
7.10.8.2 Battery                                 *                                                              -       -        -         -
7.10.8.3 Alternator Terminal Block                                                                              -       -        -         -
7.10.8.4 Current Sense Module                                                                                   -       -        -         -
7.10.8.5 Monitor Board                                                                                          -       -        -         -
7.10.9 Perform aircraft battery                                                                                 -       -        -         -
       reconditioning
7.11 AIRCRAFT DIGITAL CONTROL
       SYSTEM TR: 1Q-1(R/M) A/B-2
       series TOs
7.11.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
7.11.2 System Operation                                                                                         -       -        -         -
7.11.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       -        -         -
7.11.4 Perform Operational checkout              *                                                              -       -        -         -
7.11.5 Isolate malfunctions                              *                                                      -       -        -         -
7.11.6 Remove System LRU(s)
7.11.6.1 Primary Control Module (PCM)                                                                           -       -        -         -
7.11.6.2 Secondary Control Module                                                                               -       -        -         -
       (SCM)
7.11.6.3 Network Junction Board                                                                                 -       -        -         -
7.11.6.4 Wing Control Modules                                                                                   -       -        -         -
7.11.6.5 PCM Cooling Fan                                                                                        -       -        -         -
7.11.7 Install System LRU(s)
7.11.7.1 Primary Control Module (PCM)                                                                           -       -        -         -
7.11.7.2 Secondary Control Module                                                                               -       -        -         -
       (SCM)
7.11.7.3 Network Junction Board                                                                                 -       -        -         -
7.11.7.4 Wing Control Modules                                                                                   -       -        -         -
7.11.7.5 PCM Cooling Fan                                                                                        -       -        -         -
7.12 AN/ARC-210 RADIO TR: 1Q-
       1(R/M) A/B-2 series TOs
7.12.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
7.12.2 System Operation                                                                                         -       -        -         -
7.12.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       -        -         -
7.12.4 Perform Operational checks                                                                               -       -        -         -
7.12.5 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                     -       -        -         -
7.12.6 Remove LRU(s)                                                                                            -       -        -         -
7.12.7 Install LRU(s)                                                                                           -       -        -         -
7.13 AN/APX-100 IDENTIFICATION
       FRIEND OR FOE (IFF)
       SYSTEM TR: Applicable
       MQ/RQ-2 series TOs
7.13.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
7.13.2 System Operation                                                                                         -       -        -         -
7.13.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       -        -         -
7.13.4 Perform Operational checks                                                                               -       -        -         -
7.13.5 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -       -        -         -
7.13.6 Use test equipment                                                                                       -       -        -         -
                                                                 91
                                     MQ-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                           2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                              Indicate Training/Information
                                           Task                                                            Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

7.13.7 Load Encryption Codes                                                                                    -       -        -         -
7.13.8 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                     -       -        -         -
7.13.9 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                    -       -        -         -
7.13.10 Perform Mode 4 check                                                                                    -       -        -         -
7.14 C-BAND AIRBORNE DATALINK
TR: 1Q-1(R/M) A/B-2 series TOs
7.14.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
7.14.2 System Operation                                                                                         -       -        -         -
7.14.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       -        -         -
7.14.4 Perform Operational Check
7.14.4.1 C-Band Ground Data Terminal                                                                            -       -        -         -
7.14.4.2 Directional Antenna Control                                                                            -       -        -         -
7.14.5 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -       -        -         -
7.14.6 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                     -       -        -         -
7.14.7 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                    -       -        -         -
7.15 KU-BAND SATCOM DATALINK
       TR: 1Q-1(R/M) A/B-2 series TOs
7.15.1 System Description                                                                                       -      A         -         -
7.15.2 System Operation                                                                                         -      -         -         -
7.15.3 System Theory                                                                                            -      -         -         -
7.15.4 Perform Operational Check                 *                                                              -      -         -         -
7.15.5 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -      -         -         -
7.15.6 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                     -      -         -         -
7.15.7 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                    -      -         -         -
7.16 SYNTHETIC APERTURE RADAR
       SYSTEM (SAR) TR: 1Q-1(R/M)
       A/B-2 series TOs
7.16.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
7.16.2 System Operation                                                                                         -       -        -         -
7.16.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       -        -         -
7.16.4 Perform Operational Checkout                                                                             -       -        -         -
7.16.5 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                     -       -        -         -
7.16.6 Remove system LRU(s)                                                                                     -       -        -         -
7.16.7 Install system LRU(s)                                                                                    -       -        -         -
7.17 NAVIGATION GUIDANCE &
       CONTROL SYSTEMS TR:
       1Q1(R/M) A/B-2 series TOs
7.17.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
7.17.2 System Operation                                                                                         -       -        -         -
7.17.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       -        -         -
7.17.4 Perform Operational Checkouts
7.17.4.1 Primary AOA                             *                                                              -       -        -         -
7.17.4.2 Airspeed and Altitude                   *                                                              -       -        -         -
7.17.4.3 Pitot and Static Heater                 *                                                              -       -        -         -
7.17.4.4 Heading Indication                      *                                                              -       -        -         -
7.17.4.5 INS/GPS Primary Function                *                                                              -       -        -         -
7.17.4.6 Secondary GPS Function                  *                                                              -       -        -         -
7.17.4.7 Yaw Rate Gyroscope                      *                                                              -       -        -         -
7.17.4.8 Accelerometer                           *                                                              -       -        -         -
7.17.4.9 INS/GPS Heading                         *                                                              -       -        -         -
7.17.4.10 INS/GPS Yaw Rate                       *                                                              -       -        -         -

                                                         92
                                     MQ-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                           2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                              Indicate Training/Information
                                           Task                                                            Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

7.17.4.11 Outside Air Temperature                *                                                              -       -        -         -
       (OAT) Sensor
7.17.4.12 Use test equipment                                                                                    -       -        -         -
7.17.5 Perform AOA Sensor Adjustment                                                                            -       -        -         -
7.17.6 Remove System LRU(s)                                                                                     -       -        -         -
7.17.7 Install System LRU(s)                                                                                    -       -        -         -
7.18 FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEM TR:
       1Q-1(R/M) A/B-2 series TOs
7.18.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
7.18.2 System Operation                                                                                         -       -        -         -
7.18.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       -        -         -
7.18.4 Perform Operational Checkout              *                                                              -       -        -         -
7.18.5 Isolate malfunctions                              *                                                      -       -        -         -
7.18.6 Perform Servo Rig Adjustments             *                                                              -       -        -         -
7.18.7 Remove system LRU(s)
7.18.7.1 Wing                                                                                                   -       -        -         -
7.18.7.2 Other LRU(s)                                                                                           -       -        -         -
7.18.8 Install system LRU(s)
7.18.8.1 Wing                                                                                                   -       -        -         -
7.18.8.2 Other LRU(s)                                                                                           -       -        -         -
7.19 AIRCRAFT LIGHTING SYSTEM
       TR: 1Q-1(R/M) A/B-2 series TOs
7.19.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
7.19.2 System Operation                                                                                         -       -        -         -
7.19.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       -        -         -
7.19.4 Perform Operational Checks                *                                                              -       -        -         -
7.19.5 Isolate malfunctions.                             *                                                      -       -        -         -
7.19.6 Remove system LRUs                                                                                       -       -        -         -
7.19.7 Install system LRUs                                                                                      -       -        -         -
7.20 EO/IR RECONNAISSANCE
       PAYLOAD SYSTEM TR: 1Q-
       1(R/M) A/B-2
7.20.1 System Descr2iption                                                                                      -      A         -         -
7.20.2 System Operation                                                                                         -      -         -         -
7.20.3 System Theory                                                                                            -      -         -         -
7.20.4 Perform Operational Checkout              *                                                              -      -         -         -
7.20.5 Isolate malfunctions                              *                                                      -      -         -         -
7.20.6 Remove system LRU(s)
7.20.6.1 EO/IR Payload                                                                                          -       -        -         -
7.20.6.2 EO/IR Payload ECU                                                                                      -       -        -         -
7.20.7 Install system LRU(s)
7.20.7.1 EO/IR Payload                                                                                          -       -        -         -
7.20.7.2 EO/IR Payload ECU                                                                                      -       -        -         -
7.21 VIDEO DATA SYSTEM TR: 1Q-
       1(R/M) A/B-2 series TOs
7.21.1 System Description                                                                                       -       -        -         -
7.21.2 System Operation                                                                                         -       -        -         -
7.21.3 System Theory                                                                                            -       -        -         -
7.21.4 Perform Operational Checks
7.21.4.1 Nose Camera Lens Heater                 *                                                              -       -        -         -
7.21.4.2 Nose/Chin Camera                                                                                       -       -        -         -

                                                         93
                                     MQ-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E       A        B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

7.21.5 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                    -        -        -         -
7.21.6 Remove System LRU(s)                                                                                    -        -        -         -
7.21.7 Install System LRU(s)                                                                                   -        -        -         -
7.22 PREDATOR SUPPORT
       EQUIPMENT
7.22.1 Starter/Power Cart
7.22.1.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                            -        -        -         -
7.22.1.2 Operate                                                                                               -        -        -         -
7.22.2 Refuel/Defuel Cart
7.22.2.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                            -        -        -         -
7.22.2.2 Operate                                                                                               -        -        -         -
7.22.3 Casp 2000 Battery Charger
7.22.3.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                            -        -        -         -
7.22.3.2 Operate                                                                                               -        -        -         -
7.22.4 Hoist
7.22.4.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                            -        -        -         -
7.22.4.2 Operate                                                                                               -        -        -         -
7.22.5 Single Bay Station
7.22.5.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                            -        -        -         -
7.22.5.2 Operate                                                                                               -        -        -         -




                                                         94
                                            RQ-4 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                   2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                            Indicate Training/Information
                                                   Task                                                          Provided (See Note)

                                                        A      B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                          7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                   3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                             Skill
                                                                                                                    Level
                                                     5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                       Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC
NOTE1:   The apprentice course will use representative aircraft/trainers to accomplish the system specific training requirements as
         identified by the STS. The common section of the CFETP is used to code core competencies of the career field that
         will be taught in the apprentice course. The MDS specific attachments are to be used in conjunction with the
         common section to identify requirements and annotate qualifications.

NOTE2:   All task/knowledge taught in the initial skills courses will be taught in the wartime initial skills courses.

NOTE3:   Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.

NOTE4:    Core Tasks are identified by an asterisk (*) in the appropriate column.

NOTE 5: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Manager to the AETC Training
         Manager, DSN: 736-7908
NOTE 6: RQ-4 3 skill level resident training will be taught in the J3ABR2A332A 026A course.
8.1 AIRCRAFT GENERAL
8.1.1 Perform Ground Handling
8.1.1.1 Launch aircraft (VTC operator)                                                                                -       -        -         -
8.1.1.2 Recover aircraft (supervisor)                   *                                                             -       -        -         -
8.1.2. Power On/Off Aircraft                                                                                          -       -        -         -
8.1.2.1 Internal Launch                                 *                                                             -       -        -         -
8.1.2.2 External Launch Test                            *                                                             -       -        -         -
8.1.2.3 Electrical Preflight                            *                                                             -       -        -         -
8.1.3 Airframe Components
8.1.3.1 Nacelles
8.1.3.1.1 Remove/Install Fwd Nacelle                                                                                  -       -        -         -
8.1.3.1.2 Remove/Install Mid Nacelle                                                                                  -       -        -         -
8.1.3.1.3 Remove/Install Aft Nacelle                                                                                  -       -        -         -
8.1.3.2 Radomes
8.1.3.2.1 Remove/Install Synthetic                                                                                    -       -        -         -
        Aperture Radar (SAR) Radome
8.1.3.2.2 Remove/Install KU Band                                                                                      -       -        -         -
        Satellite Communications
        (SatCom) Radome
8.1.3.2.3 Remove/Install Common Data                                                                                  -       -        -         -
        Link (CDL)/Line of Sight (LOS)
        Radome
8.1.3.3 Flight Control Surfaces
8.1.3.3.1 Ruddervator Rigging                                  *                                                      -       -        -         -
8.1.3.3.2 Aileron Rigging                                      *                                                      -       -        -         -
8.1.3.3.3 Spoiler Rigging                                      *                                                      -       -        -         -
8.1.3.3.4 Emergency/Divert Kit                                                                                        -       -        -         -
8.1.3.3.5 Remove/Install Fly-Away Kit                                                                                 -       -        -         -
8.1.4 Aircraft Support Equipment
8.1.4.1 1553 Bus Analyzer
8.1.4.1.1 Perform Pre-Use Inspection                                                                                  -       -        -         -
8.1.4.1.2 Operate                                                                                                     -       -        -         -
8.1.4.2 Radio Altimeter Test Set
8.1.4.2.1 Perform Pre-Use Inspection                                                                                  -       -        -         -
8.1.4.2.2 Operate                                                                                                     -       -        -         -
8.1.4.3 Vehicle Test Controller
8.1.4.3.1 Perform Pre-Use Inspection                    *                                                             -       -        -         -
8.1.4.3.2 Operate                                       *                                                             -       -        -         -
8.1.4.3.3 Load and Configure Software                                                                                 -       -        -         -


                                                                95
                                     RQ-4 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

8.1.4.4 IFF Test Set
8.1.4.4.1 Perform Pre-Use Inspection                                                                            -       -        -         -
8.1.4.4.2 Operate                                                                                               -       -        -         -
8.1.4.5 LRU Fuel Purge Kit
8.1.4.5.1 Perform Pre-Use Inspection                                                                            -       -        -         -
8.1.4.5.2 Operate                                                                                               -       -        -         -
8.1.4.6 Portable Control Device (PCD)
8.1.4.6.1 Perform Pre-Use Inspection                                                                            -       -        -         -
8.1.4.6.2 Operate                                                                                               -       -        -         -
8.1.4.6.3 Load and Configure Software                                                                           -       -        -         -
8.1.4.7 Communication Automatic Test
       Equipment (CATE) Cart
8.1.4.7.1 Perform Pre-Use Inspection                                                                            -       -        -         -
8.1.4.7.2 Operate                                                                                               -       -        -         -
8.1.4.7.3 Load and Configure Software                                                                           -       -        -         -
8.1.4.8 Flightline Maintenance (O) Cart
8.1.4.8.1 Perform Pre-Use Inspection                                                                            -       -        -         -
8.1.4.8.2 Operate                                                                                               -       -        -         -
8.1.4.8.3 Load and Configure Software                                                                           -       -        -         -
8.1.4.9 Aircraft Tie-down (holdback
       Assembly)
8.1.4.9.1 Perform Pre-Use Inspection                                                                            -       -        -         -
8.1.4.9.2 Install/Remove                                                                                        -       -        -         -
8.1.4.10 Engine Bellmouth Assembly
8.1.4.10.1 Perform Pre-Use Inspection                                                                           -       -        -         -
8.1.4.10.2 Install/Remove                                                                                       -       -        -         -
8.1.4.11 Outrigger
8.1.4.11.1 Perform Pre-Use Inspection                                                                           -       -        -         -
8.1.4.11.2 Install/Remove                                                                                       -       -        -         -
8.1.4.12 Wing Supports
8.1.4.12.1 Perform Pre-Use Inspection                                                                           -       -        -         -
8.1.4.12.2 Install/Remove                                                                                       -       -        -         -
8.1.4.13 Jack Table, Presto Lift
8.1.4.13.1 Perform Pre-Use Inspection                                                                           -       -        -         -
8.1.4.13.2 Operate                                                                                              -       -        -         -
8.1.4.14 ISS Handling Fixtures
8.1.4.14.1 Perform Pre-Use Inspection                                                                           -       -        -         -
8.1.4.14.2 Operate                                                                                              -       -        -         -
8.1.5 Maintenance Fundamentals
8.1.5.1 Mission Control Element
8.1.5.1.1 System Description                                                                                    -       -        -         -
8.1.5.1.2 System Operation                                                                                      -       -        -         -
8.1.5.1.3 System Theory                                                                                         -       -        -         -
8.1.5.2 Launch Recovery Element
8.1.5.2.1 System Description                                                                                    -       -        -         -
8.1.5.2.2 System Operation                                                                                      -       -        -         -
8.1.5.2.3 System Theory                                                                                         -       -        -         -
8.2 PRIINCIPLES OF AVIONICS
8.2.1 Tactical Communication
8.2.1.1 Line of Sight                                                                                           -       -        -         -
8.2.1.2 Beyond Line of Sight                                                                                    -       -        -         -

                                                         96
                                      RQ-4 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

8.2.1.3 Synthetic Aperture Radar                                                                                -       -        -         -
8.2.1.4 Electro Optical/Infrared                                                                                -       -        -         -
8.2.2 FLIGHT CONTROLS
8.2.2.1 System Description                                                                                      -       -        -         -
8.2.2.2 System Operation                                                                                        -       -        -         -
8.2.2.3 System Theory                                                                                           -       -        -         -
8.2.2.4 Perform Operational Checkout
8.2.2.4.1 Aileron                                                                                               -       -        -         -
8.2.2.4.2 Ruddervator                                                                                           -       -        -         -
8.2.2.4.3 Spoiler                                                                                               -       -        -         -
8.2.2.4.4 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                  -       -        -         -
8.2.2.5 Remove/Install System LRUs
8.2.2.5.1 Aileron Actuator                                                                                      -       -        -         -
8.2.2.5.2 Ruddervator Actuator                                                                                  -       -        -         -
8.2.2.5.3 Spoiler Actuator                                                                                      -       -        -         -
8.2.3 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL
       SYSTEM
8.2.3.1 System Description                                                                                      -       -        -         -
8.2.3.2 System Operation                                                                                        -       -        -         -
8.2.3.3 System Theory                                                                                           -       -        -         -
8.2.3.4 Remove/Install System LRUs
8.2.3.4.1 SAR Waveguide Air Desiccant                                                                           -       -        -         -
       Cartridge
8.2.3.4.2 SAR Waveguide Pump A/B                                                                                -       -        -         -
8.2.3.4.3 ERU Air Desiccant Cartridge                                                                           -       -        -         -
8.2.3.4.4 SAR Waveguide Pressure                                                                                -       -        -         -
8.2.3.4.5 SAR Waveguide Relay                                                                                   -       -        -         -
8.2.3.4.6 SAR Waveguide Bypass Valve                                                                            -       -        -         -
8.2.3.4.7 Service KU Waveguide
                                                                                                                -       -        -         -
       Nitrogen Bottle
8.2.4 ELECTRICAL POWER
       GENERATION
8.2.4.1 System Description                                                                                      -       -        -         -
8.2.4.2 System Operation                                                                                        -       -        -         -
8.2.4.3 System Theory                                                                                           -       -        -         -
8.2.4.4 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                    -       -        -         -
8.2.4.5 Remove/Install System LRUs
8.2.4.5.1 Power and Discrete Controller,                                                                        -       -        -         -
       Forward (FPDC)
8.2.4.5.2 Power and Discrete Controller,                                                                        -       -        -         -
       Aft (APDC)
8.2.4.5.3 Ground Control Panel                                                                                  -       -        -         -
8.2.5 FUEL SYSTEM INDICATION
8.2.5.1 System Description                                                                                      -       -        -         -
8.2.5.2 System Operation                                                                                        -       -        -         -
8.2.5.3 System Theory                                                                                           -       -        -         -
8.2.5.4 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                    -       -        -         -
8.2.5.5 Remove/Install Fuel Quantity
       Measurement Signal Conditioner                                                                           -       -        -         -
       (FLU)
8.3 NAVIGATION AND SYSTEM
       INTEGRATION
                                                         97
                                         RQ-4 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                            Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

8.3.1 Flight Environment
8.3.1.1 Air Data System
8.3.1.1.1 System Description                                                                                    -       -        -         -
8.3.1.1.2 System Operation                                                                                      -       -        -         -
8.3.1.1.3 System Theory                                                                                         -       -        -         -
8.3.1.1.4 Perform Air Data System                *                                                              -       -        -         -
            Operational Checkout
8.3.1.1.5 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                 -        -        -         -
8.3.1.1.6 Remove/Install System LRUs
8.3.1.1.6.1 Pitot Tube                                                                                         -        -        -         -
8.3.1.1.6.2 Pitot Tube Surge Suppressor                                                                        -        -        -         -
8.3.1.1.6.3 Air Data Tray                                                                                      -        -        -         -
8.3.1.1.6.4 Outside Air Temp Sensor                                                                            -        -        -         -
8.3.1.2 Radio Altimeter System
8.3.1.2.1 System Description                                                                                   -        -        -         -
8.3.1.2.2 System Operation                                                                                     -        -        -         -
8.3.1.2.3 System Theory                                                                                        -        -        -         -
8.3.1.2.4 Perform Operational Checkout
8.3.1.2.4.1 Radio Altimeter                      *                                                             -        -        -         -
8.3.1.2.4.2 Radio Altimeter Sensitivity          *                                                             -        -        -         -
        Check
8.3.1.2.4.3 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                               -        -        -         -
8.3.1.2.5 Remove/Install System LRUs
8.3.1.2.5.1 Radio Altimeter R/T                                                                                -        -        -         -
8.3.1.2.5.2 Radio Altimeter Antennas                                                                           -        -        -         -
8.3.1.2.5.3 Radio Altimeter Low Pass
                                                                                                               -        -        -         -
        Filters
8.3.1.2.5.4 Remove/Install Radio                                                                               -        -        -         -
        Altimeter R/T
8.3.2 Landing and Taxi Aids
8.3.2.1 OmniSTAR System
8.3.2.1.1 System Description                                                                                   -       -         -         -
8.3.2.1.2 System Operation                                                                                     -       -         -         -
8.3.2.1.3 System Theory                                                                                        -       A         -         -
8.3.2.1.4 Perform OmniSTAR System                *                                                             -       -         -         -
        Operational Checkout
8.3.2.1.5 Renew OmniSTAR                                                                                       -        -        -         -
        Subscription
8.3.2.1.6 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                 -        -        -         -
8.3.2.1.7 Remove/Install System LRUs
8.3.2.1.7.1 OmniSTAR Receiver                                                                                  -        -        -         -
8.3.2.1.7.2 OmniSTAR Amplifier                                                                                 -        -        -         -
8.3.2.1.7.3 OmniSTAR Diplexer                                                                                  -        -        -         -
8.3.2.2 Special Category 1 (SCAT-1)
        System
8.3.2.2.1 System Description                                                                                   -        -        -         -
8.3.2.2.2 System Operation                                                                                     -        -        -         -
                                                         98
                                     RQ-4 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E       A        B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

8.3.2.2.3 System Theory                                                                                        -       A         -         -
8.3.2.2.4 Perform SCAT-1 System                  *                                                             -       -         -         -
8.3.2.2.5 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                 -       -         -         -
8.3.2.2.6 Remove/Install System LRUs
8.3.2.2.6.1 SCAT-1 Antenna                                                                                     -        -        -         -
8.3.2.2.6.2 SCAT-1 Receiver                                                                                    -        -        -         -
8.3.2.2.6.3 SCAT-1 Phasing Coupler                                                                             -        -        -         -
8.3.2.2.6.4 SCAT-1 Low Pass Filter                                                                             -        -        -         -
8.3.2.3 See/Detect System
8.3.2.3.1 System Description                                                                                   -        -        -         -
8.3.2.3.2 System Operation                                                                                     -        -        -         -
8.3.2.3.3 System Theory                                                                                        -        -        -         -
8.3.2.3.4 Perform See/Detect Camera                                                                            -        -        -         -
       Non-Conformity Checkout
8.3.2.3.5 Service Nitrogen See/Detect                                                                          -        -        -         -
       Camera
8.3.2.3.6 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                 -        -        -         -
8.3.2.3.7 Remove/Install System LRUs
8.3.2.3.7.1 See/Detect Camera                                                                                  -        -        -         -
8.3.2.3.7.2 Real Time Imaging                                                                                  -        -        -         -
Electronics (RTIE)
8.3.2.3.7.3 See/Detect Camera Electronic                                                                       -        -        -         -
       Unit (EU)
8.3.3 Independent Position Determining
8.3.3.1 Inertial Navigation System (INS)
8.3.3.1.1 System Description                                                                                   -       -         -         -
8.3.3.1.2 System Operation                                                                                     -       -         -         -
8.3.3.1.3 System Theory                                                                                        -       A         -         -
8.3.3.1.4 Perform Operational Checkout
8.3.3.1.4.1 INS Kearfott                         *                                                             -        -        -         -
8.3.3.1.4.2 INS LN-100                           *                                                             -        -        -         -
8.3.3.1.4.3 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                               -        -        -         -
8.3.3.1.5 Remove/Install System LRUs
8.3.3.1.5.1 Kearfott A, B                                                                                      -        -        -         -
8.3.3.1.5.2 Kearfott Battery                                                                                   -        -        -         -
8.3.3.1.5.3 LN-100, EO/IR                                                                                      -        -        -         -
8.3.3.1.5.4 LN-100, SAR                                                                                        -        -        -         -
8.3.3.1.5.5 LN-100 Battery                                                                                     -        -        -         -
8.3.3.1.5.6 GPS Amplifier                                                                                      -        -        -         -
8.3.3.1.5.7 GPS Antenna                                                                                        -        -        -         -
8.3.3.1.5.8 GPS Power Divider                                                                                  -        -        -         -
8.3.3.1.5.9 GPS Anti-Jam Antenna                                                                               -        -        -         -
8.3.3.1.5.10 GPS Anti-Jam Box
                                                                                                               -        -        -         -
       Assembly
8.3.3.1.5.11 Global Air Traffic
                                                                                                               -        -        -         -
       Management (GATM) Receiver
8.3.3.2 Traffic Collision
       Avoidance(TCAS) System
                                                          99
                                         RQ-4 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                            Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

8.3.3.2.1 System Description                                                                                   -        -        -         -
8.3.3.2.2 System Operation                                                                                     -        -        -         -
8.3.3.2.3 System Theory                                                                                        -        -        -         -
8.3.3.2.4 Perform TCAS Operational                                                                             -        -        -         -
       Checkout
8.3.3.2.5 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                 -        -        -         -
8.3.3.2.6 Remove/Install System LRUs
8.3.3.2.6.1 TCAS Computer                                                                                      -        -        -         -
8.3.3.2.6.2 TCAS Upper Antenna                                                                                 -        -        -         -
8.3.3.2.6.3 TCAS Lower Antenna                                                                                 -        -        -         -
8.4 PROCESSING AND
       INTEGRATION
8.4.1 System Description                                                                                       -        -        -         -
8.4.2 System Operation                                                                                         -        -        -         -
8.4.3 System Theory                                                                                            -        -        -         -
8.4.4 Perform Operational Checkouts
8.4.4.1 Integrated Mission Management            *                                                             -        -        -         -
       Computer (IMMC)
8.4.4.2 Airborne Integrated                                                                                    -        -        -         -
       Communication Systems (AICS)
       Inside Hanger Test
8.4.4.3 AICS Outside Hanger Test                                                                               -        -        -         -
8.4.5 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                     -        -        -         -
8.4.6 Load/Download/Verify Software
8.4.6.1 IMMC                                             *                                                     -        -        -         -
8.4.6.2 Common Airborne Modem                                                                                   -       -        -         -
       Assembly (CAMA)
8.4.6.3 Mission Plan                             *                                                              -       -        -         -
8.4.6.4 Fault Logs                               *                                                              -       -        -         -
8.4.7 Remove/Install System LRUs
8.4.7.1 IMMC                                                                                                    -       -        -         -
8.4.7.2 Analog Splitter                                                                                         -       -        -         -
8.4.7.3 Ethernet Hub                                                                                            -       -        -         -
8.4.7.4 CAMA                                                                                                    -       -        -         -
8.5 LINE OF SIGHT (LOS)
       COMMUNICATIONS
8.5.1 UHF
8.5.1.1 System Description                                                                                      -       -        -         -
8.5.1.2 System Operation                                                                                        -       -        -         -
8.5.1.3 System Theory                                                                                           -       -        -         -
8.5.1.4 Perform UHF Operational                                                                                 -       -        -         -
       Checkout
8.5.1.5 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                    -       -        -         -
8.5.1.6 Remove/Install System LRUs
8.5.1.6.1 UHF R/T                                                                                               -       -        -         -

                                                          100
                                         RQ-4 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                            Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

8.5.1.6.2 UHF LOS Antennas                                                                                      -       -        -         -
8.5.1.6.3 UHF RF Filters                                                                                        -       -        -         -
8.5.1.6.4 UHF RF Switches                                                                                       -       -        -         -
8.5.1.6.5 UHF RF Couplers                                                                                       -       -        -         -
8.5.2 Common Data Link (CDL)
8.5.2.1 System Description                                                                                    A         -        -         -
8.5.2.2 System Operation                                                                                       -        -        -         -
8.5.2.3 System Theory                                                                                          -        -        -         -
8.5.2.4 Perform CDL Operational                                                                                -        -        -         -
       Checkout
8.5.2.5 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                    -       -        -         -
8.5.2.6 Remove/Install System LRUs
8.5.2.6.1 CDL Antenna                                                                                           -       -        -         -
8.5.2.6.2 Radio Frequency Assembly                                                                              -       -        -         -
       (RFA), CDL
8.5.3 Air Traffic Control (ATC) Voice
8.5.3.1 System Description                                                                                    A         -        -         -
8.5.3.2 System Operation                                                                                       -        -        -         -
8.5.3.3 System Theory                                                                                          -        -        -         -
8.5.3.4 Perform ATC Voice Operational                                                                          -        -        -         -
       Checkout
8.5.3.5 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                    -       -        -         -
8.5.3.6 Remove/Install System LRUs
8.5.3.6.1 UHF/VHF R/T                                                                                           -       -        -         -
8.6 IDENTIFICATION, FRIEND OR
       FOE (IFF)
8.6.1 System Description                                                                                        -       -        -         -
8.6.2 System Operation                                                                                          -       -        -         -
8.6.3 System Theory                                                                                             -       -        -         -
8.6.4 Perform Operational Checkout
8.6.4.2 IFF System Radiate Test                                                                                 -       -        -         -
8.6.4.3 IFF Modes                                *                                                              -       -        -         -
8.6.5 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                      -       -        -         -
8.6.6 Remove/Install System LRUs
8.6.6.1 IFF R/T                                                                                                 -       -        -         -
8.6.6.2 IFF R/T Crypto Module                                                                                   -       -        -         -
8.6.6.3 IFF R/T Antenna                                                                                         -       -        -         -
8.7 EMERGENCY LOCATOR
       TRANSMITTER (ELT)
8.7.1 System Description                                                                                        -       -        -         -
8.7.2 System Operation                                                                                          -       -        -         -
8.7.3 System Theory                                                                                             -       -        -         -
8.7.4 Perform Operational Checkout                                                                              -       -        -         -
8.7.5 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                      -       -        -         -
8.7.6 Remove/Install System LRUs
                                                          101
                                      RQ-4 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                             2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                            Indicate Training/Information
                                             Task                                                          Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

8.7.6.1 ELT                                                                                                     -       -        -         -
8.7.6.2 ELT Antenna                                                                                             -       -        -         -
8.7.6.3 ELT Remote Switch                                                                                       -       -        -         -
8.7.6.4 ELT Battery                                                                                             -       -        -         -
8.8 SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
8.8.1 KU Satellite Communications
8.8.1.1 System Description                                                                                    A         -        -         -
8.8.1.2 System Operation                                                                                       -        -        -         -
8.8.1.3 System Theory                                                                                          -        -        -         -
8.8.1.4 Perform Operational Checkout                                                                           -        -        -         -
8.8.1.5 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                   -        -        -         -
8.8.1.6 Remove/Install System LRUs
8.8.1.6.1 KU Antenna                                                                                            -       -        -         -
8.8.1.6.2 KU High Voltage Power Supply                                                                          -       -        -         -
8.8.1.6.3 KU High Power Amp (HPA)                                                                               -       -        -         -
8.8.1.6.4 KU RFA                                                                                                -       -        -         -
8.8.2 UHF SatCom
8.8.2.1 System Description                                                                                    A         -        -         -
8.8.2.2 System Operation                                                                                       -        -        -         -
8.8.2.3 System Theory                                                                                          -        -        -         -
8.8.2.4 Perform Operational Checkout                                                                           -        -        -         -
8.8.2.5 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                   -        -        -         -
8.8.2.6 Remove/Install System LRUs
8.8.2.6.1 UHF SatCom Antenna                                                                                    -       -        -         -
8.8.2.6.2 UHF SatCom Diplexer                                                                                   -       -        -         -
8.8.2.6.3 UHF HPA                                                                                               -       -        -         -
8.8.3 International Maritime Satellite
       (INMARSAT)
8.8.3.1 System Description                                                                                      -       -        -         -
8.8.3.2 System Operation                                                                                        -       -        -         -
8.8.3.3 System Theory                                                                                           -       -        -         -
8.8.3.4 Perform Operational Checkout                                                                            -       -        -         -
8.8.3.5 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                    -       -        -         -
8.8.3.6 Remove/Install System LRUs
8.8.3.6.1 INMARSAT SatCom Data Unit                                                                             -       -        -         -
8.8.3.6.2 INMARSAT HPA                                                                                          -       -        -         -
8.8.3.6.3 INMARSAT Antenna                                                                                      -       -        -         -
8.9 INTEGRATED SENSOR SUITE
       (ISS)
8.9.1 Perform Operational Checkout
8.9.1.1 ISS Test (Inside Hanger)                 *                                                              -       -        -         -
8.9.1.2 ISS Test (Outside Hanger)                *                                                              -       -        -         -
8.9.2 Electro Optical Infrared System
       (EO/IR)
8.9.2.1 System Description                                                                                    A         -        -         -
8.9.2.2 System Operation                                                                                       -        -        -         -
8.9.2.3 System Theory                                                                                          -        -        -         -
8.9.2.4 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                   -        -        -         -
8.9.2.5 Remove/Install System LRUs


                                                          102
                                      RQ-4 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                             Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                           Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

8.9.2.5.1 Electro-Optical Infrared                                                                              -       -        -         -
8.9.2.5.2 Integrated Sensor Processor                                                                           -       -        -         -
8.9.2.5.3 Power Distribution Unit (PDU)                                                                         -       -        -         -
8.9.2.5.4 Sensor Electronics Unit (SEU)                                                                         -       -        -         -
8.9.2.5.5 ISS Ballast                                                                                           -       -        -         -
8.9.2.5.6 Purge ERU                                                                                             -       -        -         -
8.9.2.5.7 Sensor Management Unit                                                                                -       -        -         -
8.9.2.5.8 Clean ERU Glass Non-Contact                                                                           -       -        -         -
8.9.2.5.9 Clean ERU Glass Contact                                                                               -       -        -         -
8.9.3 Solid State Recorder (SSR)
8.9.3.1 System Description                                                                                      -       -        -         -
8.9.3.2 System Operation                                                                                        -       -        -         -
8.9.3.3 System Theory                                                                                           -       -        -         -
8.9.3.4 Perform SSR Operational                                                                                 -       -        -         -
       Checkout
8.9.3.5 Erase Hard Drive                                                                                        -       -        -         -
8.9.3.6 Remove/Install SSR                                                                                      -       -        -         -
8.9.4 Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR)
8.9.4.1 System Description                                                                                    A         -        -         -
8.9.4.2 System Operation                                                                                       -        -        -         -
8.9.4.3 System Theory                                                                                          -        -        -         -
8.9.4.4 Remove/Install System LRUs
8.9.4.4.1 SAR Antenna                                                                                           -       -        -         -
8.9.4.4.2 SAR Transmitter                                                                                       -       -        -         -
8.9.4.4.3 Receiver / Exciter / Controller                                                                       -       -        -         -
       (REC)




                                                          103
                                     EXTERNAL POD TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                Indicate Training/Information
                                               Task                                                              Provided (See Note)

                                                        A      B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                          7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                   3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                             Skill
                                                                                                                    Level
                                                     5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                       Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC
NOTE1:   The apprentice course will use representative aircraft/trainers to accomplish the system specific training requirements as
         identified by the STS. The common section of the CFETP is used to code core competencies of the career field that
         will be taught in the apprentice course. The MDS specific attachments are to be used in conjunction with the
         common section to identify requirements and annotate qualifications.

NOTE2:   All task/knowledge taught in the initial skills courses will be taught in the wartime initial skills courses.

NOTE3:   Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revisions.

NOTE4:    Core Tasks are identified by an asterisk (*) in the appropriate column.
NOTE 5: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Manager to the AETC Training
         Manager, DSN: 736-7908.
9.1 LITENING POD TR: Applicable F16
        –2 and –34 series TOs
9.1.1 System Description                                                                                              -       -        -         -
9.1.2 System Operation                                                                                                -       -        -         -
9.1.3 System Theory                                                                                                   -       -        -         -
9.1.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                          -       -        -         -
9.1.5 Perform system checkout
9.1.5.1 BIT                                                                                                           -       -        -         -
9.1.5.2 Operational                                                                                                   -       -        -         -
9.1.5.3 Hardpoint                                                                                                     -       -        -         -
9.1.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                            -       -        -         -
9.1.7 Remove LRU(s)                                                                                                   -       -        -         -
9.1.8 Install LRU(s)                                                                                                  -       -        -         -
9.1.9 Use test equipment                                                                                              -       -        -         -
9.1.10 Upload/Download Pod                                                                                            -       -        -         -
9.1.11 Upload/Download Pylon                                                                                          -       -        -         -
9.2 LANTIRN TARGETING POD TR:
        Applicable F-16 -2 and -34 series
9.2.1 System Description                                                                                              -       -        -         -
9.2.2 System Operation                                                                                                -       -        -         -
9.2.3 System Theory                                                                                                   -       -        -         -
9.2.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                          -       -        -         -
9.2.5 Perform system checkout
9.2.5.1 BIT                                                                                                           -       -        -         -
9.2.5.2 Operational                                                                                                   -       -        -         -
9.2.5.3 Hardpoint                                                                                                     -       -        -         -
9.2.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                            -       -        -         -
9.2.7 Remove LRU(s)                                                                                                   -       -        -         -
9.2.8 Install LRU(s)                                                                                                  -       -        -         -
9.2.9 Service                                                                                                         -       -        -         -
9.2.10 Upload/Download Pod                                                                                            -       -        -         -
9.2.11 Upload/Download Pylon                                                                                          -       -        -         -
9.2.12 Use test equipment                                                                                             -       -        -         -
9.3 SNIPER TR: Applicable F-1 6 -2
        and -34 series TOs
9.3.1 System Description                                                                                              -       -        -         -
9.3.2 System Operation                                                                                                -       -        -         -
9.3.3 System Theory                                                                                                   -       -        -         -
9.3.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                          -       -        -         -
9.3.5 Perform system checkout
9.3.5.1 BIT                                                                                                           -       -        -         -


                                                                104
                               EXTERNAL POD TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                         2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                Indicate Training/Information
                                         Task                                                              Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                             Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

9.3.5.2 Operational                                                                                             -       -        -         -
9.3.5.3 Hardpoint                                                                                               -       -        -         -
9.3.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                      -       -        -         -
9.3.7 Remove LRU/LRM(s)                                                                                         -       -        -         -
9.3.8 Install LRU/LRM(s)                                                                                        -       -        -         -
9.3.9 Use test equipment                                                                                        -       -        -         -
9.3.10 Upload/Download Pod                                                                                      -       -        -         -
9.3.11 Upload/Download Pylon                                                                                    -       -        -         -
9.3.12 Load OFP                                                                                                 -       -        -         -
9.4 HARM TARGETING SYSTEM
       POD (HTS)/SMART
       TARGETING AND
       IDENTIFICATION VIA
       NETWORKED GEO-
       LOCATION (STING) POD TR:
       Applicable F-16 - 2 and -34 series
       TOs
9.4.1 System Description                                                                                        -       -        -         -
9.4.2 System Operation                                                                                          -       -        -         -
9.4.3 System Theory                                                                                             -       -        -         -
9.4.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                    -       -        -         -
9.4.5 Perform system checkout
9.4.5.1 BIT                                                                                                     -       -        -         -
9.4.5.2 Operational                                                                                             -       -        -         -
9.4.5.3 Hardpoint                                                                                               -       -        -         -
9.4.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                      -       -        -         -
9.4.7 Use test equipment                                                                                        -       -        -         -
9.4.8 Upload/Download Pod                                                                                       -       -        -         -
9.4.9 Mate/unmate Pylon                                                                                         -       -        -         -
9.4.10 Load OFP                                                                                                 -       -        -         -
9.5 THEATRE AIRBORNE
       RECONNAISANCE SYSTEM
       (TARS Pod) TR: Applicable F-1 6
       -2 and -34 TOs, 10A1-5-44-1, and
       MRP Ground Support Equipment
       Manuals 791-0305, 791-0308
9.5.1 System Description                                                                                        -       -        -         -
9.5.2 System Operation                                                                                          -       -        -         -
9.5.3 System Theory                                                                                             -       -        -         -
9.5.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                    -       -        -         -
9.5.5 Perform operational checkout
9.5.5.1 IBIT                                                                                                    -       -        -         -
9.5.5.2 Operational                                                                                             -       -        -         -
9.5.5.3 Operational using IMP                                                                                   -       -        -         -
9.5.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                      -       -        -         -
9.5.7 Remove LRU(s)
9.5.7.1 Panels and midbay window                                                                                -       -        -         -
9.5.7.2 Solid State Recorder                                                                                    -       -        -         -
9.5.7.3 EO-FS and lens                                                                                          -       -        -         -
9.5.7.4 ECU                                                                                                     -       -        -         -
9.5.7.5 MAEO Camera                                                                                             -       -        -         -
9.5.7.6 Other LRU(s)                                                                                            -       -        -         -
9.5.8 Install LRU(s)
                                                          105
                               EXTERNAL POD TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                             4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                         2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                         Task                                                                Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A        B        C         D       E        A         B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                        Level
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)      (2)       (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course   CDC       Course    CDC

9.5.8.1 Panels and midbay window                                                                                 -        -         -         -
9.5.8.2 Solid State Recorder                                                                                     -        -         -         -
9.5.8.3 EO-FS and lens                                                                                           -        -         -         -
9.5.8.4 ECU                                                                                                      -        -         -         -
9.5.8.5 MAEO Camera                                                                                              -        -         -         -
9.5.8.6 Other LRU(s)                                                                                             -        -         -         -
9.5.9 Clean LRU(s) and windows                                                                                   -        -         -         -
9.5.10 Use test equipment
9.5.10.1 Upload/Download software                                                                                -        -         -         -
9.5.10.2 Other tests                                                                                             -        -         -         -
9.5.11 Support Equipment
9.5.11.1 Perform pre-use inspection                                                                              -        -         -         -
9.5.11.2 Operate                                                                                                 -        -         -         -
9.5.12 Upload/Download Pod/Adapter                                                                               -        -         -         -
9.6 ELECTRONIC
       COUNTERMEASURES (ECM)
       SYSTEM (PODS) TR: Applicable
       F16 -2 series TOs
9.6.1 System Description                                                                                         -       -          -         -
9.6.2 System Operation                                                                                           -       -          -         -
9.6.3 System Theory                                                                                              -       A          -         -
9.6.4 Trace signal/data flow                                                                                     -       -          -         -
9.6.5 Perform operational checkout                                                                               -       -          -         -
9.6.6 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                       -       -          -         -
9.6.7 Use test equipment                                                                                         -       -          -         -
9.6.8 Install Control Panel                                                                                      -       -          -         -
9.6.9 Remove Control Panel                                                                                       -       -          -         -
9.6.10 Upload/download pod                                                                                       -       -          -         -
9.6.11 Upload/download centerline                                                                                -       -          -         -
       pylon adapter
9.6.12 Inspect pylon adapter                                                                                     -        -         -         -
9.6.13 Load OFP / Mission tapes                                                                                  -        -         -         -




                                                         106
                             ELECTRONIC PRINCIPLES TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                   Indicate Training/Information
                                            Task                                                                 Provided (See Note)

                                                       A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                          7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                   3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                             Skill
                                                                                                                   Level
                                                     5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                       Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC
NOTE1: This attachment identifies the Air Force standardized STS electronic fundamentals and applications entries.

NOTE2:    Only those electronic fundamentals and applications items in column 4 that have a training code in the 3- or 7-level or
          CDC columns are trained to that specified level

NOTE 3: Users may annotate additional devices or circuits not identified by this attachment that are specific to their AFSC IAW
         AFI 36-2201. Users may annotate lists of TRs to identify current references pending STS revision.

NOTE 4: Items in column 1, marked with a single asterisk (*) are the task/knowledge that are trained in resident wartime courses
         to the proficiency levels listed in the column 4a. Items with a dash (-) in columns 4a are not trained in the resident
         wartime course.
10.1 ELECTRONICS SUPPORT
        SUBJECTS
10.1.1 Safety                                                                                                       B        -         -         -
10.1.2 First Aid                                                                                                    A        -         -         -
10.1.3 Electrostatic Discharge (ESD)                                                                                B        B         -         -
        Control
10.1.4 Electromagnetic Effects                                                                                       B        -        -         -
        (EMP/EMI)
10.1.5 Metric Notation
10.1.5.1 Calculate Powers of Ten                                                                                     B        -        -         -
10.1.5.2 Electrical Prefixes                                                                                         B        -        -         -
10.2 USE TEST EQUIPMENT
10.2.1 Analog Multi-meter                                                                                          2b         -        -         -
10.2.2 Digital Multi-meter                                                                                         2b         -        -         -
10.2.3 Oscilloscope                                                                                                2b         -        -         -
10.2.4 Signal/Function Generator                                                                                   2b         -        -         -
10.3 BASIC CIRCUITS
10.3.1 Direct Current (DC)
10.3.1.1 Theory                                                                                                      B        -        -         -
10.3.1.2 Calculations                                                                                                B        -        -         -
10.3.2 Alternating Current (AC)
10.3.2.1 Theory                                                                                                      B        -        -         -
10.3.2.2 Calculations                                                                                                B        -        -         -
10.4 BASIC CIRCUIT COMPONENTS
10.4.1 Resistors
10.4.1.1 Theory                                                                                                      B        -        -         -
10.4.1.2 Color Code                                                                                                  B        -        -         -
10.4.1.3 Troubleshoot (Calculate and
                                                                                                                   2b         -        -         -
        Measure
10.4.2 Inductors
10.4.2.1 Theory                                                                                                     B         -        -         -
10.4.2.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                              2b         -        -         -
10.4.3 Capacitors
10.4.3.1 Theory                                                                                                     B         -        -         -
10.4.3.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                              2b         -        -         -
10.4.4 Resistive-Capacitive-Inductive
        (RCL) Circuits Theory
10.4.4.1Basic                                                                                                       A         -        -         -
10.4.4.2 Resonant                                                                                                   A         -        -         -
10.4.4.3 Frequency Sensitive Filter                                                                                 A         -        -         -
10.5 ELECTROMAGNETIC DEVICES
10.5.1 Transformers
10.5.1.1 Theory                                                                                                      B        -        -         -

                                                                107
                         ELECTRONIC PRINCIPLES TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                        Task                                                               Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                             Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

10.5.1.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                        2b         -        -         -
10.5.2 Relays and Solenoids
10.5.2.1 Theory                                                                                               B        B         -         -
10.5.2.2 Troubleshoot Relay                                                                                  2b        -         -         -
10.5.3 Motor Theory
10.5.3.1 DC                                                                                                   A         -        -         -
10.5.3.2 AC                                                                                                   A         -        -         -
10.5.4 Generator Theory
10.5.4.1 DC                                                                                                   A         -        -         -
10.5.4.2 AC                                                                                                   A         -        -         -
10.5.5 Synchro/Servo
10.5.5.1 Theory                                                                                                B       B         -         -
10.5.6 Transducer Theory                                                                                       B       -         -         -
10.6 SOLID STATE DEVICES
10.6.1 Diodes
10.6.1.1 Theory                                                                                               B         -        -         -
10.6.1.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                        2b         -        -         -
10.6.2 Transistors
10.6.2.1 Theory                                                                                               B
10.6.2.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                        2b
10.6.3 Special Purpose Device Theory
10.6.3.1 Zener Diode                                                                                          B         -        -         -
10.6.3.2 Light Emitting Diode (LED)                                                                           A         -        -         -
10.6.3.3 Liquid Crystal Display (LCD)                                                                         A         -        -         -
10.6.3.4 Integrated Circuits (IC)                                                                             A         -        -         -
10.6.3.6 Operational Amplifiers                                                                               A         -        -         -
10.7 TRANSISTOR AMPLIFIER
         CIRCUITS
10.7.1 Theory                                                                                                 A         -        -         -
10.7.2 Stabilization                                                                                           -        -        -         -
10.7.3 Coupling                                                                                               A         -        -         -
10.8 POWER SUPPLY CIRCUITS
10.8.1 Theory
10.8.1.1 Rectifiers                                                                                           B         -        -         -
10.8.1.2 Filters                                                                                              B         -        -         -
10.8.1.3 Voltage Regulators                                                                                   B         -        -         -
10.8.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                          2b         -        -         -
10.9 WAVE GENERATING CIRCUITS
10.9.1 Theory
10.9.1.1 Oscillators                                                                                          A         -        -         -
10.9.1.2 Multivibrators                                                                                       A         -        -         -
10.9.1.3 Waveshaping Circuits                                                                                 A         -        -         -
10.10 DIGITAL NUMBERING
         SYSTEMS
10.10.1 Conversions
10.10.1.1 Binary                                                                                               B       B         -         -
10.10.1.2 Octal                                                                                                B       -         -         -
10.10.1.3 Hexadecimal                                                                                          B       B         -         -
10.10.1.4 Binary Coded Decimal                                                                                 B       -         -         -



                                                          108
                         ELECTRONIC PRINCIPLES TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                Indicate Training/Information
                                        Task                                                               Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

10.10.2 Hexidecimal Math Operations                                                                             -       -        -         -
10.11 DIGITAL LOGIC CIRCUITS
10.11.1 Theory                                                                                                 -        -        -         -
10.11.1.1 Gates                                                                                               A         -        -         -
10.11.1.2 Flip Flops                                                                                          A         -        -         -
10.11.2 Digital to Analog (DA) and                                                                                      -        -         -
        Analog to Digital (AD) Converters                                                                     A
        Theory
10.12 BASIC COMPUTER
        FUNDAMENTALS
10.12.1 Network Theory
10.12.1.1 Components                                                                                            -       -        -         -
10.12.1.2 Types                                                                                                 -       -        -         -
10.12.1.3 Topologies                                                                                            -       -        -         -
10.12.1.4 Communications Mediums                                                                                -       -        -         -
10.12.1.5 LAN Architecture                                                                                      -       -        -         -
10.13 BASIC COMMUNICATIONS
        THEORY
10.13.1 Antenna                                                                                               B         -        -         -
10.13.2 Transmission Lines                                                                                    B         -        -         -
10.13.3 Data Bus                                                                                              B         -        -         -
10.13.4 Waveguide                                                                                             B         -        -         -
10.13.5 Fiber Optics                                                                                          B         -        -         -
10.13.6 Cryptology                                                                                             -        -        -         -
10.13.7 Waveforms (DAMA, phaseshift,
                                                                                                                -       -        -         -
        frequency hopping, SINCGARS)
10.13.8 Transmitters
10.13.8.1 Frequency Modulation (FM)                                                                            B        -        -         -
10.13.8.2 Amplitude Modulation (AM)                                                                            B        -        -         -
10.13.9 Receivers
10.13.10 Frequency Modulation (FM)                                                                             B
10.13.10.1 Amplitude Modulation (AM)                                                                           B        -        -         -
10.13.10.1.1 AM Receiver Signals
10.13.10.1.1.1 Measure Radio Frequency                                                                                  -        -         -
                                                                                                                -
       (RF)
10.13.10.1.1.2 Measure Intermediate                                                                                     -        -         -
                                                                                                                -
       Frequency (IF)
10.13.10.1.1.3 Measure Audio Frequency                                                                                  -        -         -
                                                                                                                -
       (AF)
10.13.10.1.1.4 Measure Local Oscillator                                                                                 -        -         -
                                                                                                                -
       (LO) Output
10.14 SOLDER AND DESOLDER
10.14.1 Terminal Connection                                                                                  2b         -        -         -
10.14.3 Multipin Connector                                                                                   2b         -        -         -
10.14.4 Coaxial Connector                                                                                    2b         -        -         -
10.15 ASSEMBLE SOLDERLESS
       CONNECTORS
10.15.1 Crimped Connection                                                                                   2b         -        -         -
10.15.2 Coaxial Connector                                                                                    2b         -        -         -
10.15.3 Multipin Connector                                                                                   2b         -        -         -

                                                          109
                  ELECTRONIC PRINCIPLES TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                      2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                  Indicate Training/Information
                                      Task                                                                 Provided (See Note)

                                                 A       B         A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                             3 Skill 5Level
                                                                                                                       Skill
                                                                                                              Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level   Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier    (1)     (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC        Course    CDC

10.16 GENERAL SHOP
      PRACTICES
10.16.1 Securing Cables                                                                                      2b
10.16.2 Safety Wire                                                                                          2b
10.16.3 Multipin Connector                                                                                   2b
10.16.4 Splicing Connectors                                                                                  2b
10.16.5 Troubleshooting Methods                                                                              2b




                                                         110
                            2AX7X Specialty Training Standard
                        AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
`1. Tasks                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided
Knowledge And Technical References                                                                           A          B               C
                                                                                                         3-Skill Level 5-Skill Level          7-Skill Level
                                                                                                             (1)           (1)         (1)              (2)
                                                                                                            Crse           CDC         Crse            CDC

Attachment 23 – 2AX7X SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
NOTE 1: Columns 2 and 3 are deleted from this STS because all items are SUBJECT KNOWLEDGE LEVEL only and require no certification.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: This attachment is to be used in conjunction with other attachments in applicable CFETPs.
NOTE 4: Personnel must complete CDC requirements on all MDSs/attachments.
NOTE 5: This attachment is to be used as a correlation document for the 2AX7X 7-level Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman CDCs.

11.1.         MAINTENANCE PHILOSOPHY AND POLICY
11.1.1.       Aircraft and Equipment Readiness
              TR: AFI 21-101 and Repair Enterprise 21 Fact Sheet                                                                                        A
               (https://acc.dau.mil/CommunityBrowser.aspx?id=32781
11.1.2.       Maintenance Concept
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-129                                                                                                             A
11.1.3.       Reliability and Maintainability (R&M)
              TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-118 and TO 00-35D-54.                                                                                              A
11.1.4.       Operating Instructions (OI)
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 33-360                                                                                                             A
11.1.5.       Support Agreements (SA)
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 25-201                                                                                                             A
11.1.6.       Modification and Configuration Management
              TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                                                            A
11.1.7.       Maintenance Information Systems (MIS)
              TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-116, AFCSM 21-556 volume 2, and TO 00-20-2                                                                         B
11.1.8.       Maintenance Performance Indicator Metrics and Health of the Fleet
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-103                                                                                                             B
11.1.9.       Personnel Utilization
              TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                                                            A
11.1.10.      Maintenance Repair Priorities
              TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                                                            A
11.1.11.      Minimum Essential System Listing (MESL)
            TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-103                                                                                                               A
11.1.12.      Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS), and AEF Reporting Tool (ART)
              TR: AFI 10-201, AFI 10-244 and https://aefcenter.afpc.randolph.af.mil/                                                                    A
11.1.13.      Historical Aircraft and Equipment Records
              TR: AFI 21-101 and T.O. 00-20-1                                                                                                           A
11.1.14.      Maintenance Scheduling Effectiveness
              TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                                                            A
11.2.          MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION KEY LEADER RESPONSIBILITIES
11.2.1.        Wing Commander (WG/CC)
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101                                                                                                             A
11.2.2.       Wing Vice Commander (WG/CV)
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101                                                                                                             A
11.2.3.       Maintenance Group Commander (MXG/CC)
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101                                                                                                             A
11.2.4.       Maintenance Group Deputy Commander (MXG/CD)
              TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                                                            A
11.2.5.       MXG Superintendent (SUPT)
              TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                                                            A

                                                                     111
                         2AX7X Specialty Training Standard
                     AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
11.2.6.    Squadron Commander (SQ/CC) Responsibilities
           TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 A
11.2.7.    Operations Officer and Maintenance Superintendent (MX SUPT) Responsibilities
           TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 A
11.2.8.    Flight Commander/Flight Chief
           TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 A
11.2.9.    AMU OIC/Superintendent (SUPT)
           TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 A
11.2.10.   Section NCOIC
           TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 A
11.2.11.   Production Superintendent (Pro Super)
           TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 A
11.2.12.   Expediter
           TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 B
11.3.      FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS SQUADRON (MOS)
            TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
11.3.1.    Maintenance Operations Flight (MOF)
           TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 A
11.3.2.    Maintenance Training Flight (MTF)
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 36-2232                                                 A
11.3.3.    Programs and Resources Flight
           TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 A
11.3.4.    Quality Assurance (QA) Flight
           TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 A
11.4.      FUNCTIONS OF AIRCRAFT/HELICOPTER MAINTENANCE SQUADRON
            (AMXS/HMXS) TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
11.4.1.    Aircraft Maintenance Unit (AMU)
           TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 A
11.4.2.    Aircrew and Maintenance Debrief Section
           TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 A
11.4.3.    Aircraft Section
           TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 A
11.4.4.    Specialist Section
           TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 A
11.4.5.    Weapons Section
           TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 A
11.4.6.    Plans, Scheduling and Documentation Section (PS&D)
           TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 A
11.4.7.    Support Section
           TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 A
11.5.      FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE SQUADRON (MXS)
            TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
11.5.1.    Accessories Flight
           TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 A
11.5.2.    Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) Flight
           TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 A
11.5.3.    Armament Flight
           TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 A
11.5.4.    Avionics Flight
           TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 A
11.5.5.    Fabrication Flight
           TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 A
11.5.6.    Maintenance Flight
           TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 A
11.5.7.    Munitions Flight
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-201                                                  A
11.5.8.    Propulsion Flight
           TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 A
11.5.9.    Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE) Flight
           TR: AFI 21-101                                                                 A
11.6.      AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND RESPONSIBILITIES
                                                               112
                           2AX7X Specialty Training Standard
                       AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
11.6.1.      Air Logistics Centers (ALC)
             TR: AFMCMD (Mission Directives) 406, 407 and 410.
              Located at: https://www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/pdl/afmc/md.htm ,
              OO-ALC Brochure located at: http://www.hill.af.mil/main/index.html ,                A
              WR-ALC: http://www.robins.af.mil/units/402mw.asp and
              OC-ALC: http://www.tinker.af.mil/units/
11.6.2.      Air Force Flight Test Center
             TR: AFMCMD 404 located at https://www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/pdl/afmc/md.htm
              and Flight Test Center Fact Sheet locate at:                                        A
              http://www.edwards.af.mil/library/factsheets/factsheet_print.asp?fsID=6573&page=1
11.6.3.      Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Center (AMARC)
             TR: AFMCMD 415 located at: https://www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/pdl/afmc/md.htm and     A
             http://www.dm.af.mil/units/amarc.asp
11.7.         MAINTENANCE TRAINING
11.7.1        Types of Training
             TR: AFI 36-2232 and the ETCA site located at: https://etca.randolph.af.mil/          A
11.7.2.      Training Documentation
             TR: AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101, and AFI 36-2201                                         A
11.7.3.      Special Certification Rosters
           TR: AFI 21-101                                                                         A
11.7.4.      Maintenance Qualification Program (MQP)
             TR: AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101 and AFPD 10-9.                                           A
11.7.5.       Training Forecast / Request
             TR: AFI 36-2232 and AFI 21-101                                                       A
11.7.6.       Training Development Process
             TR: AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101, and AETCI 36-2601                                       A
11.8.        PERSONNEL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
11.8.1.      Capability Based Manpower Standard and Logistics Composite Model (LCOM)
                                                                                                  A
              TR: AFMAN 38-208 Volume 3, AFI 38-201, AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
11.8.2.      Unit Manpower Document (UMD) and Unit Personnel Manpower Roster (UPMR)
                                                                                                  A
             TR: AFI 38-201, AFTTP 3-21.1 and AFI 36-2110
11.9.       MAINTENANCE SUPPLY
11.9.1.     Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS) Supply Support
                                                                                                  A
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
11.9.2.     Readiness Spares Packages
                                                                                                  A
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
11.9.3.     Consumables Management
                                                                                                  A
             TR: AFI 21-101, AFTTP 3-21.1 and AFMAN 23-110
11.9.4.      Equipment Items
                                                                                                  A
              TR: AFI 21-101, AFTTP 3-21.1 and AFMAN 23-110
11.9.5.     Special Purpose Recoverable Authorized Maintenance (SPRAM) Assets
                                                                                                  A
              TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and AFI 21-103
11.9.6.     Supply Assets Requiring Functional Check, Calibration, or Operational Flight
              Programming                                                                         A
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
11.9.7.     Precious Metals Recovery Program
                                                                                                  A
              TR: AFMAN 23-110
11.9.8.     Supply Points
                                                                                                  A
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
11.9.9.     Local Manufacture
                                                                                                  A
              TR: AFI 21-101
11.9.10.     Repair Cycle Assets / Supply Management Products
                                                                                                  A
              TR: AFI 23-110 and AFI 21-101
11.9.11.     Tail Number Bins (TNB)
                                                                                                  A
              TR: AFI 21-101
11.9.12.     Maintenance Repair / Supply Delivery Priorities
                                                                                                  A
              TR: AFI 21-101

                                                                    113
                            2AX7X Specialty Training Standard
                        AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
11.9.13.      Classified Assets
                                                                                                     A
              TR: AFI 21-101 and TO 00-20-1
11.9.14.      Hazardous Materials
                                                                                                     A
              TR: AFMAN 24-204, AFI 91-301, AFI 24-202, AFMAN 23-110
11.9.15.       Supply Deficiency and Discrepancy Reporting
              TR: AFI 23-110 and AFI 21-101                                                          B
11.10.         TECHNICAL ORDER POLICY
11.10.1.      Use of Technical Orders (TO), TO Supplements and Publications
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1                                                        A
11.10.2.      Technical Order Update Process
              TR: AFI 21-303                                                                         A
11.10.3.      Technical Order Waivers
              TR: AFI 21-303 and AFI 21-101                                                          A
11.11.        MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS AND PROGRAMS
11.11.1.      Cannibalization Program
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1                                                        A
11.11.2.      Restricted Maintenance Areas
              TR: AFI 21-101                                                                         A
11.11.3.      Red Ball Maintenance
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1                                                        A
11.11.4.      Aircraft/Equipment Impoundment Program
              TR: AFI 21-101                                                                         A
11.11.5.     Maintenance Standardization and Evaluation Program (MSEP) Purpose and Inspection
             Types                                                                                   B
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
11.11.6.      Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Program
              TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2232 and AFTTP 3-21.1                                           A
11.11.7.     Dropped Object Prevention (DOP) Program
              TR: AFI 21-101                                                                         A
11.11.8.     Tool Management
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1                                                        A
11.11.9.      Tool Accountability
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
11.11.9.1.    Marking and Tool Identification
              TR: AFI 21-101                                                                         A
11.11.9.2.    Locally Manufactured, Developed, or Modified Tools and Equipment
              TR: AFI 21-101                                                                         A
11.11.9.3.    Lost Item/Tool Procedures
              TR: AFI 21-101                                                                         A
11.11.10.     Maintenance Recovery Team
              TR: AFI 21-101                                                                         A
11.11.11.     Aging Aircraft / Equipment Issues
              TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 63-1001 and the Joint Council on Aging Aircraft website located
               at: http://www.acaa.aero/icaa.html, and SD-22 located at                              A
               http://www.dau.mil/pubs/guidebook/DoD%20DMSMS%20Guidebook%2011-01-06.pdf
11.11.12.     Quality Assurance Evaluators
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1                                                        A
11.11.13.     Computer Applications
              TR: AF Portal, AF E-Publishing site, AF IT E-Learning site, Advanced Distributed
               Learning Services (ADLS) site, AF Center of Excellence for Knowledge Management
               (AFKM) site, Defense Travel System (DTS) training site, Air & Space Expeditionary     A
               Force Center site and the AF Center for Electronic Distribution of Systems (AFCEDS)
               site
11.11.14.     Mobility
              TR: AFTTP 3-21.1, AFI 10-403, AFI 21-101, and the AFMAN 10-100 (Airman’s               A
               Manual)
11.11.15.     Crashed, Damaged or Disabled Aircraft Recovery (CDDAR) Program
              TR: AFI 21-101                                                                         A


                                                                  114
