DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                       CFETP 4M0X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                                           Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                       01 January 2011




                                    AFSC 4M0X1
                 AEROSPACE and OPERATIONAL PHYSIOLOGY




                          CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
                            AND TRAINING PLAN

  ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website
        at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

  RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.




                                             1
                                  CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                AEROSPACE AND OPERATIONAL PHYSIOLOGY SPECIALTY

                                                           TABLE OF CONTENTS

PART I
PREFACE .................................................................................................................................................. 3

ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED ................................................................................................... 4

SECTION A - GENERAL INFORMATION ................................................................................................ 7

SECTION B - CAREER PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION .............................................................. 8

SECTION C - SKILL LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS ................................................................... 19

SECTION D - RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS .......................................................................................... 22

SECTION E - TRANSITIONAL TRAINING GUIDE ................................................................................. 22

PART II
SECTION A – SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD .............................................................................. 23

SECTION B - COURSE OBJECTIVE LIST ............................................................................................. 42

SECTION C - SUPPORT MATERIALS ................................................................................................... 43

SECTION D - TRAINING COURSE INDEX ............................................................................................ 43

SECTION E - MAJCOM UNIQUE REQUIREMENTS ............................................................................. 45

SECTION F - DOCUMENTATION OF TRAINING (MEDICAL SPECIFIC) ............................................. 45


OPR: USAFSAM
Certified By: CMSgt John F. Busby
Supersedes: CFETP 4M0X1 1 Jun 2007
Pages: 46

This CFETP was revised and updated based on the outcome of the 2-6 November 2009
Utilization and Training Workshop. Changes were based on the Occupational Survey
Report and recommendations from the Air Force Career Field Manager and MAJCOM
functional representatives.




                            AEROSPACE AND OPERATIONAL PHYSIOLOGY SPECIALTY


                                                                             2
                                      AFSC 4M0X1
                       CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

PART I
                                            PREFACE

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education and training requirements, training
support resources, and minimum core task requirements for this specialty. The CFETP
provides personnel a clear career path to success and instills rigor in all aspects of career field
training.   To read, review, or print a copy of current CFETP, go to http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts used by supervisors to plan, manage, and control training
within the career field.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section
A, General Information explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B, Career Field
Progression and Information identifies career field progression, duties and responsibilities,
training strategies, and the career field path. Section C, Skill Level Training Requirements
associates each skill level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, training, and
other.) Section D, Resource Constraints lists deficiencies in resources needed to
accomplish the training mission; such as funds, manpower, equipment, and facilities. Section
E Transitional Training Guide identifies transition training guide requirements for use with
merging career fields.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A, Specialty Training Standard (STS) includes
duties, tasks, technical references to support training, Air Education and Training Command
(AETC) conducted training, wartime course, core task, and correspondence course
requirements; Section B, Course Objective List identifies the standards supervisors will use
to determine if Airmen satisfy training requirements. Section C, Support Materials identifies
available support materials. An example is a Qualification Training Package (QTP), which
may be developed to support proficiency training. These packages are identified and made
available on the official AF Publications Electronic Master Catalog of Training Documents
along with the CFETP (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil). Currently, there are no 4M0X1 QTPs.
Section D, Training Course Index is a tool that supervisors can use to determine if
resources are available to support training. Included here are both mandatory and optional
courses. Section E, MAJCOM Unique Requirements identifies specific requirements
supervisors can use to determine if additional training is required for the associated MAJCOM
unique qualification needs. Section F, Documentation of Training provides guidance on
documentation of training (medical specific) in Air Force Training Record (AFTR).

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP ensures individuals in this specialty receive
effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan enables us to
train today’s work force for tomorrow’s jobs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers use Part II
to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.




                                                 3
                             ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training. Formal course that provides individuals who are qualified in one or more
positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance their
expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career Airmen at the advanced level of the
AFS.
Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD). This guide establishes the
occupational structure of the Air Force enlisted force. It incorporates the basic authority for the
enlisted classification structure into AFI 36-2101 and establishes this guide as the official
directory for all military enlisted classification descriptions, codes, and identifiers. The AFECD
can be found at http://ask.afpc.randolph.af.mil/.
Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning (AFIADL). Provides instructional
opportunities for customers beyond the confines of the formal classroom. AFIADL has an
enrollment, distribution, tracking, and testing system in place for distance learning courses.
Air Force Job Qualification Standard/Command Job Qualification Standard
(AFJQS/CJQS). A comprehensive task list which describes a particular job type or duty
position. They are used by supervisors to document task qualifications. The tasks on
AFJQS/CJQS are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.
Aerospace and Operational Physiology Team (AOPT). Operations that provide inputs to
wing commanders on human performance issues, which may negatively impact combat
capability. Assists in Operational Risk Management assessments. Develops human
performance related threat briefs specific to the theater of operation, based on local intelligence
analysis, weather, and other operational/environmental conditions to increase mission
effectiveness. Serves as human performance consultant to the flight surgeon for mishap
investigation to help identify/resolve human performance/human factor issues.

Career Development Course (CDC). Self study correspondence course to provide Airmen
with fundamental knowledge of their Air Force Specialty (AFS).
Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive, core
training document that identifies life-cycle education and training requirements; training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for a specialty. The CFETP aims to give
personnel a clear path and instill a sense of industry in career field training. CFETPs are
officially posted at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

Continuation Training. Additional training exceeding requirements with emphasis on present
or future duty assignments.
Core Task. A task the Air Force Enlisted Career Field Manager (AFCFM) and MAJCOM
Functional Managers (MFMs) identify as a minimum qualification requirement within an Air
Force Specialty or duty position. Core tasks may be specified for a particular skill level or in
general across the AFSC.
Course Objective List (COL). A publication, derived from initial/advanced skills course training
standard, identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective standards provided
to achieve a 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to assist in
conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program.
Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA). The ETCA located at
https://etca.randolph.af.mil/ contains specific MAJCOM procedures, fund citations, reporting
instructions, and listings for formal courses conducted or managed by the MAJCOMs or field
operating agencies (FOAs). The ETCA contains courses conducted or administered by the Air

                                                 4
Force and reserve forces and serves as a reference for the Air Force, DOD, other military
services, government agencies, and security assistance programs.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video, or
other necessary means to supplement training.
Field Technical Training (Type 4). Special or regular on-site training conducted by a field
training detachment (FTD) or by a mobile training team.
Go/No Go. In OJT, the stage at which an individual has gained enough skill, knowledge and
experience to perform the tasks without supervision.
High Altitude Airdrop Mission Support (HAAMS). Operations involving Aerospace and
Operational Physiology personnel supporting unpressurized aircraft flights to include High
Altitude Low Opening (HALO)/High Altitude High Opening (HAHO) personnel and equipment
drops, equipment testing and research, humanitarian aid operations, and Psychological
Operations (PsyOps) missions in safety and life support monitoring roles.
High Altitude Parachutist (HAP). An individual being supported on a high altitude freefall
parachuting jump by an Aerospace and Operational Physiology technician.
High Altitude Reconnaissance Mission Support (HARMS). Operations that involve
aerospace physiological support of high altitude reconnaissance aircraft by maintaining
pressure suit devices.
Initial Skills Training. A formal resident course which results in an AFSC 3-skill level award to
enlisted personnel.
Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly, but flexible process for
planning, developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures personnel
are taught in a cost efficient way the knowledge, skills, and attitudes essential for successful job
performance.
Master Task List (MTL). A comprehensive list of all tasks performed within a work center and
consisting of the current CFETP or AFJQS and locally developed AF Forms 797 (as a
minimum.) The MTL should include tasks required for deployment and/or UTC requirements.

Master Training Plan (MTP). A comprehensive training plan for a work center. It must include
the MTL, QTPs, AFJQS, task breakdowns, commercial publications, and any other document
that supports training (as applicable).

Occupational Survey Report (OSR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational
survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.
On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, ―over-the-shoulder training‖ conducted to certify
personnel in both upgrade (skill level award) and job qualification (duty position certification)
training.

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an
individual in a specific duty position. This portion of the dual channel OJT program occurs both
during and after the upgrade training process. QT is designed to provide the performance skills
required to do the job.

Readiness Skills Verification Program (RSVP). Program designed to maintain war skill core
competencies for all Aerospace and Operational Physiology technicians in the career field.



                                                  5
Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and
equipment that preclude desired training from being delivered.
Skills Training. A formal course which results in the award of a skill level.
Specialty Training. A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (on-the-job)
to qualify and upgrade Airmen in the award of a skill level.
Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force
specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge that an Airman in that specialty may be expected to
perform or to know on the job. Also identifies the training provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, or 7-skill
level within an enlisted AFS. It further serves as a contract between AETC and the functional
user to show which of the overall training requirements for an Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC)
are taught in formal schools and correspondence courses.

Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, established and defined by
authority, custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring
quantities or qualities, establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results. A fixed
quantity or quality.
Task Module (TM). A group of tasks performed within an AFS that are performed together and
that require common knowledge, skills, and abilities. TMs are identified by an identification
code and a statement.
Total Force. All collective Air Force components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian elements)
of the United States Air Force.
Training Capacity. The capability of a training setting to provide training on specified
requirements, based on the availability of resources.
Training Planning Team (TPT). Comprised of the same personnel as a U&TW, however TPTs
are more intimately involved in training development and the range of issues are greater than is
normal in the U&TW forum.
Training Requirements Analysis. A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFS to be
included in the training decision process.
Upgrade Training (UGT). Mandatory training which leads to attainment of higher level of
proficiency.
Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum of MAJCOM AFSC functional
managers, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and training personnel that determines career ladder
progression training requirements.
Wartime Tasks. Those tasks that must be taught when courses are accelerated in a wartime
environment. In response to a wartime scenario, these tasks will be taught in the 3-level course
in a streamlined training environment. These tasks are only for those career fields that still need
them applied to their schoolhouse tasks.




                                                  6
                                Section A - General Information

1. Purpose. This CFETP provides information necessary for Air Force Career Field Manager
(AFCFM), MAJCOM functional managers (MFMs), commanders, training managers,
supervisors and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective career field training
program. This plan outlines the training that individuals in this AFS should receive in order to
develop and progress throughout their career. This plan identifies initial skills, upgrade,
qualification, advanced, and proficiency training. Initial skills training is the AFS specific
training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon retraining into this specialty
for award of the 3-skill level. For our Career Field this training is provided by AFMC through the
USAF School of Aerospace Medicine, Brooks City-Base, TX. Upgrade training (UGT)
identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, and correspondence course
completion requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, 9-skill levels. Qualification training (QT) is
actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an Airman in a specific duty
position. This training program occurs both during and after the UGT process. It is designed to
provide the performance skills/knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training (AT) is
formal specialty training used for selected Airmen. Proficiency training (PT) is additional
training, either in-residence or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills
and knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP also serves the
following purposes:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field-
training program. Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in
an individual’s career.

1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.

1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and the
training delivery method.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints which impact full implementation of the desired
career field-training program.

2. Uses. The CFETP is approved and maintained by the AFCFM. An annual review of the
CFETP is conducted to ensure currency and accuracy. MAJCOMs must ensure that no training
is developed, when such training can be satisfied by existing courses. This plan will be used at
all levels to ensure comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available and instituted
for each individual in the specialty.

2.1. USAFSAM training personnel will develop/revise formal resident, non-resident, and field
training based on requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of the
CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining
resources needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. The MFMs will ensure MAJCOM training programs complement the CFETP mandatory
initial skill and UGT requirements. Identified requirements can be satisfied by OJT, resident
training, or contract training courses.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan.
The lists of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.


                                                  7
3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority. The AFCFM and
MFMs will identify and coordinate through proper channels all initial subsequent changes to the
CFETP. The AFCFM will initiate an annual review of this document to ensure currency and
accuracy. Using the list of courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.

                       Section B - Career Progression and Information

4. Specialty Description. The specialty description is composed of two sections, the specialty
summary and the duties and responsibilities found in the Air Force Enlisted Classification
Directory (AFECD), aerospace and operational physiology.

4.1. Specialty Summary. Operates and maintains aerospace and operational physiology
training devices including altitude chambers and related training equipment. Instructs and
observes on simulated flights to altitude, instructs in a classroom, and manages aerospace and
operational physiology facility. Trains flying/non-flying personnel in subjects such as aircraft
pressurization, night vision, emergency first aid, oxygen equipment, physiological effects of
altitude, human performance, spatial disorientation, sensory phenomena, noise/vibration,
cockpit/crew resource management, situational awareness, acceleration, and emergency
escape from aircraft. Other areas of responsibility include High Altitude Airdrop Mission Support
(HAAMS), conducts parachute jumps when assigned to ―J‖ prefix manning position; parachute
familiarization training, Aerospace and Operational Physiology team training, High Altitude
Reconnaissance Mission Support (HARMS), fighter aircrew acceleration training and limited
hyperbaric chamber operations. Manages associated aerospace and operational physiology
programs.

4.2. Duties and Responsibilities.

4.2.1 Assists the aerospace and operational physiologist in the planning and implementation of
aerospace and operational physiology program activities. Schedules and operates low-
pressure chambers to simulate changes in barometric pressure experienced in flying. Controls
pressure inside chamber, monitors air and oxygen pressure, altimeters, vertical velocity
indicators, humidity, temperature and other instruments indicating chamber environmental
conditions. Operates full-pressure suit controls and associated equipment to adjust pressure
inside full-pressure suits and helmets. Operates hypobaric/hyperbaric chambers and centrifuge
for aircrew training and physiological research. In clinical settings, assists medical officers and
performs hyperbaric observer duties. Performs operational support flying duties in support of
HAAMS operations. Participates in parachuting activities when assigned to the ―J‖ prefix
manning position. Operates weapon system procedural and swing/descent landing trainers.
Operates and logistically supports the Reduced Oxygen Breathing Device (ROBD). Establishes
routine storage, inspection, and maintenance procedures for aircrew flight equipment and
replacement parts used by physiology training program. Develops and implements programs
designed to enhance safety, mission effectiveness, and provide just-in-time training to aircrew
and support personnel on human performance/human factors issues. Serves/assist as human
factors consultant for flight, ground, weapon, and space mishap boards. Interacts with flight
medicine, wing safety, and other base agencies as performance enhancement experts.

4.2.2. Conducts training and testing with aerospace and operational physiology devices. Briefs
trainees before hypobaric chamber flights and other types of physiological training. Questions
trainees for disqualifying defects requiring referral to aerospace physiologist or flight surgeon.
Acts as inside and outside observer/crewmember, during chamber flights, training sessions,
altitude chamber research and centrifuge operations. Observe students for signs of hypoxia,


                                                 8
decompression sickness, and other physiological injury or illness. Administers tests on
physiological data and equipment covered in lectures and trainer indoctrination. Records
information on chamber flights, trainer use, student reactions and symptoms, and operator
performance. Briefs students on proper parachute landing fall techniques. Fits, inspects and
maintains full pressure suits, survival kits and associated equipment. Supports associated flight
operations.

4.2.3. Instructs in the aerospace and operational physiology program. Conducts lectures,
discussions, and demonstrations to indoctrinate flying, parachuting, and non-flying warfighters
on physical and physiological stresses and human performance implications of military aviation,
space operations, and worldwide deployment environments. Discusses physiological factors
involved in acceleration, exposure to thermal burden, pressurized cabins and rapid
decompression, high altitude escape, vision, theory of operation for night vision devices,
sensory illusions and various in-flight oxygen emergency situations. Instructs students in use of
oxygen masks, full-pressure suits, anti-gravity suits, flying clothing, emergency and portable
oxygen systems, night-vision goggles, anti-buffeting helmets, and other high altitude protection
equipment. Instructs and supervises trainees in fitting, adjusting, and maintaining oxygen
masks and other personal equipment, and use of oxygen regulators, ejection seats, and crew
worn equipment. Instructs proper landing procedures and swing landing trainer procedures..
Advises and consults with aerospace and operational physiologists on matters regarding course
curriculum and preparing training materials. Reviews mishap investigation and safety reports to
develop training designed to prepare combat forces for mission effectiveness.

4.2.4. Prepares and maintains records. Records information on types and duration of
hypobaric chambers, trainer use, and participation of students and operator personnel. Records
occurrence and severity of symptoms of decompression sickness, adverse reactions, and other
physiological or psychological disturbances caused by chamber flights. Maintains individual
records of training completion. Prepare reports and collects data on special tests.

4.2.5. Maintains and modifies training equipment. Performs simple maintenance on low-
pressure training chambers, centrifuge, pumps, intercommunication equipment, ejection seat
trainers, pressure suits, oxygen equipment, and other physiological training devices. Prepares
training devices and aids for indoctrination training. Conducts preflight equipment checks.
Installs replacement parts in defective equipment. Prepares recording instruments to follow
course of operations and special tests. Modifies standard equipment and apparatus to perform
special tests. Constructs special training aids, mockups, and testing devices.

4.2.6. Inspects and evaluates aerospace and operational physiology activities. Reviews
policies and procedures to determine compliance with directives. Interprets findings and
recommends corrective action. Coordinates and consults with aerospace and operational
physiologist to improve administrative and technical methods. Evaluates mission-specific
human performance issues as an operational support flyer.

4.2.7. Performs technical aerospace and operational physiology functions. Resolves technical
problems pertaining to aerospace and operational physiology activities. Obtains and compiles
data for aerospace and operational physiology activity reports.

5. Skill and Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the
apprentice to the superintendent skill level play important roles in the Air Force’s ability to
accomplish its mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training do their part to plan,



                                                  9
manage, and conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the
CFETP will ensure each individual receives viable training at appropriate points in their career.

5.1. Apprentice (3) Level. Initial skills training in this specialty consists of the tasks and
knowledge training provided in the 3-skill level residence course located at Wright Patterson
AFB, OH, TX. Skills training requirements were revalidated during the 4M0X1 Utilization and
Training Workshop held 2-6 November 2009 at Brooks City-Base, TX. The decision to
revalidate the specific skills and knowledge taught in the initial skills course was based on a
review of Occupational Survey Report (OSR) data, and 4M0X1 Subject Matter Experts (SMEs)
inputs. Individuals must complete the initial skills course to be awarded AFSC 4M031.

5.1.1. Job Qualification Training. Upon arrival at their initial duty station apprentice Airman
are assigned to a reporting official. Career Development Course (CDC) 4M051 is started by the
trainee at the end of the orientation period and the trainee begins the formal task certification
process. Though individual units have their preferred ways of conducting this training the
recommended way of doing the training is for the trainee to be assigned to different sections
within an Aerospace and Operational Physiology Training Flight, (preferably the section that
corresponds to the volume being studied in the CDC.) The trainee then works under the
supervision of the trainer who is responsible for teaching the trainee all tasks associated with
that particular section. The amount of time required varies from section to section based on the
complexity of the tasks assigned to that section. In addition to learning section specific tasks
and knowledge, the trainee receives common core tasks training such as operating the altitude
chamber.

5.1.2. For the 3-level trainee there are additional task and knowledge requirements if they are
assigned to a MAJCOM with a specialized function such as Air Education and Training
Command programs. Another special program is High Altitude Reconnaissance Mission
Support (HARMS) located at Beale AFB, CA. In both of these instances, the MAJCOM or base
has extensive task and knowledge training requirements that the 3-level trainee will be trained
in. Some units are equipped with operational hyperbaric medical treatment chambers. Upgrade
training in this area is a part of the overall 5-level upgrade training program of those units
equipped with operational treatment chambers. Once a year, hyperbaric instructors will go to
Kadena AB, JA to train those individuals that need training.

5.1.3. Normal practice is for the trainer to issue one volume of the CDC to the trainee and allow
the trainee to work on a self-paced study program to complete the CDC volume. Each volume
must be completed within 30 days IAW AFI 36-2201. Once the trainee has completed the
volume, a Unit Review Exercise (URE) is administered. If the trainee passes the URE, the
trainer issues another volume, and the process is repeated with the remaining volumes. Once
all volumes are completed, the trainee is given a course examination that covers all the
information presented in the five volumes of CDC. Once the trainee passes the course exam,
the knowledge portion of the 5-level upgrade process is considered complete. To receive the 5-
skill level the trainee must complete all core task certification requirements for the assigned
base or MAJCOM, plus 12 months in Upgrade Training (UGT). The trainee must also be
recommended by the supervisor for award of the 5-skill level. This process provides for an
Airman to be awarded the 5-skill level at 12 months time on station. Retrainees only need 9
months in upgrade training.

5.1.4. From this point on, Airmen are expected to continue to upgrade both their skills and
career knowledge as they prepare for promotion to staff sergeant. This upgrade process
consists of both self study and OJT; that is studying technical orders that relate to the various


                                                 10
training devices, oxygen equipment technical orders, and other technical data listed as
references in your STS and CDC. Remember: The CDC provides only a general overview.
For detailed, up-to-date information, the current instruction and technical data used by your unit
are your primary sources of technical information and must be reviewed to stay current and
technically proficient.

5.2. Journeyman (5) Level. As a 5-level, individuals should be pursuing additional formal
training and off-duty education. Some of the suggested formal training individuals should attend
are combat, water, and arctic survival schools; the Army Airborne (Parachutist) Course at Ft
Benning, GA (Note: AM 490, Basic Parachuting at the Air Force Academy is still a valid training
course; however, it will not qualify an individual for the operational parachuting that occurs at
several units), AETC Basic Instructor Course, an Emergency Medical Technician Course (either
through your local medical facility or through off-duty education), and any other courses that
enhance your basic skills such as Cardiopulmonary Instructor, computer operation classes for
different programs, base level supply courses, and any other job related courses available on
your base. Off duty education should concentrate on completing courses listed for the
Community College of the Air Force Associate Degree. As a 5-skill level, you may also have
the opportunity to work in one of several different special functions of the Aerospace and
Operational Physiology career field. These special functions are:

5.2.1. High Altitude Airdrop Mission Support (HAAMS): This is normally an additional
tasking assigned to specific units which involves flying on various aircraft platforms as a
physiological observer for the aircrew, High Altitude Parachutists (HAP), and additional
passengers. In this capacity, you perform duties very similar to that performed as an inside
observer on altitude chamber flights but with additional responsibility for monitoring and
operating the specialized oxygen systems used for such missions. Training for this mission
consists of aircraft life support training for the specific aircraft you will fly in and either hands-on
training on specialized oxygen systems or formal training conducted by the manufacturer of
such equipment. Training for HAAMS mission is IAW AFI 11-409, High Altitude Airdrop Mission
Support.

5.2.2. High Altitude Reconnaissance Mission Support (HARMS): This support mission will
assign you to the Physiological Support Squadron (PSPTS), Beale AFB, CA, and the USAF Full
Pressure Suit Depot. Airmen are responsible for the upkeep and maintenance of all USAF
pressure suit assemblies. This includes minor repair, pre/post-flight, periodic, annual, and
PSPTS overhaul inspections. After a Full Pressure Suit Assembly (FPSA) is ready for flight,
PSPTS technicians integrate the pilot into the FPSA, checking for correct inflation and leak
parameters, and then integrate the pilot into a U-2 aircraft. Other duties include
parachute/survival kit upload/download into and out of the aircraft. Specialized technicians are
assigned to the oxygen equipment section where helmet regulators and suit controllers are
maintained using altitude simulating test stands to ensure their utmost reliability.

5.2.3. Research: This special duty assignment allows selected individuals to join the Crew
Technology Division of the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) at Brooks City-Base, TX.
Duties include participation in various research protocols conducted with volunteer subjects.
This may include centrifuge operations, high altitude protection research, cockpit and equipment
integration, and thermal protection.

5.2.4. Centrifuge: This duty consists of a training program for fighter aircrews conducted at
AFRL at Brooks City-Base, TX. Both programs are designed to increase the awareness of the
physiological problems of the high-G environment and how to counteract them.


                                                   11
5.2.5. USAF School of Aerospace Medicine: This special duty assignment allows selected
individuals to perform instructor duties as technical training instructors ―T‖ prefix position and/or
the Career Development Course (CDC) writer. For selection to this job, the individual should
possess an Associate degree or higher or be within one year of obtaining their degree. Once
selected technicians will attend Basic Instructor Course (BIC). Duties performed are primarily
supporting AFSC awarding courses such as the 4M031 apprentice, flight nurses, air evacuation
technicians, and flight surgeons.

5.2.6. Professional Military Education (PME): One school that must be completed before a
member can progress beyond the 5-level is the Airman Leadership School (ALS), which must
be completed before being promoted to Staff Sergeant (SSgt). ALS is approximately four
weeks long and usually requires in-residence completion. The school emphasizes supervisor
and leadership learning to prepare the member for those additional responsibilities they will
perform when they are promoted to SSgt.

5.3. Craftsman (7) Level. Many variables come into account for a Senior Airman to be
promoted to SSgt that cannot be fully discussed in this document. Once selected for promotion
to SSgt, 12 months in UGT, and completion of advanced formal training (Craftsman and Human
Performance Enhance courses), individuals may receive their 7-level. Individuals in normal
UGT are eligible to attend the formal resident courses immediately after being selected to SSgt
and completing the course prerequisite on this website: https://kx.afms.mil/usafsam_ap.
Supervisors should direct SSgt selects to do the required prerequisite for both formal courses.

5.3.1. Individuals in 7-level retraining are eligible to attend the formal course after 6 months if
all other requirements are met. These individuals must complete 6 months in upgrade training,
attend the Craftsman and the Human Performance Enhancement courses for award of the 7-
level. These formal courses are conducted at Wright Patterson AFB, OH. They emphasize
knowledge in advanced physiology, unit management, and other selected subjects designed to
qualify the SSgt to teach advanced courses and become actively involved in unit management
and human performance.

5.3.2. At this point in a career, the SSgt becomes a direct supervisor who must perform the
tasks of coach and teacher to subordinates. As a fully qualified craftsman, the SSgt becomes
the expert in a work area. The SSgt is considered the resident expert in their particular work
section. Whether it is a launch supervisor at Beale AFB, CA responsible for all facets of
keeping the pilot mission capable or as the NCOIC of maintenance responsible for keeping the
altitude chamber ready for use. In order to progress, the SSgt will have knowledge of how the
individual sections of a unit function to meet their primary mission. As the 3-level should rotate
through each section, so should the new SSgt as part of the upgrade process.

5.3.3. Career progression beyond the SSgt rank consists primarily of increasing supervision
and management responsibilities within the Aerospace and Operational Physiology flight while
still performing most of the core tasks performed at the 5-level. As a Technical Sergeant (TSgt),
the member is most likely in charge of an element with supervisory responsibilities for two or
more subsections. An example of this could be, NCOIC of Logistics with the Supply and
Maintenance sections subordinate. In the special mission area of HARMS the TSgt is typically
the team chief for deployed HARMS, teams and as such is responsible for five to six people and
all of the equipment needed to launch and recover the HARMS aircraft. During the period
before promotion to Master Sergeant (MSgt), the TSgt will have to complete an in-residence
course at the Noncommissioned Officers Academy. This is a six-week course of Professional


                                                 12
Military Education that emphasizes leadership training and human resource management that
prepares the member to perform at the superintendent level. The TSgt should also seek
updates on equipment used and courses taught by the career field through self-study and
military technical training or civilian formal education. Once promoted to MSgt, the member
would normally be assigned duty as NCOIC. In this capacity the member would be responsible
for the day to day management. Depending on the manning of the Aerospace and Operational
Physiology Flight and its mission, the MSgt may be subordinate to a Senior Master Sergeant
(SMSgt) or a Chief Master Sergeant (CMSgt) who would have overall management
responsibilities of the enlisted personnel with the duty title of Superintendent/Manager. All
SNCOs may be selected to serve in other special leadership roles within their organization such
as squadron superintendent. In addition and depending on the MAJCOM, SNCOs may be
selected to serve as MAJCOM Functional Manager. As a supervisor/manager the duties of the
top three grades vary in their scope of responsibility. SNCOs must have their CCAF degree in
order to receive Senior Rater endorsement on performance reports.

5.3.4. Aerospace and Operational Physiology Team (AOPT). Personnel stationed at
Human Performance location must have their 7-level. Eager individuals at operational bases
that possess 5-level can participate. AOPT member may provide local life support and wing
safety consultation on theater specific human performance issues. AOPT may develop human
performance related threat briefs specific to the theater of operation, based on local intelligence
analysis, weather, and other operational/environmental conditions to increase mission
effectiveness. There are many other diverse duties that depend on unit missions. Personnel
stationed at Human Performance locations that have completed all 7-level UGT requirements
are not required to have/develop a Master Training Plan.

5.4. Superintendent (9) Level. To be awarded AFSC 4M091, an individual must be a SMSgt.
SMSgt selects will attend the Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA). CMSgt selects will attend the
Chief Master Sergeant Leadership School.

5.4.1. A SMSgt may have both the responsibility of Superintendent and the additional duty of
MAJCOM Functional Manager. In order to be promoted to the grade of CMSgt, a SMSgt must
have completed in resident SNCOA. No advanced technical training is required.

5.4.2. The Air Force Enlisted Career Field Manager (AFCFM) is a CMSgt in the career field.
This individual has the responsibility of writing the CFETP, reviewing and updating periodically,
working with the technical training school superintendent to insure technical training is meeting
the needs of the career field, and with the Career Development Course authors to update CDC
material to meet the ever changing needs of the career field. The Career Field Manager is also
the waiver authority for all questions concerning personnel who fail to meet upgrade standards.
CMSgt selects will attend CMSgt Leadership course.

6. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Aerospace and Operational
Physiology Specialty career field. The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how
to meet the training requirements. The strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce
duplication of training and eliminate a disjointed approach to training. The training decisions for
4M0X1 career field were made during the 2-6 November 2009 Utilization and Training
Workshop (U&TW).

6.1. Initial Skills Training. The initial skills course (The Aerospace and Operational
Physiology Apprentice Course) was revised to provide trainees with a broad spectrum of the


                                                13
career field and to meet new training requirements set by the 2-6 November 2009 U&TW. New
training requirements will include knowledge of AFSO21. Also, ROBD and 20/P mask
breakdown class are new STS items for the course.

6.2. Five Level Upgrade Training Requirements. The 4M051 CDC has recently been
published in 2009.

6.3. Seven Level Upgrade Training Requirements. The advanced skills course
requirements provide SSgts the skills and knowledge necessary to become craftsmen. A one-
week course is conducted by USAFSAM at Wright Patterson AFB, OH. Course prerequisites
are located on the USAFSAM website. Once the prerequisites are completed individuals slotted
for the craftsman course may attend. To obtain 7-level requirements, individual must have a
minimum 12 months in upgrade training. NOTE: retrainees only require 6 months in upgrade
training, successful completion of Aerospace and Operational Physiology Craftsman and the
Human Performance Enhancement in-resident courses. The Human Performance
Enhancement course is another mandatory 7-level requirement. Anyone within the career field
can attend the Human Performance Enhancement course. It is also available to USAF and
DOD members outside of our career field on a space available basis.

6.4. Proficiency Training. All Aerospace and Operational Physiology personnel are highly
encouraged to attend the following formal schools. Airborne Parachutist (course number L9AZA
1XXXX 0A1A), a three-week long static line parachuting course conducted at Ft Benning, GA.
Military Freefall Parachutist (course number L9AZA 1XXXX OFIA), a military freefall school that
is five weeks long conducted at Yuma Proving Grounds, AZ/Ft Bragg, NC. Combat Survival
(course number S-V80-A) a 17-day basic survival course conducted at Fairchild AFB, WA.
Arctic Survival (course number S-V87-A) a five-day long course conducted at Eielson AFB, AK.
Water Survival (course number S-V86-A) a four-day water survival course currently conducted
at Pensacola Naval Air Station, FL. Personnel are also encouraged to attend the courses in
Section D. paragraph 10. Personnel wishing to increase their knowledge of the oxygen
equipment used on HAAMS missions should take the Oxygen Orientation Course given by the
Carleton Technologies Inc, located at Orchard Park, NY. This four-day course covers the
history, care, use/theory of operation, inspection, troubleshooting and storage of HAP oxygen
equipment.

7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon
completion of basic military training. CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate in
Applied Sciences Degree. In addition to its associates degree program, CCAF offers the
following:

7.1. Occupational Instructor Certification. The Community College of the Air Force offers
the Occupational Instructor Certification to instructors teaching full time in a CCAF affiliated
school. To qualify, instructors must complete a 3 semester hour Instructor Methodology course,
a 12 semester hour Teaching Internship, have two years teaching experience from date of
Teaching Internship completion, hold an associate or higher degree, and be recommended by
their commander/commandant. This is only available for instructors assigned to USAFSAM,
Brooks City-Base, TX.

7.2. Degree Requirements. All Airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program.
The following degree requirements refer specifically to the Aerospace Physiology Technology
degree as listed in the 2008-2010 CCAF Catalog. Prior to completing an Associate degree, the
5-level must be awarded and the following requirements must be met:


                                               14
                                                                                                           Semester Hours
Technical Education .. ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... ...................... 24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies ....... ........... .......... ........... ...................... 6
Physical Education .... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... ...................... 4
General Education .... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... ...................... 15
Program Elective....... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... ...................... 15
         Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and Military
         Studies; or General Education
Total............………...……………….………. ……… ……………… ……….………....…….. 64
7.2.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of
technical core subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied from
technical core/technical elective subjects/courses. Request to substitute comparable courses or
to exceed specified semester hour values in any subject/course must be approved in advance.

Technical Core
Subjects/Courses                                                                                Maximum Semester Hours

Aerospace Anatomy & Physiology Fundamentals……………………………………………. 3
CCAF Internship ....... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... ...................... 18
Clinical Research ...... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... ...................... 3
Hyperbaric Chamber Operations …………… .......... ........... .......... ........... ...................... 3
Hyperbaric Physiology and Therapy. ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... ...................... 3
Instructional Methodology ..... .......... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... ...................... 6
Introduction to Aerospace Physiology ......... .......... ........... .......... ........... ...................... 3
Life-Support Equipment Systems ..... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... ...........………. 6
Physiological Training Management. ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... ...................... 12
Respiratory and Circulatory Physiology ........ .......... ........... .......... ........... ...................... 3
Survival Training ....... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... ...................... 6

Technical Electives
Subjects/Courses                                                                                Maximum Semester Hours

Computer Science .... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... ......................      6
Emergency Medicine. ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... ......................        3
General Biology ........ ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... ......................   4
General Chemistry .... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... ......................     8
Guidance and Counseling ..... .......... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... ......................          3
Human Anatomy and Physiology ..... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... ......................                4
Medical Readiness .... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... ......................     3
Practice Teaching ..... ........... ….. ..... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... ......................     3

7.2.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Professional
military education, civilian management courses accepted in transfer and/or by testing credit.

7.2.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of
Basic Military Training.

7.2.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
application of courses to the general education requirement and agree with the definitions of
applicable General Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF General Catalog.


                                                                    15
Subjects/Courses
                                                                          Semester Hours

Oral Communication……………………………………. ......... ......... ........... ........................3
       Speech
Written Communication …………………………………………………………………………...3
       English Composition
Mathematics ………………………………………………………………………………………..3
       Intermediate algebra or a college-level mathematics course satisfying delivering
       institution’s mathematics graduation requirement—if an acceptable mathematics course
       applies as technical or program elective, you may substitute a natural science course for
       mathematics
Social Science ……………………………………………………………………………………..3
       Anthropology, Archaeology, Economics, Geography, Government, History,
       Political Science, Psychology, Sociology
Humanities ………………………………………………………………………………………….3
       Fine Arts (Criticism, Appreciation, Historical Significance), Foreign
       Language, Literature, Philosophy, Religion

7.2.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Courses applying to technical education,
Leadership Management and Military Studies or general education requirements; natural
science courses meeting general education requirement application criteria; foreign language
credit earned at Defense Language Institute or through the Defense Language Proficiency Test;
maximum nine semester hours of CCAF degree-applicable technical course credit otherwise not
applicable to program of enrollment.

7.3.    The Instructor of Technology and Military Science (ITMS) degree program is available to
the 4M0X1 career field personnel who are assigned or previously assigned to an instructor “T”
prefix at USAFSAM. Applicants must complete three semester hours of CCAF approved
instructor methodology coursework and hold their career field related CCAF degree or
equivalent civilian college degree before registration. If the instructor methodology credit
earned in the apprentice course is applied to the Aerospace Physiology Technology degree, it
cannot be used for the ITMS degree. Technicians have the option of using the credits for this
course in either of the two degrees available. The journeyman (5) level (or fully qualified
equivalent) must be held at the time of program completion. Registrants must complete the
program within two years from initial date of registration and have a documented 12 semester
(180 contact hours) CCAF Teaching Internship transcribed. Twenty four semester hours to
include a minimum of 12 semester hours of technical core subjects or courses must be applied
and the remaining semester hours applied from technical core or technical elective subjects or
courses. Requests to substitute comparable courses or to exceed specified semester hour
values in any subject or course must be approved in advance.

7.4. Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is encouraged for all. Individuals
desiring to become an instructor should be actively pursuing an Associate degree. A degreed
faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges and
Schools.




                                               16
              8. Enlisted Career Field Path




                                        Enlisted Career Pyramid
                                                                                            CMSAF          Professional Development
                                                                                                           CMSgt Leadership Course
                                                                                                          Senior Leader Development
                                                                                      f
                                                                                         CFM CCM
                                                                                   hie    CIP/Nom                   (AFSLMO)
                                                                                 -C
                                                                                     PME Commandant
                                                                                                          Air Staff CFM Indoc Course
                                                                               r


                                                                                     Obj Asgn/Crossflow
                                                                             ge



                                                                                  Developmental Experience     CMSgt Orientation
                                                                           na




                                                                                        NAF/HQ USAF             CCM Orientation
                                                                         Ma




                                                                                    MAJCOM Lead/Joint/AEF
                                                                           -
9 Level




                                                                        nt
                                                                      de
                                                           tio erinten




                                                                               Supervisory Skill Upgrade (9-Level)
                                                 Ed ief - Su es




                                                                                Developmental Experience
                                                                                                                      Professional Development
                                                                p
                                                               l




                                                                                   NAF/MAJCOM/HQ USAF
                                                              n
                                                      t C r ro




                                                                                      MAJCOM Junior                        SNCO Academy
                                                                                        Joint/AEF                            PE Seminar
                                                /Fl ade


                                                      uca
                                                         h




                                                                                   Broadening Experience
                                                                                                                     Re

                                                                                 Special Duty: First Sergeant,
                                                  Le
                                                   igh




                                                                               ALS Flight Chief, PME Instructor,
  7 Level




                                                                                                                     tra


                                                                                   Military Training Leader
                                             ion




                                                                                                                        inin
                                          ect




                                                                                Upgrade Training (7-Level)                       Professional Development
                                        -S




                                                                                                                             g




                                                                                     CCAF Degree                                      NCO Academy
                                    OIC




                                                                                                                                        PE Seminar
                                                                                Broadening Experience
                                  NC




                                                                                 Special Duty: Recruiter,
   5 Level




                                                                                                                                       Professional Development
                                    -




                                                                                      PME Instructor,
                                 or




                                                                                Military Training Instructor                           Airman Leadership School
                             rvis
                           pe




                                                                                                                                          Professional Development
                         Su




                                                                           CDC/OJT Upgrade Training (5-Level)
    3 Level




                                                                                                                                          First Term Airmen Center
                                                                          Technical Training School(s) (3-Level)
                                                                                                                                            Basic Military Training

               AB




                                                                                                      17
 8.1. Enlisted Career Path

                                                                  GRADE REQUIREMENTS
Education and Training Requirements                                                                       High
                                                                          Average          Earliest
                                                       Rank                                              Year of
                                                                          Sew-on           Sew-on
                                                                                                         Tenure
     Basic Military Training School
                                                                         6 months
      Apprentice Technical School             Amn
              (3-skill level)                                            16 months
                                              A1C
         Upgrade to Journeyman
               (5-skill level)
- Minimum 12 months OJT
- Minimum 9 months OJT for retrainees                                     3 years        28 months      10 years
-Complete CDC 4M051                           SrA
    Airman Leadership School (ALS)                                           Trainer
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time in        - Qualified and certified on tasks to be trained
service or SSgt select                        - Attend Air Force Training course
-Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
SSgt sew on (Active Duty only)
          Upgrade to Craftsman
               (7-skill level)
- Minimum rank of SSgt
- Minimum 12 months OJT;                                                 4.4 years         3 years      20 years
- Minimum 6 months OJT for retrainees         SSgt
- Complete appropriate courses
                                                                           Certifier
                                              - Possess at least the rank of SSgt with a 5-skill level or civilian
                                              equivalent
                                              - Attend Air Force Training course
                                              - Capable of evaluating the task
                                              - Be a person other than the trainer
  Noncommissioned Officer Academy                                       11.5 years        5 years         22 years
- Must be a TSgt, MSgt Selectee, or MSgt
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for   TSgt
MSgt sew-on (Active Duty only)

                                                                         17.2 years        8 years      24 years
                                              MSgt
  USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)
- Must be a MSgt, SMSgt or SMSgt
selectee
-Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
SMSgt sew-on (Active Duty only)                                          19.2 years       11 years      26 years
                                              SMSgt
Upgrade to Superintendent (9-skill level)
- Minimum rank of SMSgt
- Supervisor recommendation
   Chief Master Sergeant Leadership
                 Course                                                  21.2 years       14 years      30 years

-Must be a CMSgt or CMSgt selectee            CMSgt

                                                      18
8.2. 4M0X1 Career Field Pyramid




                                                                                                     ief
                                                                                                       h
                                                                                                             Specialty Development




                                                                                                   r/C
                                                                                                              Advanced Degree




                                                                                                 ge
                                                                                                               Advanced Management Training




                                                                                               na
                                                                                             Ma
                                                                                                       CMSgt    Aerospace Physiology Corporate Board




                                                                                         t–
                                                                                        en
                                                                                                    4M0X1 CFM

                                                                                        nd
                                                                                     nte
                                                                                             Group Superintendent
                                                                                 eri
4M091




                                                                             up
                                                                                –S




                                                                                         Specialty Upgrade (9-Level)      Specialty Development
                                                                               s
                                                                            ief




                                                                                                                            Utilization and Training Workshop
                                                       ole
                                                                         Ch




             21.2 Yrs                                                                    Developmental Experience            Aerospace Physiology Corporate Board
                                                     rR
                                                                      ht




                                                                                        MAJCOM Functional Manager             Specialty Knowledge Test Writer (SME)
                                                  nto
                                                           lig

                                                                    n




                                                                                                                                 2nd CCAF Degree/Bachelors Degree
                                                               t io
                                                       n /F




                                                                                       Career Broadening Experience
                                             Me




                                                                                                                                  Civilian Personnel Management Training


                                                                                                                          Ex
                                                                                                                          Ex
                                                                                                                          Exp
                                                           uc a
                                                      tio




                                                                                         Squadron Superintendent


                                                                                                                           x e
                                                                                                                                   1st Sgt Academy Additional Duty Symposium
                                          er-




             17.2 Yrs
                                                    ec




                                                                                       Additional Duty First Sergeant

                                                                                                                             eri
                                                                                                                              ei
                                                                                                                              e iie
                                                        Ed
4M071




                                        ad
                                                  –S
                                       Le




                                                                                                                                    nc
                                                                                                                                    n e
                                                                                                                                    n e
                                              O IC




                                                            AP Craftsman Course/OJT Upgrade Training (7-Level)                                  Specialty Development
                                                            Enlisted Human Performance Enhancement (7-Level)                           eT
                                                                                                                                       e-T           Basic Instructor Course
                                             NC




                                                                   AP Technology/Instructor CCAF Degree
                                                                                                                                         Ta
                                                                                                                                         Tra
             11.5 Yrs                                                                                                                      an
                                                                                                                                           ain        Human Factors/CRM/SE Training
                                        r–




                                                                                                                                                       Life Support Equipment Training
                                                                                                                                             nin
                                                                     Career Broadening Experience
                                       iso




                                                                      Technical Training Instructor                                                     Military Free Fall Parachutist
                                                                                                                                                 g
                                                                                                                                                 g
                                  erv




                                                                                                                                                 g
4M051




             4.4 Yrs                                               Human Performance Training Team                                                        Hyperbaric Chamber Training
                                   p




                                                        High Altitude Airdrop/Reconnaissance Mission Support
                                Su




                                                              Centrifuge, Research, Hyperbaric Medicine
                           r–
                          ine




             36/28 Mos                                       4M051 CDC/OJT Upgrade Training (5-Level)                                                        Specialty Development
                         Tra




                                                                                                                                                              Basic Army Airborne
4M031




                                                        Aerospace Physiology (AP) Apprentice Course (3-Level)
             16 Mos                                                                                                                                            Combat Survival Training
                                                                         Career Broadening Experience: AETC-UPT
             6 Mos                                                                                                                                              Water/Arctic Survival Training
                                                                                                                                                                 HAAMS Intro Course
        AB




                                                                                                           19
                        Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements

9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of tasks
and knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for
each skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry,
award and retention of each skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements
are identified in the STS at Part II, Sections A and B of this CFETP.
10. Specialty Qualification Requirements. This information is located in the official specialty
description in Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD).

10.1. Apprentice Level Training Requirements.

10.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge of anatomy and physiology, physiological effects of flight,
emergency medical care, techniques of operating and maintaining aerospace and operational
physiology devices, using and fitting flying equipment, instructional methods, and examination
procedures is mandatory.

10.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school courses in biology
and chemistry are desirable.

10.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 4M031, completion of the following training is mandatory:
a basic aerospace and operational physiology course and principles of aerospace and
operational physiology instruction.

10.1.4. Experience. Experience in functions such as operating and maintaining aerospace
and operational physiology training devices and fitting, maintaining, or inspecting oxygen and
personal flying equipment.

10.1.5. Other. Clear voice without speech impediments. Physical qualification for aircrew duty
according to AFI 48-123V3 Medical Examinations and Standards.

10.1.6. Training Sources/Resources. The AFSC 4M031 is awarded upon successful
completion of the Aerospace and Operational Physiology Apprentice (APA) Course
(B3ABY4M031-0A1B). This course provides knowledge and basic skills to perform entry-level
duties as an enlisted aerospace and operational physiology apprentice. Training includes basic
facts and terms about aerospace and operational physiology, physiology fundamentals,
operation of hypobaric chambers and supporting equipment, other physiological training
devices, personal life support equipment, administrative procedures of physiological training,
aircraft emergency escape, cabin pressurization, and briefings on specialized aspects of
MAJCOM aerospace and operational physiology programs. The 9-week APA Course includes
a 2-day Basic Expeditionary Medical Readiness Training (BEMRT) block.

10.1.7. Implementation. The Aerospace and Operational Physiology Apprentice course
(B3ABY4M031-0A1B) is a requirement for the award of the AFSC 4M031.

10.2. Journeyman Level Training Requirements.

10.2.1. Specialty Qualification. Entry into 5-level UGT is initiated after the individual has
completed the technical training requirements and in-processed at their gaining unit.

                                                20
10.2.2. Knowledge. Knowledge of anatomy and physiology, physiological effects of flight,
emergency medical care, techniques of operating and maintaining aerospace physiology
devices, using and fitting flying equipment, instructional methods, and examination procedures
is mandatory.

10.2.3. Education. Experience in functions such as operating and maintaining aerospace and
operational physiology training devices or fitting, maintaining, or inspecting oxygen and personal
flying equipment. Experience is also required in instructing and examining trainees.

10.2.4. Training. Qualification consists of completing all STS core tasks, and the 4M051 CDC
for their assigned duty position and any other duty position requirements identified by the
supervisor. A minimum of 12 months OJT is required for upgrade. For retrainees a minimum of
9 months OJT is required.

10.2.5. Experience. Experience in functions such as operating and maintaining physiological
training devices, or fitting, maintaining, or inspecting oxygen and personal flying equipment.

10.2.6. Other. Clear voice without speech impediments. Physical qualification for aircrew duty
according to AFI 48-123V3 Medical Examinations and Standards.

10.2.7. Training Sources/Resources. AFSC 4M051 is awarded upon successful completion
of the upgrade training program to include CDC and on the job training and recommendation of
the individual’s supervisor.

10.3. Craftsman Level Training Requirements.

10.3.1. Specialty Qualification.

10.3.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge of anatomy and physiology, physiological effects of flight,
emergency medical care, techniques of operating and maintaining aerospace and operational
physiology devices, using and fitting flying equipment, instructional methods, and examination
procedures is mandatory.

10.3.1.2. Education. To assume the grade of SSgt the individual must be a graduate of the
Airman Leadership School (ALS).

10.3.1.3. Training. Entry into UGT is initiated when an individual possesses the 5-skill level
and is selected to the grade of SSgt. Qualification training is initiated anytime an individual is
assigned duties they are not qualified to perform. The Craftsman and Human Performance
course are the two in residence courses that must be completed to be awarded the 7-skill level.

10.4.   Superintendent Level Training Requirements.

10.4.1. Specialty Qualification.

10.4.1.1. Knowledge. Individuals must possess advanced skills and knowledge of concepts
and principles in the management of aerospace and operational physiology training programs
and budgeting.



                                                21
10.4.1.2. Education. A superintendent/manager should have earned a career field related
associate or higher degree.

10.4.1.3. Training. Individuals should be graduates of the USAF Senior NCO Academy
(SNCOA) in-residence and/or correspondence course.

10.4.1.4. Experience. Experience managing functions such as operating and maintaining
aerospace and operational physiology devices, administering tests to physiological trainees, or
instructing in physiological training.

10.4.1.5. Other. Clear voice without speech impediments. Physical qualification for aircrew
duty according to AFMAN 48-123 Medical Examinations and Standards.

10.4.2. Training Sources/Resources. The upgrading personnel must currently have the AFSC
of 4M071, be in the grade of Senior Master Sergeant (E-8) or above.

                              Section D - Resource Constraints

11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints which preclude
optimal/desired training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost
and manpower. Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement
describing what effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section
are actions required, office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource
constraints will be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

12. Apprentice Level Training Constraints. There currently no resource constraints at the 3-
skill level.

13. Five Level Training Constraints. There currently no resource constraints at the 5-skill
level.

14. Seven Level Training Constraints. There currently no resource constraints at the 7-skill
level.

                           Section E - Transitional Training Guide


THERE ARE CURRENTLY NO TRANSITION TRAINING REQUIREMENTS. THIS AREA IS
RESERVED.




                                                22
PART II

                           Section A – Specialty Training Standard

1. Implementation. The STS provided by USAFSAM will be used for technical training starting
13 June 2011. Training documentation will be accomplished in the web-based Air Force
Training Record (AFTR), accessible from the AF Portal (via the Advanced Distributed Learning
System link).

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, this STS includes:

2.1. Column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference). The most common tasks,
knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for Airman to perform duties in the 3-, 5-
and 7-skill level.

2.2. Column 2 (Core task/wartime task). Identifies those tasks determined to be ―Core
Tasks‖ for both 5-, and 7-skill levels. Wartime task requirements are identified by a (R).
Wartime task requirements apply to personnel assigned to Unit Type Code FFQBB and/or in
HAAMS upgrade training. Personnel in UGT to the 5-skill level must be trained and certified on
all tasks with a ―5‖. Personnel in UGT to the 7-skill level must be trained and certified on all
tasks annotated with a ―7‖.

2.3. Column 3 (Formal training and correspondence course requirements). This area
shows the proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on
the task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course. See
AFIADL/AFSC/CDC listing maintained by the unit training manager for current CDC listings.

2.4. Column 4 (Certification for OJT). Is used to record completion of tasks and knowledge
training requirements. Use automated training management systems to document technician
qualifications, if available. Task certification must show a certification or completion date. (As a
minimum for all core tasks, use the following column designators: Training Complete, Trainee,
Trainer Initials, and Certifier Initials.)

2.5. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to
indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and the CDCs.

2.6. Job Qualification Standard. The STS becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-
the-job training when placed in AF Form 623, Individual Training Record, and used according
to AFI 36-2201. For OJT, the tasks in column 1 are trained and qualified to the go/no go level.
"Go" means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets local
requirements for accuracy, timeliness, and correct procedures. When used as a JQS, the
following requirements apply:

2.6.1. Documentation of initial training. In the new electronic Air Force Training Record
(AFTR) program ensure to complete the following: Training Start, Training Complete, Trainee
Initials, Trainer Initials, and Certifier Initials.


2.6.2. Decertification and Recertification. When a supervisor determines an Airman is
disqualified on a task previously certified for their duty position, the supervisor deletes



                                                 23
certification in AFTR. Appropriate remarks pertaining to the reason for decertification are
entered on the AF Form 623a.

2.6.3. Training Standard. Tasks are trained and qualified to the ―go‖ or ―no go‖ level. Go
means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meet local demands for
accuracy, timeliness, and correct use of procedures.

2.7. Specialty Training Standard. Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the
Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are
developed at the USAF Occupational Measurement Squadron by SNCOs with extensive
practical experience in their career fields. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter
areas judged by test development team members as most appropriate for promotion to higher
grades. Questions are based upon study references listed in the WAPS study catalog.

3. Recommendations. Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates to
(USAFSAM, 2507 Kennedy Circle, Brooks City-Base, TX 78235-5116.) Reference this STS and
identify the specific area of concern (paragraph, training standard element, etc.)


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE

OFFICIAL




                                                     CHARLES B. GREEN
                                                     Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
                                                     Surgeon General




                                                24
      Attachment 1.
                          THIS BLOCK IS FOR IDENTIFICATION PURPOSES ONLY
TRAINEE’S NAME (LAST, FIRST, MI)                             INITIALS (WRITTEN)                SSAN (LAST 4)

           PRINTED NAME OF CERTIFYING AND TRAINING OFFICIAL WITH WRITTEN INITIALS
N/I                                         N/I

N/I                                                          N/I

N/I                                                          N/I

N/I                                                          N/I

N/I                                                          N/I

                                         QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                PROFICIENCY CODE KEY
                           SCALE VALUE    DEFINITION: The Individual
                                1         Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task.
                                          (EXTREMELY LIMITED)
                                2         Can do most parts of the task. Needs help only on hardest parts. (PARTIALLY
  TASK PERFORMANCE                        PROFICIENT)
        LEVELS                  3         Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (COMPETENT)
                                4         Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the
                                          task. (HIGHLY PROFICIENT)
                                a         Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (NOMENCLATURE)
                                b         Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (PROCEDURES)
  *TASK KNOWLEDGE               c         Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
       LEVELS                             (OPERATING PRINCIPLES)
                                d         Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (ADVANCED THEORY)

                                A         Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (FACTS)

                                B         Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject.
**SUBJECT KNOWLEDGE                       (PRINCIPLES)
       LEVELS                   C         Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (ANALYSIS)

                                D         Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (EVALUATION)

                                                    -EXPLANATIONS-
      *    Task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a
           level of knowledge for a specific task. (Examples b and 1b)

      **   A subject knowledge scale is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly
           related to any specific task, or for a subject common to several tasks.

      -    This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the
           course

      5 This mark identifies core task for the 5-skill level, these task requirements must be certified.

      7 This mark identifies core task for the 7-skill level, these task requirements must be certified.

      R This mark identifies a War Skills task.




                                                                25
                                        2.      3. Proficiency Codes                4. Certification for OJT
                                        Core/   Used to Indicate Training
                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical       War-       A         B          C              A          B            C        D           E
References                              time     3 Skill   5 Skill        7 Skill
                                                 Level     Level          Level
                                        Tasks                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                Course      CDC           Course      Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials



1.   CAREER LADDER                              TR: AFECD (AF Enlisted Classification Directory); AFI 11-403, Aerospace
                                         5, 7
     PROGRESSION                                Physiology Training Program, 36-2306, The Education Services Program

1.1. The Airman career ladder and
                                                  A         B              B
     educational opportunities

1.2. Progression in career ladder
                                                  A         B              B
     4M0X1

1.3. Duties of AFSC 4M0X1


1.3.1. 4M051                                       B         B              B


1.3.2. 4M091                                       B         B              B

1.4. Mission, organization
     development, and function of the
     medical service and aerospace
     and operational physiology                    A         B              -


2.   AIR FORCE OCCUPATIONAL                     TR: AFI 91-204, Safety Investigation and Reports, 91-301, AFOSH
     SAFETY AND HEALTH                         Program; AFOSHSTD 48-22, Occupational Noise and Hearing Conservation
     (AFOSH) PROGRAM                     5, 7   Program; TO 32-1-101, Use and Care of Hand Tools and Measuring Tools;
                                                National Fire Protection Association (NFPA ) 99, Chapter 20

2.1. Hazards of the 4M0X1 career
                                            
                                                   A         B              -
     field

2.2. AFOSH standards for the 4M0X1
                                                   A         B              -
     career field

2.3. Maintain safe work area                       b         c              -

2.4. Apply safety precautions when
                                        
     working with:

2.4.1. Tools                                       b         c              -

2.4.2. Personnel                                   b         c              -

2.4.3. Equipment                                   b         c              -

2.4.4. Cleaning agents                             b         c              -

2.4.5. Compressed gases                            b         c              -



                                                                     26
                                          2.      3. Proficiency Codes Used           4. Certification for OJT
                                          Core/   to Indicate Training
                                                  Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical         War-        A         B       C                A          B            C        D           E
References                                time     3 Skill   5 Skill        7 Skill
                                                   Level     Level          Level
                                          Tasks                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                  Course     CDC            Course      Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials

                                                  TR: AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel, 36-2502, Airman
                                                  Promotion/Demotion Programs, 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation
3. SUPERVISION                              7
                                                  Systems, 36-2618, The Enlisted Force Structure, 51-202, Nonjudical
                                                  Punishment, AFPAM 36-2241V1, Professional Development Guide
3.1.   Orient new personnel                          -         -              -
3.2.   Assign personnel to duty
                                                     -         -              -
       position
3.3.   Plan work assignments and
       priorities
                                                     -         -              -

3.4.   Schedule work assignments                     -         -              -

3.5.   Establish

3.5.1. Work methods                                  -         -              -

3.5.2. Controls                                      -         -              -

3.5.3. Performance standards                         -         -              -
3.6.   Evaluate work performance of
       subordinate personnel                         -         -              -
3.7.   Resolve technical problems for
       subordinate personnel                         -         -              -
3.8.   Counsel personnel and facilitate
       resolving individual problems                 -         -              -
3.9.   Initiate action to correct
       substandard performance                       -         -              -
3.10. Recommend personnel for
      training                                       -         -              -

4. AEROSPACE & OPERATIONAL                        TR : AFI 38-204, Programming USAF Manpower, 41-120, Medical Resource
   PHYSIOLOGY UNIT                                Operations, 65-601V1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 65-601, Budget
   MANAGEMENT                                     Management for Operations; TO 00-25-107-WA-1 Maintenance Assistance

4.1.   Use Unit Manpower Documents                   -         -             2b

4.2.   Training Allocations                          -         -              B
4.3.   Request Depot Level
                                                     -         -             2b
       Maintenance
4.4.   Developing, Planning, and
                                                     -         -              A
       Programming a unit Budget
4.5.   Inspection Programs                           -         -              A

4.6.   Flight Training Programs                      -         -              B

4.7.   Risk Communication                            -         -              B

4.8.   Deficiency Reporting                          -         -              B



                                                                       27
                                          2.      3. Proficiency Codes                4. Certification for OJT
                                          Core/   Used to Indicate Training
                                                  Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical         War-       A         B          C              A          B            C        D           E
References                                time     3 Skill   5 Skill        7 Skill
                                                   Level     Level          Level
                                          Tasks                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                  Course      CDC           Course      Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials


4.9.   Monthly Report Management                     -         -              B
4.10. Decompression Sickness
                                                     -         -              B
      Management

5. TRAINING                                       TR: AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program
5.1.   Evaluate personnel for training
       needs                                         -         -              -

5.2.   Plan and supervise OJT

5.2.1. Prepare job qualification
                                                     -         -              b
       standards

5.2.2. Conduct training                              -         -              b
5.2.3. Counsel trainees on their
                                                     -         -              b
       progress

5.2.4. Types of Training

5.2.4.1. Career knowledge training                   -                        B

5.2.4.2. Job proficiency training                    -         -              B

5.2.4.3. Qualification training                      -         -              B

5.3. Maintain training records                       -         -              -

5.4. Evaluate effectiveness of training              -         -              -
5.5. Air Force Training Record
                                                     -         -              -
     (AFTR)
5.6. USAF Graduate Evaluation
                                                     -         -              -
      Program TR: AFI 36-2201
                                                  TR: Dorland’s Illustrated Medical Dictionary, current edition, Guytons
                                                  Textbook of Medical Physiology, current edition, Essentials of Anatomy &
6. PHYSIOLOGY FUNDAMENTALS
                                                  Physiology, Marieb, current edition, Ernsting’s Aviation Medicine, current
                                                  edition
6.1. Medical terminology                             B         B              -
6.2. Anatomy & physiology of body
     systems
6.2.1. Skeletal                                      B         -              -

6.2.2. Muscular                                      B         B              -

6.2.3. Nervous                                       B         B              -

6.2.4. Respiratory                                   B         B              -

6.2.5. Circulatory                                   B         B              -



                                                                       28
                                     2.      3. Proficiency Codes                4. Certification for OJT
                                     Core/   Used to Indicate Training
                                             Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical    War-       A         B          C              A          B            C        D           E
References                           time     3 Skill   5 Skill        7 Skill
                                              Level     Level          Level
                                     Tasks                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                             Course      CDC           Course      Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials



6.3. Effects of altitude

6.3.1. Atmospheric characteristics              B         B              -

6.3.2. Gas Laws                                 B         B              -

6.3.3. Hypoxia                                  B         B              -

6.3.4. Hyperventilation                         B         B              -
6.3.5. Mechanical effects of
                                                B         B              -
       pressure change

6.3.6. Decompression Sickness                   B         B              -

6.4. Human Factors

6.4.1. Self-Imposed stressors                   B         B              -

6.4.2. Fatigue                                  B         B              -

6.4.3. Thermal Stress                           B         B              -

6.4.4. Situational Awareness                    B         B              -

6.5. Sensory Physiology

6.5.1. Vision                                   B         B              -

6.5.2. Noise and vibration                      B         B              -

6.5.3. Speed and acceleration                   B         B              -

6.5.4. Spatial disorientation                   B         B              -

6.6. Sensory Illusions

6.6.1. Perform Barany chair
                                                a         c              -
       demonstration
6.6.2. Conduct night vision lab
                                      5,7       b         c              -
       demonstration

7. CHAMBER REACTORS                   5, 7


7.1. Recognize and treat


7.1.1. Hypoxia                                 2b         c              -




                                                                  29
                                        2.      3. Proficiency Codes                4. Certification for OJT
                                        Core/   Used to Indicate Training
                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical       War-       A         B          C              A          B            C        D           E
References                              time     3 Skill   5 Skill        7 Skill
                                                 Level     Level          Level
                                        Tasks                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                Course      CDC           Course      Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials


7.1.2. Hyperventilation                           2b         c              -
7.1.3. Claustrophobia and
                                                  2b         c              -
       apprehension
7.1.4. Mechanical effects of
       pressure change

7.1.4.1. Middle ears                              2b         c              -

7.1.4.2. Sinuses                                  2b         c              -

7.1.4.3. Gastro-Intestinal                        2b         c              -

7.1.4.4. Teeth                                    2b         c              -

7.1.4.5. Lungs                                    2b         c              -

7.1.4.6. Decompression sickness                   2b         c              -

7.1.5. Oxygen paradox                             2b         c              -

7.1.6. Unconscious Reactor                        2b         c              -

7.2. Take and record vital signs

7.2.1. Blood pressure                             2b         c              -

7.2.2. Pulse                                      2b         c              -

7.2.3. Respiration                                2b         c              -
                                                TR: Emergency Care, Brady, current edition, American Heart Association
7.3. BASIC LIFE SUPPORT (BLS)
                                                BLS Provider book, current edition
7.3.1. Perform first responder adult
                                                  3c         -              -
       CPR

7.3.2. Manage adult obstructed airway             3c         -              -
7.3.3. Operate Automated Electronic
                                                  3c         -              -
       Defibrillator
8. AEROSPACE & OPERATIONAL                      TR: AFI 11-403, Aerospace Physiology Training Program, 33-364, Records
   PHYSIOLOGY ADMINISTRATIVE                    Disposition—Procedures and Responsibilities
   FUNCTIONS
8.1. Customer Service                              A          -              -

8.2. Scheduling students to:             5, 7

8.2.1.   11-403 Courses                            A         B              -

8.2.2.   Chamber flights                           A         B              -




                                                                     30
                                             2.      3. Proficiency Codes                4. Certification for OJT
                                             Core/   Used to Indicate Training
                                                     Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical            War-       A         B          C              A          B            C        D           E
References                                   time     3 Skill   5 Skill        7 Skill
                                                      Level     Level          Level
                                             Tasks                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                     Course      CDC           Course      Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials


8.3.     Prepare, maintain, and distribute    5, 7

8.3.1.      AF Form 361, Chamber
                                                        b         b              -
            Reactor/Treatment Record
8.3.2.      AF Form 699, Physiological
                                                        b         b              -
            Training Record
8.3.3.      Physiological Training
                                                        b         c              -
            Monthly Report
8.3.4.      AF Form 702, Individual
            Physiological Training                      b         b              -
            Record
8.3.5.      AF Form 712, Instructor’s
                                                        b         b              -
            Flight/Dive Record
8.3.6.      AF Form 1274, Physiological
                                                        b         b              -
            Training
8.3.7.      AF Form 1373, Document
                                                        b         b              -
            Control log
8.3.8.      DD Form 114, Military Pay
                                                        b         b              -
            Orders
8.3.9.      FAA Form 3150-1,
                                                        b         b              -
            Physiological Training
                                                     TR: AFI 33-364, Records Disposition—Procedures and Responsibilities;
8.4. Use and maintain                                TO 00-5-1-WA-1, USAF Technical Order, 00-5-18-WA-1, USAF Technical
                                                     Order Numbering System

8.4.1.      Files                                       a         b              -

8.4.2.      Publications                                a         b              -

8.4.3.      Technical orders                            b         b              -

8.4.4.      Allowance Standards                         -         -              -
                                                     TR: AFI 11-403, Aerospace Physiology Training Program; TO 43D8-3-1-
                                                     101 , 43D8- 3-2-6, 43D8-3-2-21, 43D8- 3-2-22, Hypobaric Training
9. HYPOBARIC CHAMBER
                                                     Chambers; 15X6-3-13-3, 15X6-4-3-1 Pressure Demand Oxygen Regulator,
                                                     15X6-4-3-1, MA 1 Portable Breathing Oxygen Cylinder and Regulator
9.1. Characteristics and use of
     Hypobaric Chamber                        5, 7      A         B              -

9.2. Perform operational and
    emergency procedures as                   5, 7

9.2.1. Crew chief                                      2b         c              -

9.2.2. Chamber operator                                2b         c              -

9.2.3. Lock operator                                   2b         c              -




                                                                          31
                                        2.      3. Proficiency Codes                4. Certification for OJT
                                        Core/   Used to Indicate Training
                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical       War-       A         B          C              A          B            C        D           E
References                              time     3 Skill   5 Skill        7 Skill
                                                 Level     Level          Level
                                        Tasks                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                Course      CDC           Course      Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials


9.2.4. Recorder                                    b         c              -

9.2.5. Inside observer

9.2.5.1. Chamber                                   b         c              -

9.2.5.2. Lock                                      b         c              -

9.2.6. Lecture Observer                            b         c              -

9.3.   Inspect and maintain Hypobaric
                                          5
       chamber

9.3.1. Hypobaric chamber

9.3.1.1. Daily                                     a         c              -

9.3.1.2. Periodic                                  a         c              -

9.3.1.3. Special                                   a         c              -

9.3.2. Vacuum pump systems                         b         c
                                                TR: TO 15X6-3-13-3, Pressure Demand Oxygen Regulator,
9.3.3. Oxygen systems                           15X6-4-3-1, Type MA-1 Portable Breathing Oxygen Cylinder and
                                                Regulator
9.3.3.1. Connect/Disconnect high
                                                  2b         c              -
         pressure oxygen cylinders
9.3.3.2. Check/Inspect oxygen
                                                   a         c              -
         regulators
9.3.3.3. Remove/Replace high
                                                   a         c              -
         pressure C-1 regulators
9.3.3.4. Remove/Replace
                                                   a         -              -
         oxygen plumbing
9.3.3.5. Remove/Replace oxygen
                                                   a         c              -
         equipment on consoles
9.3.4. Emergency system battery                    a         c              -

9.3.5. Intercommunication systems                  a         c              -

9.3.6. Instrumentation                             a         c              -
9.4. Prepare and maintain inspection            TR: TO 00-20-1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance, 00-20-2,
    and maintenance documentation         5
                                                Maintenance Data Documentation
9.4.1. AFTO Form 95                                b         c              -

9.4.2. AFTO Form 244                               b         c              -

9.4.3. AFTO Form 245                               b         c              -




                                                                     32
                                           2.      3. Proficiency Codes                4. Certification for OJT
                                           Core/   Used to Indicate Training
                                                   Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical          War-       A         B          C              A          B            C        D           E
References                                 time     3 Skill   5 Skill        7 Skill
                                                    Level     Level          Level
                                           Tasks                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   Course      CDC           Course      Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials


9.5. Principles of                          5, 7

9.5.1. Hypobaric chamber flights                      A         B              -

9.5.2. P.R.I.C.E Check                                B         C              -

9.5.3. Rapid decompression                            A         B              -

9.5.4. Pre- and post-flight                           A         B              -

9.6. Conduct briefings on:                  5, 7

9.6.1. P.R.I.C.E. check                              2b         -              -

9.6.2. Pre- and post-flight                           -         -              -

9.7. Chamber Flights                                  -         c

9.7.1. Original (Type 4A)                   5,7      2b         c              -

9.7.2. Refresher (Type 4)                   5,7      2b         c              -
9.7.3. Rapid Decompression
                                            5,7      2b         c              -
        (Type 1)

9.7.4. F.A.A.                                         -         c              -

9.8. Familiarization Flights

9.8.1. Original                                      2b         -              -

9.8.2. Rapid Decompression                           2b         -              -
9.8.3. Proficiency Flight
                                                     2b         -              -
TR: USAFSAM Plan of Instructions
                                                   TR: TO 15X-1-1, Oxygen Equipment, 15X-1-3-33, High Pressure Oxygen
                                                   Cylinders, 15X1-4-2-12, Emergency Bail-Out Oxygen Cylinder
                                                   Assemblies,15X6-3-13- 3, Pressure Demand Regulator Type 68/A,
10.   OXYGEN EQUIPMENT                             15X6-3-21-13, Oxygen Regulator Type CRU-73/A,15X6-4-3-1, Type MA 1
                                                   Portable Breathing Oxygen Cylinder and Regulator, 33D2-10-55-1, Oxygen
                                                   Regulator Field Tester, 42B5-1-2, Gas Cylinders (Storage Type) Use,
                                                   Handling, and Maintenance, 42B6-1-1, Quality Control of Aviator’s Breathing
                                                   Oxygen
10.1. Storage types, inspections, and
      maintenance                           5, 7      B         B              -

10.2. Regulators                            5, 7      B         B              -

10.3. Emergency and portable oxygen         5, 7      B         B              -
10.4. Perform pre-, in-, and post-flight
                                             5       2b         c              -
      inspections



                                                                        33
                                         2.      3. Proficiency Codes                4. Certification for OJT
                                         Core/   Used to Indicate Training
                                                 Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical        War-       A         B          C              A          B            C        D           E
References                               time     3 Skill   5 Skill        7 Skill
                                                  Level     Level          Level
                                         Tasks                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                 Course      CDC           Course      Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials

                                                 TR: TO 15X5-4-4-12, 15X5-4-4-13, MBU 5/P Pressure Demand Mask,
10.5. Fit, clean, store, inspect, and
                                                 15X5-3-6-1, MBU 12/P Pressure Demand Oxygen Mask, 14P3-1-161, Mask
      maintain the following masks:
                                                 Assembly MBU 20/P, 15X5-4-8-1, Quick Donning Oxygen Mask Assembly,
                                                 15X5-4-10-1, Mask Assembly, Folding Quick Don

10.5.1. MBU 5/P                            5        b         c              -
10.5.2. MBU 10/P (Quick donning
                                                    b         c              -
        oxygen mask)
10.5.3. MBU 12/P                           5       2b         c              -

10.5.4. MBU 20/P                           5       2b         c              -

10.5.5. Custom Mask                                 a         b              -
10.6. Fit, clean, store, inspect, and
                                           5        b         c              -
      maintain 55/P helmet
10.7. Conduct oxygen equipment
                                           5        -         -              -
      briefing
10.8. Prepare and maintain AFTO
                                           5        b         c              -
      Form 334
10.9. Restricted Oxygen Breathing
                                                    A         B              -
      Device (ROBD)
11. HUMAN FACTORS of ESCAPE,                     TR: TO 14D1-1-1, Styles of Parachutes to be used in Various Type Aircraft,
    EGRESS, and CRASH                            14D1-2-1, Personnel Parachutes14D3-11-1, Operation, Inspection,
    SURVIVAL                                     Maintenance, and Packing Instructions for Emergency Personnel Recovery
                                                 Parachute

11.1. Physiological Factors of            5, 7

11.1.1. Ejection                                    B         B              -

11.1.2. In Flight Egress                            B         B              -

11.1.3. Psychology of Survival                                               -

11.1.4. Crash Survival                              B         B              -

11.2. Conduct Crash Survival briefing               -         -              -
                                                 TR: AETC Instructor Guide, P-V4A-G-AP-IC, AETC Student Guide P-V4A-
11.3.   T-1 Egress Training                      G-AP-SG; TO 1T-1A-1, T-1A Aircraft

11.3.1. Perform T-1 instructor duties               -         -              -
11.3.2. Perform T-1 ground egress
                                                    -         -              -
        trainer instructor duties
                                                 TR: AETC/BUMED IG P-v4A-J-JL-IG (C1), AETC/BUMED Student Guide
11.4. T-6 Egress Training
                                                 P-V4A-J-JL-SG; TO 1T-6A-1, T-6A Aircraft
11.4.1. Perform T-6 instructor
                                                    -         -              -
        duties
11.4.2. Perform T-6 ground egress
                                                    -         -              -
        trainer instructor duties
11.4.3. Perform T-6 air egress trainer
                                                    -         -              -
        instructor duties



                                                                      34
                                         2.      3. Proficiency Codes                4. Certification for OJT
                                         Core/   Used to Indicate Training
                                                 Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical        War-       A         B          C              A          B            C        D           E
References                               time     3 Skill   5 Skill        7 Skill
                                                  Level     Level          Level
                                         Tasks                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                 Course      CDC           Course       Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials

                                                 TR: AETC IG P-V4A-A-AP-IG, AETC Student Guide P-V4A-A-AP-SG;
11.5. T-38 Egress Training
                                                 TO 1T-38A-1, T-38A Aircraft, 1T-38C-1, T-38C Aircraft
11.5.1. Perform T-38 instructor duties              -         -              -
11.5.2. Perform T-38 ground egress
        trainer instructor duties
                                                    -         -              -
11.5.3. Perform T-38 air egress
        trainer instructor duties
                                                    -         -              -
12. PARACHUTE FAMILIARIZATION                    TR: AETC Instructor Guide, PV4A-A-JP-IG; AETC Student Guide, PV4A-A-
    TRAINING                                     JP-SG; AETC 36-2224, Procedures for Parachute Familiarization Training

12.1. Purpose                             5, 7      A         B              B
12.2. Ground training/Swing Landing
      Trainer (SLT)
12.2.1. Perform 2 and 4 foot PLF
                                                    a         b              -
        platform instructor duties
12.2.2. Perform drag training
                                                    a         b              -
        instructor duties
12.2.3. Perform suspended harness
                                                    a         b              -
        instructor duties
12.2.4. Perform SLT safety/hook-up
                                                    a         b              -
        assistant duties
12.2.5. Perform SLT instructor
                                                    a         b              -
        (Rope) duties
12.2.6. Perform parachute landing
                                                    a         b              -
        fall

12.3. Conduct briefings on:

12.3.1. Personal protective
                                                     -         -             -
        equipment
12.3.2. Principles and procedures
                                                     -         -             -
        of parachuting
12.3.3. Emergency ground egress
                                                     -         -             -
        principles
12.3.4. Physiological factors                        -         -             -
12.3.5. Swing landing trainer
                                                     -         -             -
        familiarization
12.3.6. Water survival procedures                    -         -             -

12.3.7. Psychology of survival                       -         -             -
                                                 TR: AFI 11-409, High Altitude Airdrop Mission Support Program, 11-410,
13. PARACHUTIST DUTY                             Personnel Parachute Operations; FM 3-05.211 Special Forces Military
                                                 Freefall Operations

13.1. Static line

13.1.1. Performs static line                         -         -             -

13.1.2. Performs static line
                                                     -         -             -
        jumpmaster



                                                                      35
                                      2.      3. Proficiency Codes                 4. Certification for OJT
                                      Core/   Used to Indicate Training
                                              Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical     War-        A         B         C               A          B            C        D           E
References                            time      3 Skill   5 Skill        7 Skill
                                                Level     Level          Level
                                      Tasks                                         Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                              Course      CDC            Course       Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials


13.2. Military freefall

13.2.1. Performs military freefall                -         -              -
13.2.2. Performs military freefall
                                                  -         -              -
        jumpmaster duties
13.3. Other related duties
13.3.1. Performs parachutist safety
                                                  -         -              -
        position duties
13.3.2. Performs DZ control duties                -         -              -
14. CABIN PRESSURIZATION and
    DECOMPRESSION                      5, 7   TR: Ernsting’s Aviation Medicine, current edition;

14.1. Principles and physiological
                                                 B         B               -
      effects
14.2. Identify precautionary and
                                                 b         c               -
      corrective procedures
14.3. Conduct classroom instruction               -        -               -
15. HIGH ALTITUDE
                                              TR: TMs 14P3-GNS1034-2, Pilot Protective Assembly; ACCI 11-459, High
    RECONNAISSANCE MISSION
                                                  Altitude Reconnaissance Mission Support Program
    SUPPORT (HARMS)
15.1. Purpose and development          5, 7      A         B               B

15.2. Operating principles                       A         B               B
15.3. Physiological factors
                                                 A         B               B
      affecting wear and use
16. AEROSPACE and
    OPERATIONAL PHYSIOLOGY
    INSTRUCTION
    RESPONSIBILITIES

16.1. Learning process                           B          -              -

16.2. Communicative skills                       B          -              -
16.3. Instructional Systems
                                                 A          -              -
      Development process
16.4. Questioning techniques                     B          -              -

16.5. Instructor’s role                          A          -              -
16.6. Evaluation process for
                                                 B          -              -
      student achievement
16.7. Dynamic of small learning
                                                 B          -              -
      groups
16.8. Development objectives and
      lesson plans

16.8.1. Develop objectives                      2b          -              -



                                                                    36
                                            2.      3. Proficiency Codes                4. Certification for OJT
                                            Core/   Used to Indicate Training
                                                    Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical           War-       A         B          C              A          B            C        D           E
References                                  time     3 Skill   5 Skill        7 Skill
                                                     Level     Level          Level
                                            Tasks                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    Course      CDC           Course      Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials



16.8.2. Develop lesson plans                          2b         -                 -

16.9. Instructional media

16.9.1. Select instructional aids                      b         -                 -

16.9.2.    Use overhead and
                                                       b         -                 -
          powerpoint techniques

16.9.3. Use whiteboard techniques                      b         -                 -

16.10. Preparing for and conducting
       instruction

16.10.1. Present a military briefing                  2b         -                 -

16.10.2. Present an informal lecture
                                                      2b         -                 -
         lesson
                                                    TR: AFI 48-112, Hyperbaric Chamber Program; TO 43D8-3-4-61, 43D8-3-
17. HYPERBARIC PROGRAM                              6-1, Hyperbaric Compression Chamber, ASME PVHO-1 and PVHO-2 Safety
                                                    Standards
17.1. Purpose and development of
      operational and clinical facilities     5

17.1.1. Operational facilities                         A         B                 -

17.1.2. Clinical facilities                            A         B                 -
                                                    TR: AFI 11-202V3, General Flight Rules, 11-401, Flight Management,11-
                                                    403, Aerospace Physiology Training Program, 11-409, High Altitude Airdrop
18. HIGH ALTITUDE AIRDROP
                                                    Mission Support Program, 11-410, Personnel Parachute Operations,11-2C-
    MISSION SUPPORT (HAAMS)                   R
                                                    17V3, C-17 Operations Procedures, 11-2C-130V3, C-130 Operation
                                                    Procedures; FM 3-05.211, Special Forces Military Free-Fall Operations;
                                                    USAFSOC 350-2; TO 15X-2-6-11, Parachute Oxygen System

18.1. Purpose and development                5, 7     A         B             B

18.2. Operations and management              5, 7     A         B             B

18.3. Physiology Review

                                                       -        -              -
18.3.1. Altitude threats

                                                       -        -              -
18.3.2. Human Factors

                                                       -        -              -
18.3.3. Situational Awareness

18.4. Terminology and applicable
      manuals used during HAAMS
                                                       -        -              -
      operations




                                                                         37
                                         2.      3. Proficiency Codes                4. Certification for OJT
                                         Core/   Used to Indicate Training
                                                 Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical        War-       A        B           C              A          B            C        D           E
References                               time     3 Skill   5 Skill        7 Skill
                                                  Level     Level          Level
                                         Tasks                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                 Course     CDC            Course      Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials

18.5. Operation/Maintenance
      HAAMS Oxygen Equipment:


18.5.1. 6-Man Console

18.5.1.1. Oxygen purging                            -         -              -
          procedures:
18.5.1.2. Oxygen charging                           -         -              -
          procedures
                                                    -         -              -
18.5.1.3. Pre/Post flight checks:

19.5.1.4. Periodic inspection and                   -         -              -
          preventative maintenance
18.5.1.5. Disassembly, inspection,                  -         -              -
          and assembly
18.5.2. 44/100/106 Cubic Inch
        Portable Oxygen System
                                                    -         -              -
18.5.2.1. Oxygen purging procedures

18.5.2.2. Oxygen charging                           -         -              -
          procedures
                                                    -         -              -
18.5.2.3. Pre/Post flight checks

18.5.2.4. Periodic Inspection and
                                                    -         -              -
          preventative maintenance
18.5.2.5. Disassembly, Inspection,
                                                    -         -              -
          and Assembly
18.5.3. Parachutist High Altitude Next
        Generation Oxygen System
        (PHANTOM)
                                                    -         -              -
18.5.3.1. Oxygen purging procedures

18.5.3.2. Oxygen charging
          procedures
                                                    -         -              -

18.5.3.3. Pre/Post Flight Checks                    -         -              -
18.5.3.4. Periodic Inspection and                   -         -              -
          Preventative Maintenance
18.5.3.5. Disassembly, Inspection,                  -         -              -
          and Assembly
18.5.4. Parachutist High Altitude
                                                    -         -              -
        Oxygen System (PHAOS)

18.5.4.1. Oxygen purging procedures                 -         -              -
18.5.4.2. Oxygen charging                           -         -              -
          procedures
                                                    -         -              -
18.5.4.3. Pre/Post flight checks




                                                                      38
                                          2.      3. Proficiency Codes                4. Certification for OJT
                                          Core/   Used to Indicate Training
                                                  Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical         War-       A         B          C              A          B            C        D           E
References                                time     3 Skill   5 Skill        7 Skill
                                                   Level     Level          Level
                                          Tasks                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                  Course      CDC           Course      Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials

18.5.4.4. Periodic inspection and                    -         -             -
          preventative maintenance
18.5.4.5. Disassembly, inspection,
                                                     -         -             -
          and assembly
18.5.5. Clean HAAMS oxygen
                                                     -         -             -
        equipment
18.6. Perform aircrew flight
     equipment pre/post flight
     inspections:
18.6.1. MBU-12/P                                     -         -             -

18.6.2. HGU-55/P                                     -         -             -

18.6.3. Gentex parachutist helmet                    -         -             -
18.7. Initial aircrew flight equipment
      ground/in-flight egress training:

18.7.1. C-17                                         -         -             -

18.7.2. C-130                                        -         -             -
18.8.    Perform pre-HAAMS mission
         planning:
18.8.1. Coordinate mission specifics
        w/flying organizations/user                  -         -             -
        groups
18.8.2. Coordinate reactor treatment
        plan w/ flight surgeon and                   -         -             -
        hyperbaric facility
18.8.3. Coordinate processing of
         aeronautical orders w/flight                -         -             -
         records section
18.8.4. Assemble, inspect, and
        ensure proper operation of
                                                     -         -             -
        HAAMS equipment
        package/kit
18.9. Perform Operational HAAMS
        duties on the Aircraft:
18.9.1. Brief aircraft commander/user
        group procedures for:

18.9.1.1. Transfer of DCS reactors                   -         -             -

18.9.1.2. In-flight emergencies                      -         -             -

18.9.2. Advise aircrew, jumpers, and
        passengers on:

18.9.2.1. Use of oxygen equipment                    -         -             -




                                                                       39
                                       2.      3. Proficiency Codes                4. Certification for OJT
                                       Core/   Used to Indicate Training
                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical      War-       A         B          C              A          B            C        D           E
References                             time     3 Skill   5 Skill        7 Skill
                                                Level     Level          Level
                                       Tasks                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                               Course      CDC           Course      Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials


18.9.2.2. Pre-breathing requirements              -         -              -

18.9.2.3. Depressurization
                                                  -         -              -
          rates/schedules
18.9.2.4. Maximum altitude exposure
                                                  -         -              -
          times
18.9.3. Assist load master in
        configuring aircraft                      -         -              -
        w/supplemental oxygen
18.9.4. Manage in-flight
                                                  -         -              -
        physiological reactions
18.9.5. Monitor/record pre-breathing
                                                  -         -              -
        and exposure times
18.9.6. Monitor Supplemental
                                                  -         -              -
        Oxygen Equipment Use:
18.9.6.1. Properly connected and
                                                  -         -              -
          operational
18.9.6.2. Adequate quantities and
                                                  -         -              -
          pressures

18.10. Perform Post Mission Duties:

18.10.1. Accomplish post mission
                                                  -         -              -
         checklist
18.10.2. Brief aircrew on
                                                  -         -              -
         physiological issues

18.10.3. Prepare HAAMS trip report                -         -              -

                                       TR: AFI 11-404 Centrifuge Training for High G Aircrew, AFPAM 11-419, G-
19. CENTRIFUGE
                                       Awareness for Aircrew

19.1. Purpose                            5        A        B               -

19.2. Crew positions


19.2.1. Lecturer/observer                         A        B               -

19.2.2. Operator                                  A        B               -

19.2.3. Crewchief                                 A        B               -

19.2.4. Recorder                                  A        B               -

19.2.5. Aerospace physiologist                    A        B               -




                                                                    40
                                      2.      3. Proficiency Codes                4. Certification for OJT
                                      Core/   Used to Indicate Training
                                              Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical     War-       A         B          C              A          B            C        D           E
References                            time     3 Skill   5 Skill        7 Skill
                                               Level     Level          Level
                                      Tasks                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                              Course     CDC            Course      Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials

20. MEDICAL READINESS: Initial
    Medical Readiness Training as
                                                1a         -              -
    conducted by USAFSAM IAW AFI
    41-106
21. AEROSPACE AND                     TR AFI 11-403, Aerospace Physiology Training Program; AFI 48-101, Aerospace
    OPERATIONAL PHYSIOLOGY            Medicine Operations
    TEAM (AOPT)

21.1. Purpose and development of
      the AOPT
                                                A          -              -

21.2. Review of Human Factors
21.2.1. Foundation of Human
        Factors Training
                                                A         B               B
21.2.2. USAF Safety Program
                                                 -         -              B
21.2.3. Human Factor Mishap
        Process
                                                 -         -              B
21.2.4. AOPT Directives
                                                                          B
21.3. Human Performance
     Enhancement and Sustainment
21.3.1 Fatigue

21.3.1.1. Sleep Physiology                       -         -              B
21.3.1.2. Fatigue Countermeasures                -         -              B
21.3.2. Performance based Fitness
                                                 -         -              B
        and Nutrition
21.3.3 Vision and Visual Protection              -         -              B

21.3.4. Thermal Stress Management                -         -              B

21.3.5. Acceleration                             -         -              B
21.3.6. Alcohol, Stress, and Human
                                                 -         -              B
        Performance
21.3.7. Airsickness Management                   -         -              B
21.4.   Situational Awareness &
        Systems Integration

21.4.1. Situational Awareness (SA)               -         -              B

21.4.2. Technology and SA                        -         -              B

21.4.3. Human Factors and Decision
                                                 -         -              B
        Making




                                                                   41
                                     2.        3. Proficiency Codes                 4. Certification for OJT
                                     Core/     Used to Indicate Training
                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical    War-         A         B          C               A          B            C        D           E
References                           time        3 Skill   5 Skill        7 Skill
                                                 Level     Level          Level
                                     Tasks                                           Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                               Course      CDC            Course      Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials


21.4.4. Human Systems Integration                  -        -              B

21.5. Organizational Performance
       Factors
21.5.1. Operational Risk
        Management                                B         -              B
21.5.2. DoD HFACS/AFSAS
        Database Analysis                          -        -              B

21.5.3. Human Factors Gap Analysis                 -        -              B
21.5.4. CRM/MRM and Related
                                                   -        -              B
        Mishap Trends

21.6. Air Base Operations

21.6.1. Basic Flight Principles                    -        -              B

21.6.2. Perform Aircraft Mishap
                                                   -        -              2b
        Investigation
21.6.3. Perform Ground Mishap
                                                   -        -              2b
        Investigation

21.7. AOPT Program Management

21.7.1. AOPT Field Perspective                     -        -               -

21.7.2. Expeditionary AOPT
                                                   -        -               -
        Enhancement
21.7.3. AOPT Curriculum and
        Training Management and                    -        -               -
        Inspections
21.7.4. AOPT Monthly Report and
                                                   -        -               -
        Operating Instructions
21.7.5. AOPT Human Factors
                                                   -        -               -
        Research Resources

                                             Section B - Course Objective List

          4. Measurement. Each proficiency code STS task or knowledge item taught at the technical
          school is measured through the use of an objective. An objective is a written instruction for the
          student so he or she knows what is expected of him or her to successfully complete training on
          each task. Each objective is composed of a condition, behavior, and standard which state what
          is expected of the student for each task. The condition is the setting in which the training takes
          place (i.e. TOs, type of equipment, etc.) The behavior is the observable portion of the objective
          (i.e. perform an operational check.) The standard is the level of performance that is measured
          to ensure the STS proficiency code level is attained. Each objective uses a letter code to identify
          how it is measured. All objectives use proficiency codes, which indicate a progress check is
          used to measure subject or task knowledge. ―W‖ indicates a comprehensive written test and is
          used to measure the subject or task knowledge at the end of a block of instruction. ―PC/W‖




                                                                     42
indicates a subject or task knowledge progress check and a separate measurement of both
knowledge and performance elements using a written test.

5. Standard. The minimum standard for written examinations is 70%. Standards for
performance objectives are indicated in the objective and are also indicated on the individual
progress check checklist. The checklist is used by the instructor to document each student's
progress on each task. Instructor assistance is provided as needed during the progress check,
and students may be required to repeat all or part of the behavior until satisfactory performance
is attained. Students must satisfactorily complete all progress checks prior to taking the written
test.

6. Proficiency Level. Most task performance is taught to the ―2b‖ proficiency level which
means the students can do most parts of the task, needs help only on hardest parts.
(PARTIALLY PROFICIENT.) The student can also name step by step procedures for completing
the task.

7. Course Objective List. Detailed objectives for all Aerospace and Operational Physiology
courses can be obtained from the Plan of Instruction (POI) specific to the course. The POI for
the course contains the measurement, standard, and proficiency level for each course objective.
This information is available at USAFSAM/ED, Academic Affairs Branch at Brooks City-Base,
TX 78235.

                                  Section C - Support Materials

8. The following list of support materials is not all inclusive; however, it covers the most
frequently referenced areas.
DeHart, Roy L., Fundamentals of Aerospace Medicine, 3rd edition, Lippincott Williams &
Wilkens, 2002.
Dorland’s Illustrated Medical Dictionary, 31th edition, W.B. Saunders Company, 2007.
Gradwell and Rainford David., Ernsting’s Aviation Medicine, 4th edition, Hodder Arnold
Publication, 2006.
Guyton Arthur C., Textbook of Medical Physiology, 10th edition, W.B. Saunders Company, 2000.
Marieb Elaine N., Essentials of Human Anatomy & Physiology, 5th edition, Benjamin/Cummings
Publishing Company, Inc., 1997.
Reinhart Richard O., Basic Flight Physiology, 2nd edition, McGraw-Hill Professional, 1996.
Thibodeau, Gary A. and Patton, Kevin T., Anatomy and Physiology. 6th edition. MO: Times
Mirror/Mosby College Publishing, 2007.
Venes, Donald., Taber’s Cyclopedic Medical Dictionary. 20th edition. F. A. Davis Company,
2005.

                               Section D - Training Course Index

9. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the specialty
and shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field training programs.

10. Air Force In-Residence Courses.



                                                 43
COURSE NUMBER           TITLE                                      LOCATION

B3ABY4M031 0A1B         Aerospace Physiology Apprentice           Brooks City-Base, TX

B3ACY4M071 0A1B         Aerospace Physiology Craftsman            Brooks City-Base, TX

B3OZY4XHPE 0A1A         Human Performance Enhancement             Brooks City-Base, TX

B3AZY4X0X1 006          Clinical Hyperbaric Technician Course     Brooks City-Base, TX

B3OZY4MXXX 0A1A         HAAMS Course                              Little Rock AFB, AZ

B6ERPM/B6ERBM           USAF Ergonomics                           Brooks City-Base, TX

E6AILTXXXX 0C1A         CDC Writers                               Keesler AFB, MS

L3AIRTXXXX 0B1A         Basic Instructor Course                   Lackland AFB, TX

L3AIRTXXXX 0T1A         Technical Writer Principles               Lackland AFB, TX

L3AIRTXXXX 0DIA         Training Development                      Lackland AFB, TX

L3AZR1S071 0S5A         Flight Safety NCO                         Lackland AFB, TX

L9AZA 1XXXX 0A1A        Airborne Parachutist                      Ft Benning, GA

L9AZA1 XXXX 0FIA        Military Freefall Parachutist             Yuma Proving Ground, AZ

MECI-100                AFIADL Course for Authors                 Maxwell AFB, AL

NVGAIC                  Night Vision Academic Instructor Course Randolph AFB, TX

S-V80-A                 Combat Survival Training Course           Fairchild AFB, WA

S-V86-A                 Water Survival Training Course            Pensacola NAS, FL

S-V87-A                 Arctic Survival Training Course           Eielson AFB, AK

S-V90-A                 Water Survival, Non-Parachuting           Fairchild AFB, WA

WCIP05A                 Aircraft Mishap Investigation Course      Kirtland AFB, NM

WCIP05D                 Safety Managers Course                    Kirtland AFB, NM

WCIP059                 Mishap Investigation Non-Aviation (MINA) Kirtland AFB, NM


Refer to the Education and Training Course Announcement website for current course
information: https://etca.randolph.af.mil.




                                               44
11. Extension Course Institute (ECI) Courses
COURSE NUMBER               TITLE

4M051 CDC                   Aerospace Physiology Journeyman

12. Courses Under Development/Revision – There are currently no major course revisions.

                         Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements


13. There are currently no MAJCOM unique requirements. This area is reserved.

                  Section F - Documentation of Training (Medical Specific)

14. Work Center Training Plan. The purpose of this section is to provide guidelines and
examples of proper documentation for the many electronic forms used in training of all enlisted
medical personnel. Training documentation helps to assess readiness capability, individual
strengths and weaknesses. It also aids compliance with all Joint Commission on Accreditation
of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO) and Health Services Inspections (HSI) regulatory
requirements. The Enlisted Training documentation has migrated from the hard copy to
electronic Air Force Training Record (AFTR). AFTR is accessible from the Advanced
Distributed Learning System via the Air Force Portal. Refer to your unit training manager for the
most current policies and guidance on training documentation.

14.1. Master Training Plan (MTP)

14.1.1. A Master Training Plan is a reference guide developed for each section that includes all
facets of training for individuals assigned. It is used as a reference source for the type of
training and training documentation that occurs with each assigned member. The MTP is used
to standardize training and to give trainers, trainees, supervisors, and NCOICs an overview of
the training process for the duty section. Training managers will implement into electronic
system AFTR.

14.1.2. The Master Training Plan is an overview of training for the duty section; it should
include all information involved in the training process for the duty section. Training will vary
from section to section and person to person, certain documents will be a standard requirement
for all MTPs. They are listed below:

14.1.2.1. Master task list (MTL). The MTL identifies all day-to-day mission (duty position)
requirements, core tasks, local and contingency tasks, and additional duties performed by work
center personnel.

14.1.2.2. Current CFETP or AFJQS (if available).

14.1.2.3. Locally developed AF Form 797, Job Qualification Standard (JQS) Continuation Sheet
(if applicable), which is now accessible in AFTR.

14.1.2.4. Milestones for tasks and CDC completion (identify the projected time frame the
trainee will complete their core tasks and each set of CDCs as required).



                                               45
Recommendation: Each MTP should have an official memorandum from the work-center
supervisor addressing key issues peculiar to the work-center and implementation of the MTP.

14.1.2.5. Aerospace and Operational Physiology Training Teams are not required to develop a
Master Training Plan.




                                             46
