DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                    CFETP 3E1X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                                       Parts I and II
Washington DC 20330-5000                                                         May 2007




                                         AFSC 3E1X1


 HEATING, VENTILATION, AIR CONDITIONING
           AND REFRIGERATION




                                              MASTER




          BASIC                                                                      SENIOR


                             CAREER FIELD
                      EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN


ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication
                      HEATING, VENTILATION, AIR CONDITIONING AND
                     REFRIGERATION (HVAC/R) SPECIALTY AFSC 3E1X1
                   CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN (CFETP)


                                                            Table of Contents


Preface ................................................................................................................................4

Abbreviations/Terms Explained ......................................................................................6

PART I

Section A - General Information ...................................................................................10
     Purpose of the CFETP
     Uses of the CFETP
     Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B - Career Field Progression and Information ………...................................12
     Specialty Descriptions
     Skill/Career Progression
          Apprentice (3-Level)
          Journeyman (5-Level)
          Craftsman (7-Level)
          Superintendent (9-Level)
          Civil Engineer Manager
     Training Decisions
     Community College of the Air Force Academic Programs
     Career Field Path

Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements…..…………………………………...22
     Purpose
     Specialty Qualification Requirements
         Apprentice (3-Level)
         Journeyman (5-Level)
         Craftsman (7-Level)
         Superintendent (9-Level)
         Civil Engineer Manager

Section D - Resource Constraints ..................................................................................28
     Purpose
     Training Constraints

Section E - Transitional Training Guide ......................................................................29



                                                                         2
PART II

Section A - Specialty Training Standard ......................................................................30
       Implementation
       Purpose
       Recommendations
       Qualitative Requirements
       AFQTP Documentation Record

Section B - Course Objective List ..................................................................................53

Section C - Support Materials ..........................................................................................54

Section D - Training Course Index ................................................................................55

Section E - Major Command (MAJCOM) Unique Requirements .............................56

Section F - Home Station Training ..................................................................................57




OPR: 366 TRS/TRR
Certified by: HQ AFCESA/CEOF
Supersedes: CFETP3E1X2, 1 July 2002 and CFETP3E1X1C1, 1 February 2004
Pages: 59




                                                             3
                 HEATING, VENTILATION, AIR CONDITIONING AND
                    REFRIGERATION SPECIALTY AFSC 3E1X1
                 CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN


                                          PREFACE

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support
resources, and minimum requirements for this specialty. The CFETP will provide personnel a
clear career path to success and instill rigor in all aspects of career field training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts used by supervisors to plan, manage, and control training
within the career field.

  2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty.

     2.1.1. Section A explains how everyone will use the plan.

     2.1.2. Section B identifies career field progression information, duties and
     responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path.

     2.1.3. Section C associates each skill level with specialty qualifications (knowledge,
     education, experience, training and other).

     2.1.4. Section D indicates resource constraints (examples: funds, manpower, equipment,
     facilities, etc.).

     2.1.5. Section E identifies transition training guide requirements for SSgt through MSgt.

  2.2. Part II includes the following:

     2.2.1. Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) to include duties, tasks,
     and technical references to support training, Air Education and Training Command
     (AETC)-conducted training, wartime course, core task and correspondence course
     requirements.

     2.2.2. Section B contains the course objective list and training standards supervisors will
     use to determine if Airmen satisfied training requirements.

     2.2.3. Section C identifies available support materials. Air Force Qualification Training
     Packages (AFQTPs) and CerTests support both Upgrade Training (UGT) and qualification
     training.




                                            4
      2.2.4. Section D identifies a training course index supervisors can use to determine
      resources available to support training. Included here are both mandatory and optional
      courses.

      2.2.5. Section E identifies MAJCOM-unique training requirements supervisors can use to
      determine additional training required for the associated qualification needs.

      2.2.6. Section F identifies home station training references and courses material required
      for this specialty in support of contingency/wartime training.

      2.2.7. Section F identifies home station training references and courses material required
      for this specialty in support of contingency/wartime training.

      2.2.8. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan and conduct
      training commensurate with the overall goals of this guide.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive
effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their careers. This plan will enable us
to train today’s work force for tomorrow’s jobs.




                                               5
                       ABBREVIATIONS AND TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Distributed Learning (ADL). Anytime, anyplace learning within DoD consisting of
instructional modules comprised of sharable content objectives in an Internet/Intranet
environment.

Advanced Training (AT). A formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in one
or more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance
their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career Airmen at the advanced level of
the AFS.

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). An individual on the Air Staff charged with the
responsibility for overseeing all training and career field management aspects of an Air Force
specialty or group of specialties.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard/Command Job Qualification Standard
(AFJQS/CJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a particular job type or duty position.
Supervisors will use this list to document task qualifications. The tasks on the AFJQS/CJQS are
common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Air Force Qualification Training Package (AFQTP). An instructional package designed for
use at the unit to qualify or aid qualification in a duty position, program, or on a piece of
equipment. AFQTPs identify the Air Force’s standardized method for performing the task. The
AFQTP may be printed (paper-based), computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.

Battlefield Airman. Airmen specifically identified as Battlefield Airmen perform tasks to
integrate and synchronize air and space operations in the deep or extended battlespace. These
Airmen routinely fight with joint maneuver and SOF units.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A comprehensive, multipurpose
document encapsulating the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field. It
outlines a logical growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career
field training identifiable, eliminate duplication, and ensure training is budget defensible.

Certification and Testing (CerTest). A multi-media evaluation program used to test an
individual’s knowledge of principles and procedures in their career field.

Commercial Off The Shelf (COTS). Commercially-procured training products.

Computer-Based Training (CBT). A self-paced stand-alone computer product used to deliver
interactive subject and task knowledge.

Continuation Training. Additional training exceeding requirements with emphasis on present
and future duty assignments.




                                              6
Core Task. A task Air Force Career Field Managers (AFCFMs) identified as a minimum
qualification requirement within an Air Force specialty or duty position. These tasks exemplify
the essence of the career field.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication derived from initial/advanced skills course
training standard, identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective standards
provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to
assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201v1, Air Force Training
Program, Training Development, Delivery and Evaluation.

Critical Task. Tasks that have been identified by the work center supervisor as having a
detrimental effect on mission accomplishment if not performed correctly. Critical tasks may or
may not be the same as core tasks but are mandatory if identified as ‘critical’ to the individual’s
position by the supervisor or work center.

Diamond Task (♦). Diamond tasks are extremely important to the career field. Diamond tasks
are the same as core tasks with one exception--equipment shortfalls at most locations have
created problems with the actual hands-on certification of these tasks. In instances where
required equipment is not available for instruction, completion of the task’s AFQTP and passing
the corresponding CerTest is all that is required for upgrade and qualification training. Hands-on
certification should be accomplished at the first opportunity when equipment is available.

Distance Learning (DL). Formal courses that a training wing or contractor develops for export
to a field location (in lieu of resident training) for trainees to complete without the on-site
support of a formal school instructor. Some of the means employed to deliver DL are Video
Teleseminar (VTS), Video Teletraining (VTT), and Computer-Based Training (CBT). Distance
Learning courses are offered by the Air Force Institute of Technology, Air University, and
Training Detachment.

Duty Position Task. The tasks assigned to an individual for the position currently held. These
include as a minimum all core tasks, critical tasks, and any other tasks assigned by the
supervisor.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer-assisted, paper text, interactive video,
or other necessary means to supplement training.

Field Technical Training (Type 4 and Type 7). Special or regular on-site training conducted
by a Field Training Detachment (FTD) (Type 4) or by a Mobile Training Team (MTT) (Type 7).

Initial Skills Training. AFS-specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air
Force or upon retraining into a 3-level awarding specialty. Normally, AETC conducts this
training at one of their technical training wings.



                                              7
Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate, orderly, and flexible process for
planning, developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures a cost-
efficient approach is employed to teach personnel the knowledge, skills, and attitudes essential
for successful job performance.

Occupational Survey Report (OSR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational
survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify
personnel in both upgrade (skill-level award) and job qualification (duty position certification)
training.

Optimal Training. The ideal combination of training settings resulting in the highest levels of
proficiency on specified performance requirements within the minimum time possible.

Proficiency Training. Additional training, either in-residence, exportable advanced training
courses, or on-the-job training provided to increase personnel skills and knowledge beyond the
minimum required for upgrade.

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify
an individual in a specific duty position. This portion of the dual channel on-the-job training
program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the
performance skills required to do the job.

Readiness Training Package (RTP). Establishes standard levels of knowledge and proficiency
for common Disaster Preparedness and Readiness subject areas by providing instructors with
training references, materials, and lesson objectives used in teaching and evaluating the course
subject matter.

Representative Sites. Typical organizational units having similar missions, weapon systems or
equipment, or a set of jobs, used as a basis for estimating average training capacities and costs.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, or
equipment that precludes desired training from being delivered.

Skills Training. A formal course resulting in the award of a skill level.

Specialty Training. A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (on-the-
job) to qualify and provide Airmen skill level upgrade.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). Describes skills and knowledge that Airmen in a
particular AFS need on the job. Additionally, the STS illustrates AFS overall training
requirements for both resident and nonresident courses. It further serves as a contract between
the Air Education and Training Command (AETC) and the end user.




                                              8
Spin-up Training (SUT). Training required just prior to select deployment. This training
delivers the necessary tools for mission accomplishment. Typically, it is predicated on hard to
attain contingency skills.

Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, established and defined by
authority, custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring
quantities or qualities, establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results; a fixed quantity
or quality.

Supplemental Training. Training for a portion of an AFS without a change in AFSC. Formal
training on new equipment, methods, and technology that are not suited for on-the-job training.

Total Force. All collective Air Force components (active duty, Reserve, Guard, and civilian
elements) of the United States Air Force.

Training Capacity. The capability of a training setting to provide training on specified
requirements, based on the availability of resources.

Training Planning Team (TPT). Comprised of the same personnel as a U&TW; however,
TPTs are more intimately involved in training development and the range of issues is greater
than is normal in the U&TW forum.

Training Requirements Analysis. A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFS to be
included in the training decision process.

Upgrade Training (UGT). Identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements
and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 5-, 7-, and 9-skill levels.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum comprised of the AFCFM, MAJCOM
Functional Managers (MFMs), Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training personnel
that determines career ladder training requirements.




                                               9
                                              PART I

                         SECTION A - GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Purpose. This CFETP provides information necessary for Air Force Career Field Managers
(AFCFMs), MAJCOM functional managers (MFMs), commanders, education and training
managers, supervisors, trainers and certifiers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective
career field training program. This plan outlines the training that individuals in the AFS should
receive in order to develop and progress throughout their career. It identifies initial skills,
upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency training.

   1.1. Initial skills training. This is the AFS-specific training an individual receives upon
entry into the Air Force or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level.
Normally, AETC conducts this training at one of the technical training centers.

   1.2. Upgrade training. This identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification
   requirements, and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-,
   and 9-skill levels.

   1.3. Qualification training. This is actual hands-on task performance training designed to
   qualify an Airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and
   after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills and
   knowledge required to do the job.

   1.4. Advanced training. This is a formal course that provides individuals who are qualified
   in one or more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills and
   knowledge to enhance their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career
   Airmen at the advanced level of the AFS.

   1.5. Proficiency training. This is additional training, either in-residence, exportable
   advanced training courses, or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills
   and knowledge beyond the minimum requirements for upgrade.

2. The CFETP has several purposes:

   2.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field
   training program. It is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an
   individual’s career.

   2.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty
   and recommends education and training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.

   2.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty and identifies sources of training and
   training delivery methods.




                                              10
   2.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired
   career field training process.

3. Uses. MFMs and supervisors will use the plan at all levels to ensure comprehensive and
cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

   3.1. AETC training personnel will develop or revise formal resident, nonresident, field, and
   exportable training based on requirements established by the users and documented in Part II
   of the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM, Air Force Civil Engineer Support
   Agency Force Development Division (HQ AFCESA/CEOF) to develop acquisition strategies
   for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified training.

   3.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial,
   upgrade, and proficiency requirements and identify requirements that can be satisfied by OJT,
   resident training, contract training, CerTest, or exportable courses. MAJCOM developed
   training to support this AFS must be identified for inclusion into the plan.

   3.3. Unit Education and Training managers and supervisors must ensure each individual
   completes the mandatory training requirements (including MAJCOM supplemental
   requirements) for the upgrade training specified in this plan.

   3.4. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan.
   The lists of courses in Part II in this CFETP will be used as a reference to support training.

4. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority for the CFETP.
MAJCOM representatives and AETC personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field
training requirements. The AFCFM will initiate an annual review of this document to ensure
currency and accuracy. Using the list of courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.




                                              11
         SECTION B - CAREER FIELD PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION

5. Specialty Descriptions. Heating, Ventilation, Air Conditioning and Refrigeration
(HVAC/R) Apprentice, Journeyman, Craftsman and Superintendent.

  5.1. Specialty Summary. Installs, operates, maintains, and repairs heating, ventilation, air
  conditioning, and refrigeration (HVAC/R) systems, combustion equipment, and industrial air
  compressors. Maintains and repairs non-electric kitchen equipment. Manages HVAC/R
  functions and activities. Related DoD Occupational subgroup: 720.

  5.2. Duties and Responsibilities.

     5.2.1. Installs and operates HVAC/R systems and equipment.

        5.2.1.1. Interprets drawings and schematics and installs HVAC/R components.

        5.2.1.2. Installs, repairs, fabricates, and tests piping and tubing systems.

        5.2.1.3. Installs, connects, troubleshoots, and maintains HVAC/R controls.

        5.2.1.4. Tests HVAC/R equipment for proper operation.

        5.2.1.5. Balances air and water in HVAC systems.

        5.2.1.6. Monitors systems operation to ensure efficiency and compliance with technical
        orders, manufacturer handbooks, local procedures, codes, and directives.

        5.2.1.7. Evaluates water treatment for heating and cooling systems.

        5.2.1.8. Ensures compliance with safety and environmental regulations for fuels,
        refrigerants, and hazardous materials

     5.2.2. Maintains and repairs HVAC/R equipment systems.

        5.2.2.1. Performs recurring maintenance and seasonal overhaul on systems and
        components.

        5.2.2.2. Uses drawings and schematics to analyze and isolate system malfunctions.

        5.2.2.3. Troubleshoots malfunctions using technical orders, manufacturer’s handbooks,
        local procedures, codes and directives.

        5.2.2.4. Repairs or replaces components.

        5.2.2.5. Modifies equipment for specific missions or to increase efficiency.



                                                12
         5.2.2.6. Maintains tools and equipment. Maintains shop tools and equipment.
         Calibrates test equipment to ensure accuracy.

      5.2.3. Advises on problems with HVAC/R equipment and systems.

         5.2.3.1. Solves complex maintenance problems by studying layout
         drawings, wiring and schematic drawings, and by analyzing construction
         and operating characteristics.

         5.2.3.2. Develops and establishes operation and maintenance procedures to ensure
         maximum efficiency.

      5.2.4. Plans and performs facilities surveys.

         5.2.4.1. Surveys proposed work to determine resource requirement.

6. Skill and Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the
apprentice to the superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force's ability to
accomplish its mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training do his or her part to
plan, manage, and conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of
the CFETP will ensure individuals receive viable training at appropriate points in their careers.

   6.1. Apprentice (3-Level).

      6.1.1. Upon completion of initial skills training, a trainee will work with a trainer to
      enhance their knowledge and skills to progress to the 5-level.

      6.1.2. Utilize the Career Development Course (CDC), Air Force Qualification Training
      Packages (AFQTPs) and other exportable courses for subject and task fundamentals in the
      career field. Successfully complete applicable CerTests.

      6.1.3. Once trained and task certified, a trainee may perform the task unsupervised.

      6.1.4. After all upgrade training requirements are completed, supervisors and Unit
      Education and Training Managers (UETMs) coordinate upgrade procedures.

      6.1.5. NOTE: All trainees are automatically enrolled in the Community College of the Air
      Force (CCAF) when awarded their primary AFSC.

   6.2. Journeyman (5-Level).

      6.2.1. 5-Levels may be assigned job positions such as team leader, shift supervisor, and
      task certifier.

      6.2.2. Enter into continuation training to broaden experience base and to advance to the 7-
      level.


                                              13
  6.2.3. Attend the Airman Leadership School (ALS) after serving 48 months in the Air
  Force or selection to the rank of SSgt (active duty only). Either the in-residence or
  correspondence course is required for Air National Guard/Air Force Reserve Command
  (ANG/AFRC) personnel..

  6.2.4. Use CDCs and other reference material to prepare for Weighted Airman
  Performance Systems (WAPS) testing.

  6.2.5. Continue pursuing a Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) degree.

  6.2.6. After all upgrade training requirements are complete, supervisors and UETMs
  coordinate upgrade procedures.

6.3. Craftsman (7-Level).

  6.3.1. A craftsman may expect to fill various supervisory and management positions such
  as shift leader, mobility team chief, supervisor, or task certifier.

  6.3.2. Completion of 100% core/diamond task training is prerequisite to the award of the
  7-level.

  6.3.3. Must complete 7-level craftsman course and, as a minimum, 12 months OJT before
  award of the 7-level.

  6.3.4. Seven-levels should take continuation training courses or obtain additional
  knowledge on management of resources and personnel.

  6.3.5. Continued academic education through CCAF and higher degree programs is
  encouraged.

  6.3.6. Attend the Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA) after promotion to TSgt
  (active duty only). Either the in-residence or correspondence course is required for Air
  National Guard/Air Force Reserve Command (ANG/AFRC) personnel.

  6.3.7. After all upgrade training requirements are completed, supervisors and UETMs
  coordinate upgrade procedures.

6.4. Superintendent. (9-Level)

  6.4.1. A 9-level can be expected to fill positions such as flight chief, zone superintendents,
  and various staff positions.

  6.4.2. Must be a SMSgt for award of the 9-skill level.

  6.4.3. Completion of Civil Engineer Superintendent Course (Air Force Institute of
  Technology (AFIT) WMGT 570) is prerequisite for award of the 9-level.


                                          14
      6.4.4. Should pursue increased knowledge of budget, manpower, resources, and personnel
      management.

      6.4.5. After completion of CCAF, recommend the pursuit of additional higher education
      and completion of courses outside of their career AFS.

   6.5. Civil Engineer Manager (CEM).

      6.5.1. CEMs work in a variety of similar jobs and functional areas where general
      managerial and supervisory abilities can be most effectively used and challenged.

      6.5.2. Must be selected for CMSgt and possess qualifications as a 3E191.

      6.5.3. Resident graduation of the USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA) is a prerequisite
      for CMSgt sew-on (active duty only). Either the in-residence or correspondence course is
      required for Air National Guard/Air Force Reserve Command (ANG/AFRC) personnel.

      6.5.4. Completion of the Chief Leadership Course is mandatory.

7. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the HVAC/R career field. The
spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet the training requirements. The
strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce duplication of training and eliminate a
disjointed approach to training. The following decisions were made at the career field Training
Planning Team (TPT) conference held at Sheppard AFB, TX in January 2005.

   7.1. Initial Skills Training. The initial skills course was reviewed for content. Additions,
   deletions, and modifications were made to the course. Wartime training tasks were identified.
   Additional contingency training was also identified.

   7.2. Five Level Upgrade Training Requirements. Existing CDCs were reviewed and
   updated to ensure only current material remained and new technology information was added.

   7.3. Seven Level Upgrade Training Requirements. 7-level training requirements were
   reviewed. Civil Engineering common 7-level training was discontinued in favor of AFSC
   specific 7-level training.

   7.4. Proficiency Training. Any additional knowledge and skill requirements that were not
   taught through initial skills or upgrade training are assigned as continuation training.

      7.4.1. The purpose of continuation training is to provide training exceeding minimum
      upgrade training requirements with emphasis on present and future duty positions.

      7.4.2. MAJCOMs must develop a continuation-training program that ensures personnel in
      the HVAC/R career field receive the necessary training at the appropriate point in their
      careers.



                                             15
     7.4.3. The training program will identify both mandatory and optional training
     requirements.

  7.5. Supplemental Training. Subject Matter Experts (SME) and the Training Committee
  reviewed supplemental training courses for technical accuracy and identified training that was
  no longer required. They revalidated the remaining courses as necessary to fully support
  career progression in the AFS.

  7.6. CerTest. Originally, the CerTest program was developed to support transition training
  and meet DoD certification requirements. Now, it is also the singular platform to launch
  AFQTP tests and supplement the evaluation of OJT.

8. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Academic Programs. Airmen are
automatically enrolled in CCAF upon completion of basic military training. CCAF provides the
opportunity to obtain an Associate in Applied Sciences Degree. In addition to its associate’s
degree program, CCAF offers the following:

  8.1. Occupational Instructor Certification. Upon completion of instructor qualification
  training (consisting of the instructor methods course and supervised practice teaching), CCAF
  instructors who possess an associates degree or higher may be nominated by their school
  commander and/or commandant for certification as an occupational instructor.

  8.2. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill
  certification is awarded for the primary occupational specialty. The College uses a
  competency-based assessment process for trade skill certification at one of four proficiency
  levels: Apprentice, Journeyman, Craftsman (Supervisor), or Master Craftsman (Manager).
  All are transcribed on the CCAF transcript.

  8.3. The Mechanical and Electrical Technology Associates Degree (4VGA)
  applies to AFSC 3E1X1.

     8.3.1. Degree Requirements. Prior to completing an Associates Degree, the
     individual must be awarded a 5-level and the following requirements must be met:

        Course                                                    Semester Hours

        Technical Education                                               24
        Leadership, Management, and Military Studies                      6
        Physical Education                                                 4
        General Education                                                 15
        Program Elective                                                  15
        Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and
        Military Studies; or General Education

        Total                                                             64




                                            16
8.3.2. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of
Technical Core subjects and courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours
applied from Technical Core or Technical Elective subjects and courses.

  Technical Core Requirements                               Semester Hours

  CCAF Internship                                                   16
  Electrical Power Production                                       20
  Electrical Systems                                                20
  Heating Systems                                                   20
  Refrigeration and Air Conditioning                                20

  Technical Electives                                       Semester Hours

  AF Enlisted Professional Military Education                       12
  Air Distribution and Filtering Systems                             3
  Alternate Heating and Cooling                                      3
  Blueprint Reading/Schematic Diagrams                              6
  Building Codes and Ordinance                                       3
  Computer Science                                                   6
  Control Systems/Maintenance                                        6
  Electronics                                                        6
  Engine Principles                                                  3
  Environmental Awareness                                            3
  Environmental Compliance                                           3
  Industrial Management                                              3
  Industrial Safety                                                  3
  Motor, Starter, and Control Devices                                6
  Quality Assurance                                                  3
  Technical Mathematics (College Algebra or Higher)                  3
  Technical Physics                                                  4
  Technical Writing                                                  3
  Welding and Pipefitting                                           3

8.3.3. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Professional
military education, civilian management courses accepted in transfer and/or by testing
credit.

8.3.4. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by
completion of Basic Military Training.

8.3.5. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the
criteria for application of courses to the general education requirements and be in
agreement with the definitions of applicable general education subjects/courses as
provided in the CCAF General Catalog.

  General Education                                         Semester Hours

                                       17
      Oral Communication                                                 3
        Speech
      Written Communication                                              3
        English Composition
      Mathematics                                                        3
        An intermediate algebra or college-level mathematics
        course that satisfies the delivering institution’s
        mathematics requirement for graduation. If an
        acceptable mathematics course is applied as a
        Technical or Program Elective, a natural science
        course may be substituted for mathematics.
      Social Science                                                     3
        Anthropology, Archaeology, Economics, Geography,
        Government, History, Political Science, Psychology,
        Sociology
      Humanities                                                         3
        Fine Arts (criticism, appreciation, historical
        significance), foreign language, literature, philosophy,
        religion

   8.3.6. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable technical
   education, Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (LMMS), or general education
   requirements; Natural science courses meeting the general education requirement
   application criteria; Foreign language credit earned at Defense Language Institute or
   through Defense Language Proficiency Test; Maximum of six semester hours of CCAF
   degree-applicable technical course credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be
   applied. See the CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied
   Sciences degree for this specialty.

8.4. Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is encouraged for all. Individuals
desiring to become an AETC Instructor should be actively pursuing an associate degree. A
degreed faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern Association of
Colleges and Schools.




                                          18
9. Career Field Path. The following chart depicts this specialty’s career path.




                          HVAC/R Enlisted Career Pyramid

                                                               22 yrs
                                                               Average
                              Civil Engineer                                          HQ, FOA, & Other
                                Manager
                                                                                               Master Badge
                                                                       20 yrs
                        Superintendent                 9               Average
                                                  LEVEL

                                                                             16
                                               7 LEVEL                       Averag


                                                        Worke                   13 yrs
                             7 LEVEL
                                                       Superviso
         Senior Badge
                                          CRAFTSMAN
                                               TECH SCHOOL

                                                5 LEVEL
                                                                                         6 yrs
                                                      Section                            Averag
                                                   Worker/Supervisor

                                       JOURNEYMAN                                           36 months
                                   CDC/OJT/QTP             (15 months OJT)

                                                3 LEVEL

        Basic Badge                                                                                16 months
                                                                   Section

                            APPRENTICE
       Initial Skills
                                                                       Trainee/Worke


                          TECH SCHOOL                                                 Studen

                        BASIC MILITARY TRAINING                                          Student




                                                  19
      9.1. Enlisted Career Path

Table: Enlisted Career Path
                                                                       GRADE REQUIREMENTS
Education and Training Requirements                  Rank         Average    Earliest High Year Of Tenure
                                                                  Sew-On     Sew-On         (HYT)
Basic Military Training school
Apprentice Technical School                          Amn          6 months
(3-Skill Level)                                      A1C         16 months
Upgrade To Journeyman                                SRA           3 years        28 months                12 Years
(5-Skill Level)                                                                  (22 months
-- Complete all core and duty-related                                            for Below-
tasks identified in CFETP.                                                        The Zone)
- Minimum 15 months on-the-job training
(9 months for retrainees)
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when
available.
Airman Leadership School                                                            Trainer
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time in             - Must be qualified and certified to perform the tasks to be trained.
service or be a SSgt Selectee.                     - Must attend formal OJT Trainer Training.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt
sew-on (Active Duty Only).
Upgrade To Craftsman                                 SSgt         7.5 years        3 years                 20 Years
(7-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SSgt.
- 12 months OJT (6 months for retrainees)
- Complete 7-level Craftsman Course.
- Complete all core and duty related tasks
identified in CFETP
                                                                                     Certifier
                                                   - SSgt with 5-skill level or civilian equivalent.
                                                   - Attend formal OJT Certifier Course.
                                                   - Be a person other than the trainer (for core and critical tasks only).
Noncommissioned Officer Academy                       TSgt       12.5 years         5 years                24 Years
- Must be a TSgt or TSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
MSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).                      MSgt         16 years         8 years                 26 Years
USAF Senior NCO Academy
- Must be a SMSgt, SMSgt selectee, or
selected MSgt
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
CMSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only)
Upgrade To Superintendent                           SMSgt        19.2 years        11 years                28 Years
(9-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SMSgt.
- Complete AFIT WMGT 570, Civil Engineer
Superintendent Course.
Civil Engineer Manager (CEM)                        CMSgt        21.5 years        14 years                30 Years
- Completion of Chief Leadership course is
Mandatory




                                                         20
9.2. CE Occupational Badge. The Civil Engineer badge reflects a great history and tradition.
By wearing it, you will be recognized by your fellow Airmen as having achieved an expected
level of competence. The multitude of engineers before you established this expectation through
excellent service in both peace and war. Eligibility criteria for award and wear of AF
occupational badges can be found in AFI 36-2923, Aeronautical, Duty, and Occupational
Badges.




                                          Master
     Worn as a master sergeant or above with 5 years in the specialty from award of the 7-
                                         skill level




                  Basic                                              Senior
      Worn upon completion of technical                   Worn after award of the 7-skill
                  school                                              level



                                      CE Badge Heraldry
    The gear wheel and compass have historically been used to represent the engineering
    profession, in both the military and civilian sector. The gear represents the essence of
    engineering: applying scientific principles and technology to practical ends. To Air
    Force engineers, the gear symbolizes an element (representing the built environment)
    that meshes with other environments (weapon systems and trained personnel) to enable
    the Air Force to perform its mission. The compass is a precision tool historically used
    by engineers in designing and constructing facilities and equipment. The gear and
    compass together symbolize all the diverse specialties within Air Force Civil Engineer.
    Finally, the wings help to portray the fundamental linkage between the engineering and
    aviation components; and that the built environment is the foundation supporting Air
    Force mission and people.




                                            21
               SECTION C - SKILL LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

10. Purpose. The various skill levels in the career field are defined in terms of tasks and
knowledge requirements for the HVAC/R career ladder. They are stated in broad, general terms
and establish the standards of performance. An all-encompassing core task list has been
developed for this specialty because of the diversity of the missions supported and the equipment
installed to meet mission requirements. Core tasks (and diamond tasks as applicable),
knowledge items, and skill requirements for this specialty are identified in the STS. Completion
of the mandatory 3-level awarding course, the mandatory completion of CDCs, the mandatory
completion of applicable AFQTPs and CerTests, and the mandatory 7-level Craftsman course,
comprise Air Force requirements.


11. Specialty Qualification.

  11.1. Apprentice (3-Level) Training Requirements.

     11.1.1. Specialty Qualification.

        11.1.1.1. Knowledge. Completion of the HVAC/R Apprentice course satisfies these
        requirements.

        11.1.1.2. Education. Completion of high school or General Education Development
        (GED) with courses in mathematics, general science, physics, shop mechanics,
        electricity and computer fundamentals is desirable.

        11.1.1.3. Training. Completion of the HVAC/R Apprentice course is mandatory for
        award of this skill level.

        11.1.1.4. Experience. N/A

        11.1.1.5. Other.

           11.1.1.5.1. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examination and
           Standards, is mandatory for entry into AFSC.

           11.1.1.5.1. Qualification to operate government vehicles according to AFMAN 24-
           301, Vehicle Operations.

     11.1.2. Training Sources and Resources.

        11.1.2.1. Formal training is accomplished through the HVAC/R Apprentice course at
        Sheppard AFB, TX.

        11.1.2.2. The Course Objective List (COL) (Part II, Section B of this CFETP) identifies
        all the knowledge and tasks, with their respective standards.


                                               22
     11.1.2.3. When available, AFQTPs and associated CerTests are mandatory for use
     during UGT/QT on all core tasks, critical tasks, and diamond (♦) tasks.

  11.1.3. Implementation.

     11.1.3.1. The 3-skill level is awarded upon graduating the HVAC/R Apprentice course
     along with completion of the common-core training.

11.2. Journeyman (5-Level) Training Requirements.

  11.2.1. Specialty Qualification.

     11.2.1.1. Knowledge. Principles of HVAC/R systems, controls and components,
     combustion systems, air and water balancing, non-electric kitchen equipment, industrial
     air compressors, interpreting drawings and schematics and fundamentals of HVAC/R
     equipment and troubleshooting techniques are all required knowledge.

     11.2.1.2. Education. N/A

     11.2.1.3. Training. The following training is mandatory for award of the 5-skill level:

       11.2.1.3.1. Completion of 5-skill level CDCs.

       11.2.1.3.2. Certification of all 5-level core tasks identified with a single asterisk (*)
       in the 5-level core task column of the STS.

       11.2.1.3.3. Completion of AFQTPs for assigned core tasks and diamond (♦) tasks.

       11.2.1.3.4. Completion of CerTests for all diamond (♦) tasks with a minimum of
       80%.

       11.2.1.3.5. Certification of duty position requirements identified by the supervisor.

       11.2.1.3.6. The following training is desirable and strongly encouraged:

          11.2.1.3.6.1. Completion of the HVAC/R Control Systems course (when
          available).

          11.2.1.3.6.2.. Completion of the Advanced Air Conditioning and Refrigeration
          Systems course (when available).

     11.2.1.4. Experience.

       11.2.1.4.1. Qualification in and possession of 3-skill level.




                                         23
        11.2.1.4.2. Operation, maintenance and repair of HVAC/R equipment and control
        systems.

        11.2.1.4.3. Minimum 15 months on-the-job training (9 months for re-trainees).

     11.2.1.5. Other. N/A

  11.2.2. Training Sources and Resources.

     11.2.2.1. CDC 3E151, HVAC/R Journeyman.

     11.2.2.2. HVAC/R Control Systems course (when available).

     11.2.2.3. Advanced Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Systems course (when
     available).

     11.2.2.4. The STS (Part II, Section A of the CFETP) identifies all core tasks required
     for qualification in the individual’s duty position.

     11.2.2.5. Qualified trainers provide upgrade and qualification training for duty
     positions, managed programs, and/or equipment to be used.

  11.2.3. Implementation. Entry into 5-level upgrade training is initiated after the trainee
  completes the 3-level school and is assigned to his or her first duty station. Also,
  qualification training is initiated any time individuals are assigned duties they are not
  certified to perform. AFQTPs are used concurrently to obtain necessary duty position
  qualifications.

11.3. Craftsman (7-Level) Training Requirements.

  11.3.1. Specialty Qualification.

     11.3.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge of the following areas is mandatory:
     Thermodynamics, psychrometrics and associate mathematics, industrial water
     treatment, environmental regulations for fuels, refrigerants and hazardous materials, and
     both military and commercial publications.

     11.3.1.2. Education.

        11.3.1.2.1. Completion of the CE 7-level Common Core Distance Learning Module
        is mandatory.

        11.3.1.2.2. To assume the rank of SSgt, individuals must successfully complete
        Airman Leadership School (active duty only).




                                         24
     11.3.1.2.3. To assume the rank of MSgt, individuals must successfully complete the
     NCO Academy (active duty only).

     11.3.1.2.4. For ANG/AFRC, completion of Air Force Institute for Advanced
     Distributive Learning (AFIADL) courses 00001 (ALS) and 00006 D&E (NCO
     Academy) satisfy rank prerequisites.

  11.3.1.3. Training. The following training is mandatory for award of the 7-skill level:

     11.3.1.3.1. Completion of in-residence HVAC/R Craftsman Course is mandatory.

     11.3.1.3.2. Certification of all 5 and 7-skill level core tasks identified with a single
     asterisk (*) in the 5 and 7-skill level core task columns of the STS.

     11.3.1.3.3. Completion of all AFQTPs for assigned core and diamond (♦) tasks

     11.3.1.3.4. Completion of CerTests for all diamond (♦) tasks with a minimum of
     80%.

     11.3.1.3.5. Certification of duty position requirements identified by the supervisor.

     11.3.1.3.6. Completion of any/all of the following advanced courses is highly
     desirable:

        11.3.1.3.6.1. HVAC/R Control Systems Course (when available)

        11.3.1.3.6.2. Advanced Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Systems Course
        (when available)

  11.3.1.4. Experience.

     11.3.1.4.1. Qualification in and possession of a 5-level

     11.3.1.4.2. Must be SSgt with minimum 12 months on-the-job training (6 months
     for re-trainees).

  11.3.1.5. Other. N/A.

11.3.2. Training Sources and Resources.

  11.3.2.1. HVAC/R Craftsman Course .

  11.3.2.2. The STS (Part II, Section A of this CFETP) identifies all core tasks required
  for qualification in the individual’s duty position.




                                       25
     11.3.2.3. Qualified trainers provide upgrade and qualification training for duty
     positions, managed programs, and/or equipment to be used.

     11.3.2.4. NCO Academy Course (correspondence).

     11.3.2.5. HVAC/R Control Systems Course (when available).

     11.3.2.6. Advanced Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Course (when available).

  11.3.3. Implementation. Entry into 7-level training is initiated when an individual is
  selected for SSgt and has fulfilled all 5-level requirements. Qualification training is
  initiated any time an individual is assigned duties that they are not certified to perform.
  AFQTPs are used concurrently to obtain necessary duty position qualifications.

11.4. Superintendent (9-Level) Training Requirements.

  11.4.1. Specialty Qualification.

     11.4.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of Air Force training programs, CE
     policies, practices, and procedures of base maintenance and operations, crafts, facilities,
     equipment, and systems. Additionally, knowledge is mandatory of HVAC/R electrical,
     electronic and pneumatic control systems, interpretations and applications of wiring
     schematics, diagrams, maintenance, work force management, safety and environmental
     concerns.

     11.4.1.2. Education.

        11.4.1.2.1. Completion of Senior NCO Academy is mandatory prior to award of 9-
        skill level.

        11.4.1.2.2. ANG/AFRC must complete AFIADL course 00012 (computer base CD-
        ROM) or in-residence Senior NCO Academy course prior to award of the 9-skill
        level.

        11.4.1.2.3. Completion of AFIT WMGT Civil Engineer Superintendent course is
        mandatory prior to award of 9-skill level.

     11.4.1.3. Training. Completion of duty position training requirements is mandatory.

     11.4.1.4. Experience.

        11.4.1.4.1. Qualification in and possession of 7-skill level is mandatory.

        11.4.1.4.2. Minimum rank of SMSgt with experience directing functions such as
        inspecting, operating, maintaining and repairing HVAC/R systems.



                                          26
     11.4.1.5. Other. N/A

  11.4.2. Training Sources and Resources.

     11.4.2.1. In-residence Senior NCO Academy located at Maxwell AFB - Gunter Annex
     AL.

     11.4.2.2. Senior NCO Academy Course 00012 (exportable computer based CD-ROM).

     11.4.2.3. Civil Engineer Superintendent Course, WMGT 570, conducted at AFIT,
     Wright-Patterson AFB, OH.

  11.4.3. Implementation.

     11.4.3.1. Entry into 9-level training is initiated when an individual is selected for
     SMSgt and is a fully qualified 7-Level. Qualification training is initiated any time an
     individual is assigned duties they are not certified to perform.

11.5. Civil Engineer Manager.

  11.5.1. Specialty Qualification.

     11.5.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of managing and directing personnel
     resource activities, interpreting and enforcing policy and applicable directives,
     establishing control procedures to meet work goals and standards, recommending or
     initiating actions to improve operational efficiency, planning and programming work
     commitments and schedules, and developing plans regarding facilities, supplies, and
     equipment procurement and maintenance.

     11.5.1.2. Education. Must be a resident graduate of Senior NCO Academy (active
     duty only). Completion of the Chief Leadership Course is mandatory.

     11.5.1.3. Training. N/A

     11.5.1.4. Experience. Possess qualifications in feeder specialty (3E191) prior to award
     of Civil Engineer Manager Code 3E000. Individual must possess the managerial ability
     to plan, direct, coordinate, implement and control a wide range of work activity.

     11.5.1.5. Other. N/A

  11.5.2. Training Sources and Resources. N/A

  11.5.3. Implementation. Entry into Civil Engineer Manager Code 3E000 is initiated
  when an individual is selected for CMSgt and possesses qualifications in a feeder specialty
  (3E090, 3E191, 3E291, 3E391, 3E490, 3E591, and 3E691).



                                         27
                        SECTION D - RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS

12. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints, which preclude optimal and
desired training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and
manpower. Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement
describing what effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section
are actions required, office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource
constraints will be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

   12.1 Equipment Constraints:

      12.1.1. Constraints: New equipment is required due to course revisions identified at the
      2005 TPT based on changes to training standards.

      12.1.2. Time/Manpower/Student Man-years Constraints: None.

13. Apprentice (3-Level) Training: This course is in the final stages of development/revision.
Per the approved Course Resource Estimate (CRE), funding has been provided for the following
equipment requirements: one water chiller, 15 clamp-on meters, 110 multimeter kits, one
HAZCOM, PPE and safety video set, 16 vacuum gauge meters, one soot powder vacuum, 16
refrigerant charging scales, four ADR 300 refrigeration units, 14 printed circuit boards (N.9.2.)
and a field water heater (M-80). Manpower authorizations should be transferred from the
existing HVAC/R apprentice course to the new course.

14. Journeyman (5-Level) Training. The HVAC/R Control Systems course and Advanced Air
Conditioning and Refrigeration Systems course are both in development/revision. They’re being
designed to replace the three existing HVAC/R advanced 5-level courses. Minimal new
equipment should be required for these two new courses. The CREs will list specific resource
information. Manpower authorizations will be identified in the future for these two new courses.

15. Craftsman (7-level) Level Training. None.

16. Superintendent (9-Level) Training. None.




                                             28
                  SECTION E – TRANSITIONAL TRAINING GUIDE

17. There are currently no transition training requirements. This area is reserved.




                                          29
                                           PART II

                   SECTION A - SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC for the 3-
level HVAC/R Apprentice Course with the class beginning 10 Aug 07 and graduating 10 Jan 08.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201v5, Air Force Training Program, Career Field
Education and Training, this STS:

  2.1. Lists in Column 1 (Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical References) the most common
  tasks, knowledge, and Technical References (TR) necessary for Airmen to perform duties in
  the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level.

  2.2. Column 2 (Core Tasks) identifies core tasks (specialty-wide training requirements) by an
  asterisk (*) in the 5 and/or 7-skill level column(s). As a minimum, trainees must complete
  hands-on certification on all core and critical tasks for skill-level upgrade.

     2.2.1. All tasks in the 3-level course column are considered wartime tasks. Consequently,
     in response to a wartime scenario, these tasks will be taught in the 3-level course in a
     streamlined training environment.

     2.2.2. Tasks identified by a diamond (♦) in column 2 are considered contingency tasks for
     both the 5- and 7-skill level and are extremely important to the career field. However,
     equipment shortfalls at most locations have created problems with the actual hands-on
     certification of these tasks. In instances where required equipment is not available for
     instruction, completion of the task’s AFQTP and passing the corresponding CerTest is all
     that is required for upgrade and qualification training.

  2.3. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of task and
  knowledge training requirements. The CE CFM’s approved automated training record AFTR
  (Air Force Training Record) must be used to document technician qualifications. Task
  certification must show training start and completion dates along with initials of the trainee,
  trainer, and certifier. All non-core tasks require training completion date and initials of the
  trainee and trainer only.

  2.4. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the
  proficiency the graduate must demonstrate on the job. The training and knowledge for
  column 4 tasks were accomplished in both the initial skills course and correspondence course.
  In addition, Airmen can view the CADRE/AFSC/CDC listing maintained by the unit
  education and training manager for current CDC listings.

  2.5. Identifies qualitative requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key
  used to indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career
  development courses.



                                            30
2.6. Becomes a Job Qualification Standard (JQS) for on-the-job training when placed in
AF Form 623, Individual Training Record, and used according to AFI 36-2201v3, Air Force
Training Program on Job Training Administration and/or AFI 36-2201v5, Air Force Training
Program, Career Field Education and Training. For OJT, the tasks in Column 1 are trained
and qualified to the go/no go level. Go means the individual can perform the task without
assistance and meets local requirements for accuracy, timeliness, and correct use of
procedures. AFQTPs, when available, shall be used to identify Air Force standardized
procedures. When used as a JQS, the following requirements apply:

  2.6.1. Documentation. Document and certify completion of training.

     2.6.1.1. Identify current duty position requirements by circling the subparagraph
     number or letter next to the task statement. Additionally, all core (*) and diamond (♦)
     identified tasks should be circled. Document task completion by annotating columns
     3A, 3B, 3C, 3D and 3E, as appropriate.
     NOTE: All entries shall be made in pencil.

     2.6.1.2. Enter the start date of the AFQTP on the AFQTP documentation record. Once
     completed enter the completion date. When hands-on training is started and
     completed, annotate the STS accordingly.

     2.6.1.3. Transcribing from old document (paper or automated) to CFETP. Use the
     new STS to identify and certify all current and past task qualifications.

        2.6.1.3.1. For tasks previously certified and still required in the current duty
        position, circle the subparagraph number next to the task statement and enter the
        current date in the completion column. Trainee initials in the trainee column and the
        current task certifier or supervisor/trainer initials in the trainer column.

        2.6.1.3.2. For tasks previously certified but not required in the current duty position
        (do not circle), transcribe only the previous certification dates (no initials). If the
        task later becomes required in the duty position, recertify using current dates and
        initials.

        2.6.1.3.3. Annotate the AF Form 623a, (for example, “I certify the information
        contained in the CFETP dated XX was transcribed to the CFETP dated XX, and the
        trainee was given the superseded CFETP.” Signed and dated by the supervisor and
        trainee).




                                          31
         2.6.1.4. Documenting Career Knowledge. When a CDC is not available, the
         supervisor identifies STS training references that the trainee requires for career
         knowledge IAW AFI 36-2201v3, Air Force Training Program on Job Training
         Administration, and ensures, as a minimum, that trainees cover all mandatory items
         specified within the Enlisted Classification Directory. For two-time CDC exam
         failures, the unit commander will take appropriate action IAW AFI 36-2201v3, Air
         Force Training Program on Job Training Administration,. NOTE: Career knowledge
         must be documented prior to submitting a CDC waiver.

         2.6.1.5. Decertification and Desertification. Once verified that an Airman is
         unqualified on a task, the supervisor must erase previous certification date and enter the
         Airman into qualification training. The reason for decertification is annotated on the
         AF Form 623a (On-The-Job Training Record Continuation Sheet). After the trainee
         demonstrates competence, use the normal certification process to recertify the
         individual.

   2.7. The STS also serves as a development guide for promotion tests used in the Weighted
   Airman Promotion System (WAPS). Senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in
   their career fields develop specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) at the USAF Occupational
   Measurement Squadron. The objective of these tests is to sample one’s STS knowledge.
   Working off this premise, the test development team unanimously determined the appropriate
   subject matter areas for promotion to higher grades. Note: Test questions stem from study
   references listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are in chapter 14 of AFI
   36-2606, United States Air Force Reenlistment, Retention, and NCO Status Programs.
   WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard or Air Reserve Forces.

3. Recommendations. AETC welcomes comments and recommendations concerning the
quality of training AETC graduates receive. Reference specific STS paragraphs and address
correspondence regarding changes to 782 TRG/TGAV, 620 9th Avenue, Suite 3, Sheppard AFB
TX 76311-2268. For supervisor’s convenience, a Customer Service Information Line (CSIL)
has been installed to expedite feedback on graduates who may have received over or under
training on task/knowledge items listed in this training standard. For a quick response to
problems, call our CSIL at DSN: 736-2574 or e-mail csil@sheppard.af.mil any time day or night.


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE


OFFICIAL                                             DEL EUBAUGH, Maj Gen, USAF
                                                     The Civil Engineer
                                                     DCS/Installations and Logistics


3 Attachments
1. Qualitative Requirements
2. 3-, 5-, and 7-level career field training requirements
3. AFQTP Documentation record


                                                32
This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                       Initials (Written)             SSAN

                                               Printed Name Of Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                    N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I


N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I



                                                 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                             Proficiency Code Key
                                    Scale     Definition: The individual
                                    Value
                                       1      Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (Extremely
                                              Limited)
          Task                         2      Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
      Performance                      3      Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
         Levels                        4      Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task.
                                              (Highly Proficient)
                                       a      Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)
         *Task                         b      Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)
       Knowledge                       c      Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                                              (Operating Principles)
          Levels                      d       Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
                                      A       Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
       **Subject                      B       Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (Principles)
       Knowledge                      C       Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
         Levels                       D       Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)
     Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

X This mark is used alone in the course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.

 NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war time.




                                                                     33                                              Attachment 1
                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT                         Training/Information Provided (See Note)

 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A         B       C        A         B        C         D        E             A                B                C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                Diamond                     Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                          5 Level 7 Level   Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course
                                                 Tasks                                                                              D/L    Course CDC       Course     D/L
1. CE ORGANIZATION AND CAREER                                                                                               -         -       -       -        -           -
  FIELD STRUCTURE
  TR: AFDD 2-4-2; AFIs 10-209, 10-
  210,10-211, 32-1022, 36-2101, 38-101,
  51-903; Enlisted Classification Directory;
  AF PAM 32-1004 Vol 1-6; War
  Mobilization Plan (WMP) 1, Annex S
 1.1. Civil Engineer (CE) Structure                                                                                         -        A        -       B        -           -
 1.2. Progression in Career Ladder                                                                                          -        A        -       B        -           -
 1.3. Duties and Responsibilities                                                                                           -        -        -       -        -           -
 1.3.1. Peacetime                                                                                                           -        A        -       B        -           -
 1.3.2. Contingency                                                                                                         -        A        -       B        -           -
 1.4. Functions of:                                                                                                         -        -        -       -        -           -
 1.4.1. Base Civil Engineer (BCE)                                                                                           -        A        -       B        -           -
 1.4.2. Prime BEEF                                                                                                          -        A        -       B        -           -
 1.4.3. RED HORSE                                                                                                           -        A        -       B        -           -
 1.4.4. HQ Air National Guard (ANG) Air                                                                                     -        A        -       B        -           -
       Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
 1.4.5. HQ Air Force Civil Engineer                                                                                         -         -       -       A        -       B
       Support Agency (AFCESA)
 1.4.6. HQ Air Force Center For                                                                                             -         -       -       -        -       A
       Environmental Excellence (AFCEE)
 1.4.7. Air Force Institute of Technology                                                                                   -         -       -       -        -       A
       (AFIT)
 1.4.8. Air Force Research Laboratory                                                                                       -         -       -       -        -       A
       (AFRL)
 1.5. Resources                                                                                                             -         -       -       -        -           -
 1.5.1. Assess manpower requirements                                                                                        -         -       -       -        -           b
 1.5.2. Identify budget requirements                                                                                        -         -       -       -        -           b
 1.5.3. Determine equipment requirements                                                                                    -         -       -       -        -           b
 1.5.4. Use Allowance Standards (AS)                                                                                        -         -       -       -        -           b
 1.5.5 Research, Development, and                                                                                           -         -       -       -        -           -
       Acquisition (RD&A)
   TR: DoDD 5000.1
 1.5.5.1 Process                                                                                                            -         -       -       -        -       B
 1.5.5.2 Unit Responsibilities                                                                                              -         -       -       -        -       B
 1.5.5.3 Major Command Responsibilities                                                                                     -         -       -       -        -       B
 1.5.6 Assess vehicle requirements                                                                                          -         -       -       -        -       b
 1.5.7 Requesting contract services                                                                                         -         -       -       -        -       b
 1.5.8 Requesting Simplified Acquisition                                                                                    -         -       -       -        -       B
       of Base Engineering Requirements
       (SABER) contract
 1.5.9 Geo Base Technologies                                                                                                -         -       -       B        -       B
 1.5.10 Quality Assurance Personnel                                                                                         -         -       -       -        -       -
       (QAP) duties
   TR: Federal Acquisition Regulation Part
       37.6; AFI 63-124; AFPAM 32-
       1004 v2
 1.5.10.1 Evaluate contractor's                                                                                             -         -       -       -        -           -
         performance




                                                             34                                                            Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT                         Training/Information Provided (See Note)

 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A         B       C        A         B        C         D        E             A                B                C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                Diamond                     Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                          5 Level 7 Level   Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course
                                                 Tasks                                                                              D/L    Course CDC       Course     D/L
1.5.10.2 Document contractor's                                                                                              -         -       -       -        -           -
        performance
1.5.10.3 Maintain surveillance                                                                                              -         -       -       -        -           -
        documentation
2 SUPERVISION                                                                                                               -         -       -       -        -           -
  TR: AFIs 36-2201, 36-2403, 36-3104;
  Enlisted Classification Directory;
  AFPAM 36-3627; AFP 35-49; DoDD
  5500-7
2.1 Orient new personnel                                                                                                    -         -       -       -        -           b
2.2 Assign personnel to work crew                                                                                           -         -       -       -        -           b
2.3 Coordinate work assignments                                                                                             -         -       -       -        -           b
2.4 Schedule work assignments and                                                                                           -         -       -       -        -           b
    priorities
2.5 Establish:                                                                                                              -         -       -       -        -           -
2.5.1 Work Methods                                                                                                          -         -       -       -        -           b
2.5.2 Controls                                                                                                              -         -       -       -        -           b
2.5.3 Performance Standards                                                                                                 -         -       -       -        -           b
2.6 Evaluate work performance of                                                                                            -         -       -       -        -           b
    subordinate personnel
2.7 Resolve technical problems for                                                                                          -         -       -       -        -           b
    subordinate personnel
2.8 Direct projects                                                                                                         -         -       -       -        -           b
3 TRAINING                                                                                                                  -         -       -       -        -           -
  TR: AFIs 36-2101, 36-2201, 36-2202;
  Enlisted Classification Directory; AF
  Education & Training Course
  Announcements (ETCA)
3.1 Evaluate personnel to determine need                                                                                    -         -       -       a        -           b
    for training
3.2 Enlisted Specialty Training                                                                                             -         -       -       -        -           -
    Supervision
3.2.1 Prepare job qualification standards                                                                                   -         -       -       a        -           b
3.2.2 Conduct training                                                                                                      -         -       -       a        -           b
3.2.3 Counsel trainees on their progress                                                                                    -         -       -       a        -           b
3.2.4 Monitor Training Effectiveness of:                                                                                    -         -       -       -        -           -
3.2.4.1 Career knowledge                                                                                                    -         -       -       a        -           b
3.2.4.2 Job proficiency upgrade                                                                                             -         -       -       a        -           b
3.2.4.3 Qualification                                                                                                       -         -       -       a        -           b
3.3 Maintain training records                                                                                               -         -       -       a        -           b
3.4 Evaluate training programs                                                                                              -         -       -       a        -           b
    effectiveness
3.5 Recommend people for training                                                                                           -         -       -       a        -       b
3.6 AETC Training Management System                                                                                         -         -       -       A        -       B
    (Training Allocation)
3.7 Managing Certification and Testing                                                                                      -         -       -       A        -       B
    (CerTest)
3.8 National/DoD Certification                                                                                              -         -       -       A        -       B
    requirements
3.9 Air Force Quality Training Package                                                                                      -         -       -       A        -       B
    (AFQTP) Requirements


                                                             35                                                            Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT                         Training/Information Provided (See Note)

 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A         B       C        A         B        C         D        E             A                B                C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                Diamond                     Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                          5 Level 7 Level   Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course
                                                 Tasks                                                                              D/L    Course CDC       Course     D/L
4 ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS                                                                                                   -         -       -       -        -           -
  AND COMPLIANCE
  TR: AFIs 32-4002, 32-7045, 32-7061;
  Chemicals in Your Community (EPA
  550-K-93-003); EO 12856
4.1 Environmental Compliance (ECAMP,                                                                                        -         -       -       A        -       B
   ESOH)
4.2 Environmental Protection Agency                                                                                         -         -       -       A        -       B
   (EPA)
5 CE MANAGEMENT                                                                                                             -         -       -       -        -           -
  TR: AFIs 32-1022, 32-1031; AFPAM
  32-1098; AFMAN 23-110
5.1 Customer relationships                                                                                                           A        -       B        -       -
5.2 Work identification and authorization                                                                                   -        -        -       A        -       B
5.3 Plan work requirements                                                                                                  -        -        -       A        -       B
5.4 Plan logistics support (CEMAS,                                                                                          -        -        -       A        -       B
   BOM)
5.5 Government Purchase Care (GPC)                                                                                          -         -       -       A        -       B
   Program
5.6 Maintain Recurring Work Program                                                                                         -         -       -       A        -       B
   (RWP)
5.7 Scheduling/time accounting                                                                                              -         -       -       A        -       B
5.8 Warranty/Guarantee Program                                                                                              -         -       -       A        -       B
5.9 Property Accountability                                                                                                           -       -       A        -       B
5.10 Air Force Comprehensive Plan                                                                                           -         -       -       A        -       B
5.11 Legal limits                                                                                                           -         -       -       A        -       B
5.12 Mark "As Built" Drawings                                                                                               -         -       -       A        -       B
5.13 Reimbursements procedures                                                                                              -         -       -       A        -       B
5.14 CE Specific Automated Systems                                                                                          -         -       -       -        -       -
   (Computer) Capability
5.14.1 Perform inputs                                                                                                       -         -       -       a        -       b
5.14.2 Maintain files                                                                                                       -         -       -       a        -       b
5.14.3 Develop automated reports                                                                                            -         -       -       a        -       b
5.14.4 Extract automated reports                                                                                            -         -       -       a        -       b
5.14.5 Perform automated data analysis                                                                                      -         -       -       -        -       b
5.15 Host Tenant and Interservice                                                                                           -         -       -       -        -       A
   Agreements
5.16 Civil Engineer Civilian Management                                                                                     -         -       -       -        -       B
6 AF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND                                                                                                -         -       -       -        -       -
  HEALTH (AFOSH) PROGRAM
  TR: AFOSH STDs 91-301, 91-302, 91-
  501
6.1 Supervisory responsibilities                                                                                           -          -       -       B        -           -
6.2 Hazardous materials/waste handling                                                                                     A          -       -       B        -           -
6.3 Lead-based paint (LBP) hazard                                                                                          A          -       -       B        -           -
  TR: 29 CFR 1926.62; Working With
   Lead-based Paint: Facts and
   Information Applicable to Air Force
   Facilities
6.4 Asbestos awareness                                                                                                     A          -       -       B        -           -
7 PUBLICATIONS                                                                                                             -          -       -       -        -           -


                                                             36                                                            Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT                        Training/Information Provided (See Note)

 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A         B       C        A         B        C         D        E            A                B                C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                Diamond                     Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                          5 Level 7 Level   Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course
                                                 Tasks                                                                              D/L    Course CDC       Course     D/L
7.1 Military                                                                                                               A         -       -       B        -       -
7.2 Commercial                                                                                                             A         -       -       B        -       -
7.3 Engineering Technical Letters (ETL)                                                                                    -         -       -       A        -       B
8 AFS CONVENTIONAL TASKS AND                                                                                               -         -       -       -        -       -
  STANDARDS
  TR: AFIs 90-821, 91-302; AFOSHSTD
  91-501; DOD 6050.5 G-1
8.1 AFOSH Training Standards                                                                                               -         -       -       -        -           -
8.1.1 AFOSH                                                                                                                A                 -       B        -           -
      Training/Standards/Hazards for AFS
8.1.2 Initial Federal Hazard                                                                                               A                 -        -       -           -
      Communication Training Program
      (FHCTP)
8.1.3 Individual responsibilities                                                                                          A                 -       B        -           -
8.1.4 Apply safety practices when                                                                                          -         -       -       -        -           -
      working with:
8.1.4.1 Electrical equipment                                                                                               2b                -       b        -           -
8.1.4.2 Mechanical equipment                                                                                               2b                -       b        -           -
8.1.4.3 Hazardous noise                                                                                                    2b                -       b        -           -
8.1.4.4 Flammables                                                                                                         2b                -       b        -           -
8.1.4.5 Chemicals/Acids                                                                                                     a                -       b        -           -
8.1.4.6 Refrigerants                                                                                                       2b                -       b        -           -
8.1.4.7 Steam                                                                                                              2b                -       b        -           -
8.1.4.8 Hot Water                                                                                                          2b                -       b        -           -
8.1.4.9 Air pressure                                                                                                       2b                -       b        -           -
8.1.4.10 Asbestos                                                                                                           a                -       b        -           -
8.1.5 Apply first aid procedures for:                                                                                       -        -       -       -        -           -
8.1.5.1 Electrical shock                                                                                                    b                -       b        -           -
8.1.5.2 Burns                                                                                                               a                -       b        -           -
8.1.6 Perform cardiopulmonary                                                                                              2b        -       -       -        -           -
      resuscitation (CPR)
8.1.7 Backflow prevention to protect                                                                                       A                 -       B        -           -
      potable water supplies
8.1.8 Manual lifting awareness                                                                                             A                 -       B        -           -
8.1.9 Identification of hazardous piping                                                                                   A                 -       B        -           -
8.2 AFS SPECIFIC PUBLICATIONS                                                                                              -         -       -       -        -           -
  TR: TO 00-5-1, TO 00-5-18,
    http://www.e-
    publishing.af.mil/orgs.asp?type=pubs
8.2.1 Technical Orders                                                                                                     A                 -       B        -           -
8.2.2 Instructions, Regulations,                                                                                           A                 -       B        -           -
      Pamphlets, and Manuals
8.2.3 National Electric Code (NFPA 70)                                                                                     A                 -       B        -           -
8.2.4 National Electric Safety Code                                                                                        A                 -       B        -           -
8.2.5 ASHRAE Manuals                                                                                                        -                -       B        -           -
8.2.6 ASME Codes                                                                                                            -                -       B        -           -
8.2.7 Manufacturers Manuals                                                                                                 -                -       B        -           -
8.2.8 Use publications to perform                                                                                          1a                -       b        -           -
      maintenance, operations, and
      troubleshooting



                                                             37                                                            Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT                         Training/Information Provided (See Note)

 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A         B       C        A         B        C         D        E             A                B                C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                Diamond                     Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                          5 Level 7 Level   Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course
                                                 Tasks                                                                              D/L    Course CDC       Course     D/L
8.2.9 Use indexes to locate numbers and                                                                                    1a                 -       b        -           -
      titles of instructions, manuals,
      regulations, technical orders, and
      forms
8.3 TOOLS & TEST EQUIPMENT                                                                                                  -         -       -       -        -           -
  TR: AFI 32-1064; TOs 32-1-101, 33A1-
    12-2-1
8.3.1 Maintain and use tools (hand and                                                                                     2b                 -       b        -           -
      powered)
8.3.2 Maintain and use precision                                                                                           1a                 -       b        -           -
      measuring instruments
8.3.3 Maintain and use electrical test                                                                                      -         -       -       -        -           -
      equipment
8.3.3.1 Digital Multimeter                                                                                                 2b                 -       b        -           -
8.3.3.2 Analog Multimeter                                                                                                  2b                 -       b        -           -
8.3.3.3 Ammeter                                                                                                            2b                 -       b        -           -
9 PIPING/TUBING                                                                                                             -         -       -       -        -           -
  TR: TOs 34W4-1-5, 34W4-1-8
9.1 Types & sizes                                                                                                          B                  -       B        -           -
9.2 Fittings                                                                                                               B                  -       B        -           -
9.3 Piping systems fabrication                                                                                                                -       -        -           -
9.3.1 Fabricate piping and tubing systems                   *       *                                                      2b                 -       b        -           -
9.3.2 Install piping and tubing systems                     *       *                                                      2b                 -       b        -           -
9.4 Types and operation of valves                                                                                          A                  -       B        -           -
9.5 Interpret system drawings                                                                                              2b                 -       b        -           -
10 WELDING & CUTTING                                                                                                        -         -       -       -        -           -
  TR: TOs 32-1-101, 32-1-151, 34W4-1-
  5, 34W4-1-8, 42D-1-3
10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                                      -       -        -           -
10.1.1 Acetylene equipment (air and                                                                                        B                  -       B        -           -
     hydrocarbon)
10.1.2 Oxyacetylene equipment                                                                                              B                  -       B        -           -
10.2 Use equipment                                                                                                          -         -       -       -        -           -
10.2.1 Cut                                                                                                                  a                 -       b        -           -
10.2.2 Braze and solder                                     *       *                                                      2b                 -       b        -           -
10.3 Maintain equipment                                                                                                    b                  -       b        -           -
11 HVAC/R PHYSICS                                                                                                           -         -       -       -        -           -
 TR: Environmental Systems
 Technologies 2nd Ed; Principles of
 Refrigeration 5th Ed
11.1 Structure of matter                                                                                                   A                  -       B        -           -
11.2 Energy (Stored, Nonstored,                                                                                            A                  -       B        -           -
   Conversion)
11.3 Laws of thermodynamics                                                                                                A          -       -       B        -           -
11.4 Heat flow (Energy, Measurement,                                                                                       A          -       -       B        -           -
   Transfer)
11.5 Fluid flow (Properties, Statics,                                                                                      A          -       -       B        -           -
   Dynamics)
11.6 Psychrometrics                                                                                                                   -       -                -           -
11.6.1 Properties of air                                                                                                   A          -       -       B        -           -



                                                             38                                                            Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT                         Training/Information Provided (See Note)

 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A         B       C        A         B        C         D        E             A                B                C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                Diamond                     Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                          5 Level 7 Level   Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course
                                                 Tasks                                                                              D/L    Course CDC       Course     D/L
11.6.2 Air-vapor relationship                                                                                              A          -       -       B        -           -
11.6.3 Psychrometric Chart                                                                                                  -         -       -       -        -           -
11.6.3.1 Terms                                                                                                             A          -       -       B        -           -
11.6.3.2 Plotting properties of air                                                                                        1a         -       -       b        -           -
11.6.3.3 Psychrometric processes                                                                                            -         -       -       -        -           -
11.6.3.3.1 Plot processes of conditioned                                                                                   1a         -       -       b        -           -
         air
11.6.3.3.2 Interpretation of plotted                                                                                       A          -       -       B        -           -
         processes
12 AIR and HYDRONIC SYSTEMS                                                                                                 -         -       -       -        -           -
 TR: Environmental Systems Technology
 2nd Ed; Trane Air Conditioning Manual;
 Principles of Refrigeration 5th Ed.;
 Refrigeration and Air Conditioning 4th
 Ed (ARI)
12.1 Air Systems                                                                                                           -          -       -       -        -           -
12.1.1 Principles of fans (types, ratings,                                                                                 A          -       -       B        -           -
     motors, and drives)
12.1.2 Principles of air distribution                                                                                       -         -       -       -        -           -
     systems
12.1.3 Duct airflow characteristics                                                                                        A                  -       B        -           -
12.1.4 Single path                                                                                                         A          -       -       B        -           -
12.1.5 Dual path                                                                                                           A          -       -       B        -           -
12.1.6 Multi-zone                                                                                                          A          -       -       B        -           -
12.1.7 Fan and system curve relationships                                                                                  A          -       -       B        -           -
12.1.8 Adjust dampers and linkages                                                                                         2b         -       -       b        -           -
12.1.9 General procedures for air                                                                                          b          -       -       b        -           -
     balancing
12.1.10 Air volume measurement                                                                                              b         -       -       b        -           -
     (methods, interpretation)
12.1.11 Indoor air quality                                                                                                 B          -       -       B        -           -
12.1.12 Interpret system drawings                                                                                          2b         -       -       b        -           -
12.2 Hydronic Systems                                                                                                       -         -       -       -        -           -
12.2.1 Principles of hydronic distribution                                                                                 A          -       -       B        -           -
     systems
12.2.2 Principles of pumps                                                                                                  -         -       -       -        -           -
12.2.2.1 Types and construction features                                                                                   A          -       -       B        -           -
12.2.2.2 Install circulating pumps                                                                                         1a         -       -       b        -           -
12.2.2.3 Adjust centrifugal water pump                                                                                     a          -       -       b        -           -
       flow
12.2.2.4 Replace packing on water pumps                                                                                     a         -       -       b        -           -
12.2.2.5 Replace mechanical seals                                                                                          2b         -       -       b        -           -
12.2.2.6 Pump and system curve                                                                                             A          -       -       B        -           -
       relationships
12.2.3 Hydronic system flow                                                                                                 -         -       -       -        -           -
12.2.3.1 Hydronic volume measurement                                                                                        a         -       -       b        -           -
       (methods, interpretation)
12.2.3.2 General procedures for hydronic                                                                                    a         -       -       b        -           -
       balancing
12.2.4 Interpret system drawings                                                                                           2b         -       -       b        -           -



                                                             39                                                            Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT                         Training/Information Provided (See Note)

 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A         B       C        A         B        C         D        E             A                B                C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                Diamond                     Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                          5 Level 7 Level   Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course
                                                 Tasks                                                                              D/L    Course CDC       Course     D/L
12.3 Associated Components and                                                                                              -         -       -       -        -           -
   Equipment
12.3.1 Coils (Types & Applications)                                                                                        -          -       -       -        -           -
12.3.1.1 Cooling                                                                                                           A          -       -       B        -           -
12.3.1.2 Heating                                                                                                           A          -       -       B        -           -
12.3.1.3 Preheat                                                                                                           A          -       -       B        -           -
12.3.1.4 Reheat                                                                                                            A          -       -       B        -           -
12.3.2 Fancoil units                                                                                                       A          -       -       B        -           -
12.3.3 Filters                                                                                                             A          -       -       B        -           -
12.4 Perform Recurring Maintenance                                                                                         -          -       -       -        -           -
12.4.1 Determine drive belt types & sizes                                                                                  a          -       -       -        -           -
12.4.2 Inspect and replace drive belts                                                                                     a          -       -       b        -           -
12.4.3 Adjust drive belt tension                                                                                           a          -       -       b        -           -
12.4.4 Adjust pulleys                                                                                                      a          -       -       b        -           -
12.4.5 Clean strainers                                                                                                     a          -       -       b        -           -
12.4.6 Clean air filters                                                                                                   a          -       -       b        -           -
12.4.7 Inspect water valves for leaks                                                                                      a          -       -       b        -           -
12.4.8 Inspect fan coil units                                                                                              a          -       -       b        -           -
12.4.9 Clean air handlers                                                                                                  a          -       -       b        -           -
12.4.10 Clean coils                                                                                                        a          -       -       b        -           -
12.4.11 Service water pumps                                                                                                a          -       -       b        -           -
13 ELECTRICAL                                                                                                              -          -       -       -        -           -
 TR: ANSI Y32.2; AFIs 32-1062, 32-
 1063, 32-1064; National Electric Code
 (NFPA 70); National Electrical Safety
 Code Handbook; TOs 31-1-141-1, 31-1-
 141-2, 31-1-141-3, 31-1-141-5, 31-1-
 141-7, 31-1-141-8, 31-1-141-9
13.1 Fundamentals of electricity (AC and                                                                                   B          -       -       B        -           -
   DC)
13.2 Types of circuits                                                                                                     -          -       -       -        -           -
13.2.1 Line Circuit                                                                                                        A          -       -       B        -           -
13.2.2 Load Circuit                                                                                                        B          -       -       B        -           -
13.2.3 Control Circuit (110/208, AC/DC)                                                                                    B          -       -       B        -           -
13.3 Relationship of current, voltage, and                                                                                 B          -       -       B        -           -
   resistance in circuits
13.4 Interpret electrical drawings and                                                                                     2b         -       -       b        -           -
   symbols
13.5 Wiring Requirements                                                                                                   -          -       -       -        -           -
13.5.1 Supply Voltage                                                                                                      A          -       -       B        -           -
13.5.2 Wiring color code                                                                                                   A          -       -       B        -           -
13.5.3 Wire sizes                                                                                                          A          -       -       B        -           -
13.5.4 Distribution Panels                                                                                                 A          -       -       B        -           -
13.6 Protective devices                                                                                                    -          -       -       -        -           -
13.6.1 Circuit Breakers                                                                                                    A          -       -       B        -           -
13.6.2 Fuses                                                                                                               A          -       -       B        -           -
13.6.3 Ground Fault Current Interrupters                                                                                   A          -       -       B        -           -
     (GFCI)
13.7 Devices                                                                                                               -          -       -       -        -           -
13.7.1 Switches                                                                                                            A          -       -       B        -           -



                                                             40                                                            Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT                        Training/Information Provided (See Note)

 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A         B       C        A         B        C         D        E            A                B                C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                Diamond                     Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                          5 Level 7 Level   Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course
                                                 Tasks                                                                              D/L    Course CDC       Course     D/L
13.7.2 Receptacles                                                                                                         A         -       -       B        -           -
13.7.3 Timers                                                                                                              A         -       -       B        -           -
13.7.4 Types and principles of                                                                                             B         -       -       B        -           -
     transformers
13.7.5 Types and principles of                                                                                             B         -       -       B        -           -
     electromagnetic devices (relays,
     contactors, and across-the-line
     starters)
13.8 Motors                                                                                                                -         -       -       -        -           -
13.8.1 Types and principles (single phase                                                                                  B         -       -       B        -           -
     and three phase)
13.8.2 Replace motors                                                                                                      2b        -       -       b        -           -
13.8.3 Perform operational test                                                                                            2b        -       -       b        -           -
13.8.4 Align                                                                                                               2b        -       -       b        -           -
13.8.5 Electrically connect (single-phase                   *       *                                                      2b        -       -       b        -           -
     and three phase)
13.8.6 Reverse rotation of electric motors                  *       *                                                      2b        -       -       b        -           -
13.8.7 Measure motor current draw                           *       *                                                      2b        -       -       b        -           -
13.8.8 Service electrical motors                                                                                            a        -       -       b        -           -
13.9 Types and principles of motor                                                                                         B         -       -       B        -           -
   controllers and variable frequency
   drives
13.10 Repair Components                                                                                                     -        -       -       -        -           -
13.10.1 Troubleshoot electrical circuits                                                                                   2b        -       -       b        -           -
     and components
13.10.2 Correct malfunctions                                                                                               2b        -       -       b        -           -
13.11 Solder electrical connections                                                                                         a        -       -       b        -
13.12 International Electrical Systems                                                                                      -        -       -       -        -           -
 TR: TO 00-105A-12; AFIs 32-1062,
   32-1063, 32-1064; ANSI Y32.2
13.12.1 Metric measurements                                                                                                A         -       -       B        -           -
13.12.2 Frequency                                                                                                          A         -       -       B        -           -
13.12.3 Voltage                                                                                                            A         -       -       B        -           -
14 HVAC CONTROL SYSTEMS                                                                                                    -         -       -       -        -           -
 TR: AFMAN 32-1093; Automatic
 Controls for Heating and Air
 Conditioning; Refrigeration and Air
 Conditioning Technology 4th Ed;
 Control Systems 2nd Ed; Modern
 Refrigeration and Air Conditioning;
 Control Systems For Heating,
 Ventilation, and Air Conditioning 3rd
 Ed; Environmental Systems
 Technology
14.1 Types                                                                                                                 -         -       -       -        -           -
14.1.1 Pneumatic HVAC Control Systems                                                                                      A         -       -       B        -           -
14.1.2 Electrical HVAC Control Systems                                                                                     A         -       -       B        -           -
14.1.3 Electronic HVAC Control Systems                                                                                     A         -       -       B        -           -
14.1.4 Constant Air Volume (CAV)                                                                                           A         -       -       B        -           -
14.1.5 Variable Air Volume (VAV)                                                                                           A         -       -       B        -           -
14.1.6 Direct Digital Control (DDC)                                                                                        A         -       -       B        -           -


                                                             41                                                            Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT                         Training/Information Provided (See Note)

 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A         B       C        A         B        C         D        E             A                B                C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                Diamond                     Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                          5 Level 7 Level   Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course
                                                 Tasks                                                                              D/L    Course CDC       Course     D/L
14.2 Components                                                                                                            A          -       -       B        -           -
14.3 Principles of operation                                                                                               A          -       -       B        -           -
14.4 Perform recurring maintenance                                                                                          a         -       -       b        -           -
14.5 Repair Components                                                                                                      -         -       -       -        -           -
14.5.1 Troubleshoot                                                                                                        1a         -       -       b        -           -
14.5.2 Correct Malfunctions                                                                                                1a         -       -       b        -           -
14.6 Calibrate and adjust                                                                                                  1a         -       -       b        -           -
14.7 System control strategies                                                                                             A          -       -       B        -           -
14.8 Subsystem control strategies                                                                                          A          -       -       B        -           -
14.9 Perform system changes                                                                                                 -         -       -       -        -           -
14.10 Energy monitoring & control                                                                                           -         -       -       A        -           -
   systems (EMCS operating principles
   and components)
15 FUELS & FUEL SYSTEMS                                                                                                     -         -       -       -        -           -
 TR: AFI 32-1068; ASHRAE
 Handbook: Fundamentals
15.1 Characteristics of fuels (oil, gas)                                                                                   A          -       -       B        -           -
15.2 Types and principles of fuel systems                                                                                  A          -       -       B        -           -
15.3 Environmental concerns                                                                                                A          -       -       B        -           -
15.4 Inspect systems for leaks                                                                                             2b         -       -       b        -           -
16 BURNERS                                                                                                                  -         -       -       -        -           -
 TR: ASHRAE Handbook: HVAC
 Systems and Equipment
16.1 Construction features and operation                                                                                   A          -       -       B        -           -
   of burners (oil and gas)
16.2 Properties of combustion                                                                                              A          -       -       B        -           -
16.3 Operation of analyzers                                                                                                A          -       -       A        -           -
16.4 Perform pre-operational inspections                                                                                   2b         -       -       b        -           -
16.5 Perform operational test                                                                                              2b         -       -       b        -           -
16.6 Perform combustion analysis                                                                                           1a         -       -       b        -           -
16.7 Compute combustion efficiency                                                                                         1a         -       -       b        -           -
16.8 Adjust fuel/air ratio for proper                       *       *                                                      2b         -       -       b        -           -
   combustion efficiency
16.9 Perform recurring maintenance                                                                                          a         -       -       b        -           -
16.10 Repair components                                                                                                     -         -       -       -        -           -
16.10.1 Troubleshoot                                                                                                       2b         -       -       b        -           -
16.10.2 Correct malfunctions                                                                                               2b         -       -       b        -           -
16.11 Environmental concerns                                                                                               A          -       -       B        -           -
17 WARM AIR AND RADIANT                                                                                                     -         -       -       -        -           -
 HEATING
 TR: ASHRAE Handbook: HVAC
 Systems and Equipment; ASHRAE
 Handbook: Applications
17.1 Types and operation                                                                                                   A          -       -       B        -           -
17.2 Perform Pre-operational Inspection                                                                                    2b         -       -       b        -           -
17.3 Perform operational test                                                                                              2b         -       -       b        -           -
17.4 Perform recurring maintenance                                                                                          a         -       -       b        -           -
17.5 Repair                                                                                                                 -         -       -       -        -           -
17.5.1 Troubleshoot                                                                                                        1a         -       -       b        -           -
17.5.2 Correct malfunctions                                                                                                1a         -       -       b        -           -



                                                             42                                                            Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT                         Training/Information Provided (See Note)

 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A         B       C        A         B        C         D        E             A                B                C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                Diamond                     Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                          5 Level 7 Level   Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course
                                                 Tasks                                                                              D/L    Course CDC       Course     D/L
18 STEAM AND HOT WATER                                                                                                      -         -       -       -        -           -
 SYSTEMS
 TR: AFI 32-1068; ASME Boiler
 Pressure Vessel Code Sections IV, VI,
 and VII; Steam, it's Generation and Use;
 ASHRAE Handbook: Applications;
 ASHRAE Handbook: Systems and
 Equipment; High Pressure Boilers 2nd
 Ed; Modern Hydronic Heating for
 Residential and Light Commercial
 Buildings
18.1 Properties of steam                                                                                                   A          -       -       B        -           -
18.2 Principles of distribution systems                                                                                    B          -       -       B        -           -
   (types and components)
18.3 Principles of boilers (firetubes,                                                                                     B          -       -       B        -           -
   watertubes, and cast iron)
18.4 Construction features of boilers                                                                                      B          -       -       B        -           -
   (waterside, fireside, and external
   fittings)
18.5 Auxiliary equipment (feedwater                                                                                        B          -       -       B        -           -
   system, safety devices, and controls)
18.6 Perform pre-operational inspection                                                                                    2b         -       -       b        -           -
18.7 Perform operational test                                                                                              2b         -       -       b        -           -
18.8 Perform recurring maintenance                                                                                          a         -       -       b        -           -
18.9 Repair boilers and/or auxiliary                                                                                        -         -       -       -        -           -
   equipment
18.9.1 Troubleshoot                                                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
18.9.2 Correct malfunctions                                                                                                2b         -       -       b        -           -
18.10 Prepare boiler for inspection                                                                                         a         -       -       b        -           -
   (Types A, B, C, D)
19 AIR CONDITIONING &                                                                                                       -         -       -       -        -           -
 REFRIGERATION SYSTEMS
 TR: Refrigeration and Air Conditioning
 Technology 4th Ed; Modern
 Refrigeration and Air Conditioning 18th
 Ed; Trane Air Conditioning Manual;
 Copeland Refrigeration Manuals: Parts 1
 thru 5; 40 CFR Part 82
19.1 Refrigerants (types and uses)                                                                                         B          -       -       B        -           -
19.2 Oils (types and uses)                                                                                                 B          -       -       B        -           -
19.3 Process refrigerants for air                                                                                          -          -       -       -        -           -
   conditioning and/or refrigeration
   systems IAW EPA and Air Force
   Standards
19.3.1 Locate refrigerant leaks                             *       *                                                      2b         -       -       b        -           -
19.3.2 Universal Certification                                                                                             B          -       -       -        -           -
19.3.3 Recover and recycle refrigerant                      *       *                                                      2b         -       -       b        -           -
19.3.4 Pump down system                                     *       *                                                      2b         -       -       b        -           -
19.3.5 Pressure check system                                *       *                                                      2b         -       -       b        -           -
19.3.6 Charge system                                        *       *                                                      2b         -       -       b        -           -
19.3.7 Retrofit with alternative refrigerant                                                                                a         -       -       b        -           -



                                                             43                                                            Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT                        Training/Information Provided (See Note)

 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A         B       C        A         B        C         D        E            A                B                C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                Diamond                     Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                          5 Level 7 Level   Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course
                                                 Tasks                                                                              D/L    Course CDC       Course     D/L
19.4 Basic refrigeration cycle                                                                                             B         -       -       B        -           -
19.5 Principles of Operation &                                                                                                       -       -                -           -
   Construction Features
19.5.1 Components                                                                                                                    -       -                -           -
19.5.1.1 Compressors (reciprocating,                                                                                       A         -       -       B        -           -
       centrifugal, rotary, screw, scroll)
19.5.1.2 Evaporators (direct and indirect                                                                                  A         -       -       B        -           -
       expansion)
19.5.1.3 Condensers (air and water                                                                                         A         -       -       B        -           -
       cooled)
19.5.1.4 Cooling towers                                                                                                    A         -       -       B        -           -
19.5.1.5 Metering devices/flow controls                                                                                    A         -       -       B        -           -
       expansion valves, capillary
       tubes/orifices, and pressure
       regulators
19.5.1.6 Accessories                                                                                                       A         -       -       B        -           -
19.5.1.7 Capacity control (compressor,                                                                                     A         -       -       B        -           -
       condenser, and system)
19.5.2 Refrigeration systems                                                                                                         -       -                -           -
19.5.2.1 Commercial                                                                                                        B         -       -       B        -           -
19.5.2.2 Ice machines                                                                                                      B         -       -       B        -           -
19.5.2.3 Cold storage                                                                                                      B         -       -       B        -           -
       (permanent/portable)
19.5.3 Air conditioning systems                                                                                            -         -       -       -        -           -
19.5.3.1 Package units                                                                                                     B         -       -       B        -           -
19.5.3.2 Split systems                                                                                                     B         -       -       B        -           -
19.5.3.3 Heat pumps                                                                                                        B         -       -       B        -           -
19.5.3.4 Industrial systems                                                                                                -         -       -       -        -           -
19.5.3.4.1 Reciprocating chiller                                                                                           B         -       -       B        -           -
19.5.3.4.2 Centrifugal chiller                                                                                             B         -       -       B        -           -
19.5.3.4.3 Screw chiller                                                                                                   B         -       -       B        -           -
19.5.3.4.4 Scroll chiller                                                                                                  B         -       -       B        -           -
19.5.3.5 Equipment cooling                                                                                                 B         -       -       B        -           -
19.5.4 Multiple component system                                                                                           A         -       -       B        -           -
     (compressors and evaporators)
19.6 Calculate and adjust superheat                                 *                                                       a        -       -       b        -           -
19.7 Calculate subcooling                                           *                                                       a        -       -       b        -           -
19.8 Plot pressure enthalpy chart                                   *                                                      1a        -       -       b        -           -
19.9 Use pressure-temperature charts                        *                                                              1a        -       -       b        -           -
19.10 Perform pre-operational inspection                                                                                   2b        -       -       b        -           -
19.11 Perform operational test                                                                                             2b        -       -       b        -           -
19.12 Perform recurring maintenance                                                                                         a        -       -       b        -           -
19.13 Repair                                                                                                                -        -       -       -        -           -
19.13.1 Troubleshoot                                                                                                       2b        -       -       b        -           -
19.13.2 Correct malfunctions                                                                                               2b        -       -       b        -           -
20 AIR COMPRESSING EQUIPMENT                                                                                                -        -       -       -        -           -
 (nonaircraft generation equipment)
 TR: Refrigeration and Air Conditioning,
 4th Ed (ARI)
20.1 Types of systems                                                                                                      A         -       -       B        -           -



                                                             44                                                            Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT                         Training/Information Provided (See Note)

 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A         B       C        A         B        C         D        E             A                B                C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                Diamond                     Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                          5 Level 7 Level   Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course
                                                 Tasks                                                                              D/L    Course CDC       Course     D/L
20.2 Construction features and principles                                                                                  A          -       -       B        -           -
   of air compressors and accessories
   (reciprocating, screw, and oil-less)
20.3 Perform pre-operational inspection                                                                                    1a         -       -       b        -           -
20.4 Perform operational test                                                                                              1a         -       -       b        -           -
20.5 Perform recurring maintenance                                                                                         b          -       -                -           -
20.6 Repair                                                                                                                 -         -       -       -        -           -
20.6.1 Troubleshoot                                                                                                        1a         -       -       b        -           -
20.6.2 Correct malfunctions                                                                                                1a         -       -       b        -           -
21 WATER TESTING & TREATMENT                                                                                                -         -       -       -        -           -
 FOR HEATING AND COOLING
 EQUIPMENT
 TR: AFI 32-1054; BETZ Handbook of
 Industrial Water Conditioning;
 Principles of Industrial Water Treatment
 9th Ed
21.1 Water characteristics                                                                                                 A          -       -       B        -           -
21.2 Purpose and types of tests                                                                                            A          -       -       B        -           -
21.3 Internal treatment methods                                                                                            -          -       -       -        -           -
21.3.1 Determine and adjust water levels                                                                                   -          -       -       -        -           -
21.3.2 Determine and adjust treatment                                                                                      -          -       -       -        -           -
     levels
21.3.3 Determine and adjust conductivity                                                                                   -          -       -       -        -           -
21.4 External treatment methods                                                                                            -          -       -       B        -           -
21.5 Chemical feeding equipment                                                                                            A          -       -       B        -           -
21.6 Environmental concerns                                                                                                A          -       -       B        -           -
22 EXTERNAL CORROSION                                                                                                      -          -       -       -        -           -
 TR: AFIs 32-1054, 32-1068; Principles
 of Industrial Water Treatment 9th Ed
22.1 Causes and types                                                                                                      A          -       -       B        -           -
22.2 Methods of Controlling                                                                                                A          -       -       B        -           -
22.3 Environmental Concerns                                                                                                A          -       -       B        -           -
23 AFSC SPECIFIC CONTINGENCY                                                                                               -          -       -       -        -           -
 RESPONSIBILITIES
 TR: AFIs 10-210, 10-211; AFPAM 10-
 219 V1, V2, V3, V4
23.1 Expedient repair and destruction                                                                                       -         -       -       -        -           -
23.1.1 Facility Repair                                                                                                      -         -       -       -        -           -
 TR: AFPAM 10-219 V3; Home Station
     Training (HST) Category 1 and 2
23.1.1.1 Theory of heating/air                                                                                             A          -       -       B        -           -
       conditioning systems expedient
       repair and cannibalization
       techniques
23.1.1.2 Fabrication methods for                                                                                            a         -       -       b        -           -
       temporary heating/air conditioning
       duct
23.1.1.3 Techniques for temporary                                                                                           a         -       -       b        -           -
       installation of mobile/portable
       heating units
23.1.2 Airfield Damage Repair CONOPS                                                                                        -         -       -       -        -           -



                                                             45                                                            Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT                         Training/Information Provided (See Note)

 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A         B       C        A         B        C         D        E             A                B                C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                Diamond                     Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                          5 Level 7 Level   Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course
                                                 Tasks                                                                              D/L    Course CDC       Course     D/L
23.2 Expedient Beddown Methods and                                                                                          -         -       -       -        -           -
   Base Expeditionary Airfield Resources
   (BEAR) type assets
 TR: AFPAMs 10-219 V2, 10-219 V5;
   AFH 10-222v1
23.2.1 Immersion Heater                                                                                                     -         -       -       -        -           -
23.2.1.1 Principles of operation                                                                                            -         -       -       A        -           -
23.2.1.2 Perform operational tests                                                                                          -         -       -       -        -           -
23.2.1.3 Troubleshooting                                                                                                    -         -       -       -        -           -
23.2.1.4 Repairs                                                                                                            -         -       -       -        -           -
23.2.2 Tent Heaters Preway                                                                                                  -         -       -       -        -           -
 TR: AFPAM 10-219 V5
23.2.2.1 Principles of operation                                                                                           B          -       -       B        -           -
23.2.2.2 Set-up                                                                                                             b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.2.3 Perform pre-operational check            ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.2.4 Perform operational test                 ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.2.5 Service/periodic maintenance             ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.2.6 Troubleshooting                          ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.2.7 Repairs                                                                                                            b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.3 150 Cubic Foot Refrigeration Unit                                                                                    -         -       -       -        -           -
 TR: TO 40R7-5-7-4; TMs 5-4110-240-
     13&P, 9-4110-254-14
23.2.3.1 Setup                                                                                                              b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.3.2 Perform pre-operational check            ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.3.3 Perform operational test                 ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.3.4 Service/periodic maintenance             ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.3.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                       -         -       -       -        -           -
23.2.3.5.1 Using electrical schematic             ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.3.5.2 Mechanical malfunctions                ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.3.5.3 Repairs                                                                                                          b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.4 Advanced Design Refrigeration                                                                                        -         -       -       -        -           -
     Unit (ADR 300)
 TR: TO 40R7-6-1
23.2.4.1 Setup                                                                                                              b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.4.2 Perform pre-operational check            ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.4.3 Perform operational test                 ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.4.4 Service/periodic maintenance             ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.4.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                       -         -       -       -        -           -
23.2.4.5.1 Using electrical schematic             ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.4.5.2 Mechanical malfunctions                ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.4.5.3 Repairs                                                                                                          b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.5 1200 Cubic Foot Refrigeration                                                                                        -         -       -       -        -           -
     Unit
 TR: TMs 9-4110-246-14, 9-4110-254-
     14; TO 40R7-5-7-4
23.2.5.1 Setup                                                                                                              a         -       -       -        -           -
23.2.5.2 Perform pre-operational check                                                                                      -         -       -       -        -           -
23.2.5.3 Perform operational test                                                                                           -         -       -       -        -           -
23.2.5.4 Service/periodic maintenance                                                                                       -         -       -       -        -           -
23.2.5.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                       -         -       -       -        -           -



                                                             46                                                            Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT                         Training/Information Provided (See Note)

 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A         B       C        A         B        C         D        E             A                B                C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                Diamond                     Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                          5 Level 7 Level   Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course
                                                 Tasks                                                                              D/L    Course CDC       Course     D/L
23.2.5.5.1 Using electrical schematic                                                                                       -         -       -       -        -           -
23.2.5.5.2 Mechanical malfunctions                                                                                          -         -       -       -        -           -
23.2.5.5.3 Repairs                                                                                                          -         -       -       -        -           -
23.2.6 Bare Base Air Conditioner (A/E                                                                                       -         -       -       -        -           -
     32C-39)
 TR: TO 35E9-163-1;
TM 9-4120-398-14
23.2.6.1 Setup                                                                                                              b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.6.2 Perform pre-operational check            ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.6.3 Perform operational test                 ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.6.4 Service/periodic maintenance             ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.6.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                                 -       -                -           -
23.2.6.5.1 Using electrical schematic             ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.6.5.2 Mechanical malfunctions                ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.6.5.3 Repairs                                                                                                          b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.7 Field Deployable Environmental                                                                                       -         -       -       -        -           -
     Control Unit (FDECU)
 TR: TO 35E9-314-1
23.2.7.1 Setup                                                                                                              b         -       -       -        -           -
23.2.7.2 Perform pre-operational check            ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.7.3 Perform operational test                 ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.7.4 Service/periodic maintenance             ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.7.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                       -         -       -       -        -           -
23.2.7.5.1 Using electrical schematic             ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.7.5.2 Mechanical malfunctions                ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.7.5.3 Repairs                                                                                                          b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.8 Bare Base M149 Trailer Mounted                                                                                       -         -       -       -        -           -
     Water Chiller
 TR: TM 10-4130-239-14
23.2.8.1 Setup                                                                                                              -         -       -       -        -           -
23.2.8.2 Operate                                                                                                            -         -       -       -        -           -
23.2.8.3 Troubleshooting                                                                                                    -         -       -       -        -           -
23.2.8.4 Repairs                                                                                                            -         -       -       -        -           -
23.2.9 TEMPER tent erection                                                                                                 -         -       -       -        -           -
 TR: TOs 35E4-94-1, 35E4-132-1, 35E5-
     6-1, 35E5-6-4; AFPAM 10-219
     V1&V5; AFH 10-222 V1
23.2.9.1 Assembly                                                                                                           a         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.9.2 Disassembly                                                                                                        a         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.10 Field Water Heater (M-80)                                                                                           -         -       -       -        -           -
 TR: TM 10-4520-259-1 3&P
23.2.10.1 Principles of operation                                                                                          B          -       -       B        -           -
23.2.10.2 Setup                                                                                                            2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.10.3 Perform pre-operational check           ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.10.4 Perform operational test                ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.10.5 Service/periodic maintenance            ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.10.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                      -         -       -       -        -           -
23.2.10.6.1 Using electrical schematic            ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.10.6.2 Mechanical malfunctions               ♦                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -
23.2.10.6.3 Repairs                                                                                                        2b         -       -       b        -           -



                                                             47                                                            Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT                         Training/Information Provided (See Note)

   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A         B       C        A         B        C         D        E             A                B                C
                                                                                                                             3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                  Diamond                     Tng       Tng    Trainee    Trainer Certifier  (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                            5 Level 7 Level   Start   Complete Initials   Initials Initials Course
                                                   Tasks                                                                              D/L    Course CDC       Course     D/L
  23.2.11 Small Shelter System (SSS)                                                                                          -         -       -       -        -           -
   TR: TO 35E5-6-11SS-1
  23.2.11.1 Environmental Control Unit                                                                                        -         -       -       -        -           -
         (ECU) HAC-36-V4B
  23.2.11.2 Assembly                                                                                                          a         -       -       b        -           -
  23.2.11.3 Disassembly                                                                                                       a         -       -       b        -           -
  23.2.12 Maintain Survivable Collective                                                                                      -         -       -       -        -           -
       Protective System (SCPS) HVAC
       Systems
   TR: TO 35E9-163-11
  23.2.13 Special purpose                                                                                                     -         -       -       -        -           -
       vehicles/equipment
  23.2.13.1 High Mobility Multipurpose                                                                                        -         -       -       -        -           -
         Wheeled Vehicle (HMMWV)
  23.2.13.2 Dump truck                                                                                                        -         -       -       -        -           -
  23.2.13.3 Front-end loader w/forklift                                                                                       -         -       -       -        -           -
         attachment
  23.2.13.4 Tactical Environment Control                                                                                      -         -       -       -        -           -
         Units
   TR: TOs 35E9-263-1, 35E9-289-4,
         35E9-242-4, 35E9-136-21, 35E9-
         229-1, 35E9-136-31, 35E9-136-34
  23.2.13.5 Chemically Hardened Air                                                                                           -         -       -       -        -           -
         Management Plant (CHAMP)
  23.2.14 Generators                                                                                                          -         -       -       -        -           -
  23.2.14.1 Setup                                                                                                             -         -       -       -        -           -
  23.2.14.2 Operate                                                                                                           -         -       -       -        -           -
  23.2.14.3 Perform Operator Maintenance                                                                                      -         -       -       -        -           -

Note: BLK #4: Columns (1) & (2) can be relabeled to meet CF Requirements; i.e., 2 phase 3 skill level course, 5 lvl QTPs.




                                                               48                                                            Attachment 2
                                AFQTP Documentation Record
                                    For AFSC 3E1X1
- Download applicable AFQTPs at
https://wwwmil.afcesa.af.mil/Directorate/CEO/Training/QTPs/ceof_3e1x1.htm
https://afcesa.csd.disa.mil/kc/main/kc_frame.asp?strURL=../adlsslim/profile/student_profile_page.aspx
Trainers/Certifiers enter their name and initials in the identification block at beginning of the STS
- Upon administering AFQTPs, enter start date in column 4 of this record
- Upon completion of each unit, document columns 5, 6, and 7
- Upon completion of applicable CerTests, trainer will place the completion date in column 8Where is 8
- Transcribe by entering current date in columns 5 and 8?, Trainees & Trainers Initials in columns 6 & 7
   1                           2                                                 3              4               5          6           7
 TASK           TASKS, KNOWLEDGE, AND TECHNICAL




                                                                                              START DATE
                                                                  ♦SEE NOTE 1
                                                                                * * 7 LEVEL




                                                                                                             COMPLETE




                                                                                                                                    TRAINER’S
NUMBER                    REFERENCES




                                                                                                                        TRAINEE'S
                                                                                 * 5 LEVEL




                                                                                                                         INITIALS



                                                                                                                                     INITIALS
                                                                                                               DATE
    9.      PIPING/TUBING
            Ref : AFQTP Module 12 – PIPING/TUBING

  9.3.1.    Fabricate piping and tubing systems
                                                                                 *

            Install piping and tubing systems
  9.3.2.                                                                         *

   10.      WELDING & CUTTING Ref:
            AFQTP Module 13 – WELDING & CUTTING

 10.2.2.    Braze and solder
                                                                                 *

   13.      ELECTRICAL
            Ref: AFQTP Module 16 – ELECTRICAL; HVAC Electrical Troubleshooting and Repair
            Version 1.0 Mar 00 (CD-ROM)

 13.8.5.    Electrically connect (single-phase and three phase)
                                                                                 *

 13.8.6.    Reverse rotation of electric motors
                                                                                 *

 13.8.7.    Measure motor current draw
                                                                                 *

   16.      BURNERS
            Ref: AFQTP Module 19 – BURNERS

  16.8.     Adjust fuel/air ratio for proper combustion
            efficiency                                                           *


                                                  49                                                       Attachment 3
   1                                  2                                          3             4                5          6           7
 TASK         TASKS, KNOWLEDGE, AND TECHNICAL
NUMBER                  REFERENCES




                                                                                             START DATE
                                                                 ♦SEE NOTE 1
                                                                               * * 7 LEVEL




                                                                                                             COMPLETE




                                                                                                                                    TRAINER’S
                                                                                                                        TRAINEE'S
                                                                                * 5 LEVEL




                                                                                                                         INITIALS


                                                                                                                                     INITIALS
                                                                                                               DATE
  19.     AIR CONDITIONING & REFRIGERATION SYSTEMS
          Ref: AFQTP Module 21 – AIR CONDITIONING & REFRIGERATION SYSTEMS

19.3.1.   Locate refrigerants leaks
                                                                                 *

19.3.3.   Recover and recycle refrigerants from refrigeration
          and air conditioning systems                                           *

19.3.4.   Pump down refrigeration systems
                                                                                 *

19.3.5.   Pressure check refrigeration systems
                                                                                 *

 19.3.6   Charge HVAC/R systems with refrigerant
                                                                                 *

 19.8.    Plot pressure enthalpy chart for refrigeration cycle
                                                                                **

 19.9.    Use pressure temperature charts
                                                                                 *

 19.6.    Calculate and adjust superheat
                                                                                **

 19.7.    Calculate subcooling
                                                                                **




                                             50                                                           Attachment 3
NOTE 1: ♦ Diamond tasks are extremely important to the career field. Diamond tasks are the same as core
tasks with one exception--equipment shortfalls at most locations have created problems with the actual
hands-on certification of these tasks. In instances where required equipment is not available for instruction,
completion of the task’s AFQTP and passing the corresponding CerTest/Virtual Learning Center (VLC) test
is all that is required for upgrade and qualification training. Hands-on certification should be accomplished at
the first opportunity when equipment is available. In locations where the equipment is available for hands-on
certification, CerTest/VLC test completion is still a mandatory requirement.
       1                             2                           3       4         5        6        7         8
  TASK              TASKS, KNOWLEDGE, AND




                                                                                       START DATE
                                                           ♦SEE NOTE 1
 NUMBER             TECHNICAL REFERENCES




                                                                                                                                         COMP DATE
                                                                                                    COMPLETE




                                                                                                                             TRAINER’S
                                                                         * * 7 LEVEL




                                                                                                                 TRAINEE'S
                                                                          * 5 LEVEL




                                                                                                                  INITIALS



                                                                                                                              INITIALS




                                                                                                                                           CerTest
                                                                                                      DATE
    23.       AFSC SPECIFIC CONTINGENCY RESPONSIBILITIES
              Ref: AFQTP Module – AFSC SPECIFIC CONTINGENCY RESPONSIBILITIES; Preway
              Space Heater Version 1.0 Aug 99 (CD-ROM); 150 CU Foot Refrigerator 3E1X1-27.2.2.2
              Version 1.0 (CD-ROM); Air Conditioner Bare Base 3E1X1-27.3.2.2.3C) Version 1.0 (CD ROM);
              M-80 Field Water Heater 3E1X1-27.3.2C Version 1.0 (CD-ROM)
              Tent Heaters, Preway     (See VLC site)
 23.2.2.3.    Perform pre-operational check

 23.2.2.4.    Perform operational test
                                                                          ♦
 23.2.2.5.    Service/periodic maintenance

 23.2.2.6.    Troubleshoot
              150 Cubic Foot Refrigeration Unit

 23.2.3.2.    Perform pre-operational check
                                       CerTest # 8065
 23.2.3.3.    Perform operational test
                                       CerTest # 8066
 23.2.3.4.    Service/periodic maintenance                                ♦
                                       CerTest # 8067
23.2.3.5.1.   Using Electrical schematic
     .                                 CerTest # 8068
23.2.3.5.2.   Mechanical malfunctions
                                       CerTest # 8069
              Advanced Design Refrigeration Unit-
              (ADR 300)             (See VLC site)
 23.2.4.2.    Perform pre-operational check

 23.2.4.3.    Perform operational test
                                                                          ♦
 23.2.4.4.    Service/periodic maintenance

23.2.4.5.1.   Using Electrical schematic

23.2.4.5.2.   Mechanical malfunctions



                                                  51                                                           Attachment 3
   1                       2                                3           4             5          6           7           8
 TASK            TASKS, KNOWLEDGE, AND




                                                                      START DATE
                                                       ♦SEE NOTE 1
                                                        * * 7 LEVEL
NUMBER           TECHNICAL REFERENCES




                                                                                   COMPLETE




                                                                                                                      COMP DATE
                                                                                                          TRAINER’S
                                                                                              TRAINEE'S
                                                         * 5 LEVEL




                                                                                               INITIALS

                                                                                                           INITIALS



                                                                                                                        CerTest
                                                                                     DATE
               Bare Base Air Conditioner
                                    CerTest # 8084
 23.2.6.2.     Perform pre-operational check

 23.2.6.3.     Perform operational tests
                                                            ♦
 23.2.6.4.     Service/periodic maintenance

23.2.6.5.1.    Using Electrical schematic

23.2.6.5.2     Mechanical malfunctions
               Field Deployable Environmental
 23.2.7.2.     Control Unit (FDECU)
                                                            ♦
               Perform pre-operational check

               Field Deployable Environmental
 23.2.7.3.     Control Unit (FDECU)
                                                            ♦
               Perform operational test
                                      CerTest # 8209
               Field Deployable Environmental
 23.2.7.4.     Control Unit (FDECU)
                                                            ♦
               Service/periodic maintenance
                                      CerTest # 8210
               Field Deployable Environmental
23.2.7.5.1.    Control Unit (FDECU); Troubleshoot
                                                            ♦
               Using electrical schematic
                                      CerTest # 8211
               Field Deployable Environmental
23.2.7.5.2.    Control Unit (FDECU): Troubleshoot
                                                            ♦
               Mechanical malfunctions
                                      CerTest # 8212
               Field Water Heaters (M-80)
                                      (See VLC site)
23.2.10.3.     Perform pre-operational check

23.2.10.4.     Perform operational tests
                                                            ♦
23.2.10.5.     Service/periodic maintenance

23.2.10.6.1.   Using electrical schematic

23.2.10.6.2.   Mechanical Malfunctions




                                              52                                       Attachment 3
                     SECTION B - COURSE OBJECTIVE LIST (COL)
                       (This section used when developing lesson plans)

4. Measurement. Measurement of each objective is indicated as follows:

       4.1. Written Test (W) - used to sample each knowledge objective and the knowledge
       components of performance objectives.

       4.2. Performance Test (P) - used under specified conditions in a formal testing mode to
       measure student accomplishment of performance objectives after the teaching-learning
       activity has been completed.

       4.3. Progress Checks (PC) - administered by the instructor during classroom or
       laboratory instruction time to assess the student’s accomplishment of knowledge or
       performance objectives.

5. Standard. The standard is 70% on written examinations. Standards for performance
measurement are indicated in the objectives and delineated on the individual progress checklist.
Instructor assistance may be provided as stated during the progress check, and students may be
required to repeat all or parts of the behavior until satisfactory performance is attained.

6. Proficiency Level. Most task performance is taught to the “2b” proficiency level which
means the student can do most parts of the task, but does need assistance on the hardest parts of
the task (partially proficient). The student can also determine step-by-step procedures for doing
the task.

7. Course Objective List. These objectives are listed in the sequence taught by Block of
Instruction.

7.1. Initial Skills Course. A detailed listing of the initial skills course objectives may be
obtained by written request to 366 TRS/DO, 727 Missile Road, Sheppard AFB TX 76311- 2254.

7.2. 7-Skill Level Course. A detailed listing of the HVAC/R Craftsman course objectives may
be obtained by written request to 366 TRS/DO, 727 Missile Road, Sheppard AFB TX 76311-
2254.




                                               53
                          SECTION C - SUPPORT MATERIALS

8. CerTest.

      8.1. CerTest is a program that uses computer-based evaluation to ensure skilled
      craftsmen are available to meet the Air Force's changing needs. It enhances upgrade and
      qualification training by testing and evaluating an individual's knowledge of the
      principles and procedures in each specialty.

              8.1.1. The program contains tests used evaluate task knowledge received through
              different media such as paper products (text), videotapes, and computer–based
              programs.

              8.1.2. The CerTest program contains mandatory tests, required for upgrade. All
              diamond (♦) coded tasks on the STS have a corresponding mandatory test.

              8.1.3. CerTest is also a powerful training management tool. It can be used to find
              the strengths and weaknesses in an individual's training and experience. CerTest
              automatically records and updates all test results. The training manager can copy
              records to a disk so that an individual can bring current, accurate training
              information to a new unit; thereby helping the gaining supervisor evaluate the
              trainee's knowledge and experience.

      8.2. CerTest also enables unit personnel to develop site-specific tests. These custom-
      made tests standardize testing on tasks unique to a specific duty station and/or
      assignment. The program contains a graphics library that may be used along with a
      menu-driven test editor to develop these site-specific tests.

      8.3. CerTest also contains optional CDC pre-evaluation tools. Volume review exercises
      are available for progress checks after each volume is completed. After all volumes are
      completed in a set, the trainee may take the course review exercise before taking the final
      End of Course exam at the base training office. Commanders are encouraged to integrate
      these tools in their unit’s OJT program.

      8.4. CerTest has been adopted as the Air Force platform for future electronic CDC
      testing. The Air Force Institute for Distributive Learning (AFIADL) began using
      CerTest on 1 June 2000. Currently, all CE AFSs are allowed to use AFIADL’s CerTest
      on installations where Base Test Control Facilities (TCFs) are equipped. See your UETM
      for further information.

      8.5. The mandatory CerTests for each AFSC are identified, by number, with it’s
      corresponding AFQTP on the 3E1X1 AFQTP Documentation Record.

      8.6. For a complete list of up-to-date AFQTPs applicable to the 3E1X1 AFSC see our
      web page at:
      https://wwwmil.afcesa.af.mil/Directorate/CEO/Training/QTPs/ceof_3e1x1.htm


                                              54
                        SECTION D - TRAINING COURSE INDEX

9. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the specialty.
Refer to the Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA) web site,
https://etca.randolph.af.mil/ for complete information on Air Force courses.

10. Air Force In-Residence/Mobile Training Team (MTT) Courses.
Course Title, Developer
J3AZR3E151 01AA HVAC/R Control Systems
J3AZR3E151 04DA HVAC/R Direct Expansion Systems
J3AZR3E151 05IA HVAC/R Indirect Expansion Systems

11. Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning (AFIADL) Courses.
Course Number, Title
Graduates from J8ABR3E131 00AA will use:
CDC 3E151D HVAC/R Journeyman
CDC 3E151E HVAC/R Journeyman
CDC 3E151F HVAC/R Journeyman
Graduates from J8ABR3E131 00AB will use:
CDC 3E151A HVAC/R Journeyman
CDC 3E151B HVAC/R Journeyman
CDC 3E151C HVAC/R Journeyman

12. Exportable Courses/Information.
Title
Common Core CBT, 3-level
Common Core CBT, 7-level

13. Courses Under Development/Revision
Course Number, Title
J3AZR3E151 01AB HVAC/R Control Systems
(Will replace J3AZR3E151 01AA)
J3AZR3E151 02AA Advanced Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Systems
(Will replace and combine J3AZR3E151 04DA and J3AZR3E151 05IA)




                                               55
                SECTION E – MAJCOM-UNIQUE REQUIREMENTS

14. “There are currently no MAJCOM unique requirements. This area is reserved.”




                                         56
                         SECTION F - HOME STATION TRAINING

15. Purpose. The purpose of this section is to identify the tasks, training references, and training
sources available in support of contingency and/or wartime training. Prime BEEF forces will
train to meet the full range of tasks expected in the contingency environment. Training ranges
from knowledge-type training conducted in a classroom (CAT 1), to task-oriented hands-on
(CAT II) training conducted in the field. These training requirements, frequencies, and sources
are listed in AFI 10-210, Prime Base Emergency Engineer Force (BEEF) Program.

    15.1. Home Station Training (HST). HST is training that is conducted at the individual’s
    home station for contingency operations. The Civil Engineer Commander ensures training
    is provided and documented and arranges for subject matter experts to conduct training as
    required. Home Station training requirements fall into two categories, CAT I and CAT II.

           15.1.1. Category I (CAT-I) Training. Personnel assigned to base level Civil
           Engineer units will receive initial and refresher training in all CAT I (knowledge-
           based) topics as shown in AFI 10-210, Chapter 4, Attachment 2. Units will use
           Readiness Training Packages (RTPs), Qualification Training Packages (QTPs), other
           multimedia training packages, videos, and AF CE standardized lesson plans to
           present the material. MAJCOMs may develop and require other training materials to
           accomplish knowledge-based training.

                   15.1.1.1. Prime BEEF Orientation/General Contingency. Upon
                   assignment to the unit, all military and emergency-essential civilian
                   employees will be trained on the unit’s Prime BEEF and Emergency
                   Management missions. The training will emphasize the individual’s role and
                   how he or she fits into the program. It will also include an overview of Civil
                   Engineer Doctrine and explain the organization, training, equipment,
                   operating concepts, and contingency missions pertaining to the unit.

                   15.1.1.2. General Contingency Responsibilities CD-ROM (GCRCD).
                   Personnel may receive annual credit for the applicable CAT I training through
                   completion of one of two available GCRCDs (one for 3-level civil engineers;
                   the second for all other personnel). The 3-level product is a detailed version
                   specifically designed for use as initial CAT I training. Use of this product has
                   become critical in light of recent reductions in technical Prime BEEF training
                   and education. All Airmen should complete this course within 90 days upon
                   arrival at their first duty station (6 months for ARC members). A second
                   GCRCD product is available as an optional source for attaining recurring
                   CAT I training for those task identified in AFI 10-210, Attachment 2.
                   Duplication of both CD’s is strongly encouraged. AFCESA is in the process
                   of transferring all courses on CD-Rom to the new AFCESA Virtual Learning
                   Center.
                   https://afcesa.csd.disa.mil/kc/login/login.asp?kc_ident=kc0005




                                                57
       15.1.1.3. Certification Test (CerTest). Personnel who pass a CerTest
       computer-based exam in a CAT I contingency subject area can receive credit
       for that training requirement. Document training as outlined in AFI 10-210.

15.1.2. Category II (CAT-II) Training. CAT II training is primarily hands-on
training as outlined in AFI 10-210, Chapter 4, Attachment 3. Units must make every
effort to incorporate realism into their respective CAT II training programs. Field
gear (to include primary weapons) will be used during training requirements such as,
personal/work party security, convoy operations, defensive fighting positions, etc.

       15.1.2.1. Combat Skills Training (CST). CST must be institutionalized as
       an integral part of any CAT II HST program. Lessons learned from
       operations such as IRAQI FREEDOM have taught us the importance of
       maintaining a higher level of combat readiness. Although the inclusion of
       combat skills-focused training into HST does not fully prepare CE personnel
       to work in a high threat combat environment, the steps taken to enhance
       CAT II training will help elevate units to a readiness level capable of
       supporting safe and effective operations in low to medium risk combat
       environments.

       15.1.2.2. Mission Essential Equipment Training (MEETS). Wartime or
       contingency environments often involve the use of specialized and unique
       mission-essential equipment the Civil Engineers do not use in their day-to-
       day operations. Due to the cost and complexity, mission essential
       contingency equipment and trainer expertise are not commonly found at
       CONUS installations. Personnel must be hands-on certified and the
       certification documented in their CFEPT. AFI 10-210, Tables 4.1- 4.6
       identifies minimum personnel to be trained, positions by specialty,
       frequencies and locations of training sites. Inadequate training on these key
       equipment items can negatively impact Air Force contingency operations.

15.1.3. Category III (CAT III) Training. Team Training Venues

       15.1.3.1. Silver Flag Exercise Sites (CAT III). Silver Flag Exercise Sites
       are located at Tyndall AFB, FL; Ramstein AB, Germany; and Kadena AB,
       Japan and conduct CAT III training with their major focus on students being
       able to perform critical contingency task in a team environment. The
       training focuses on bare base beddown and sustainment operations using
       hands-on training with BEAR equipment in a realistic beddown
       environment. Where possible, combat skills training has been added to the
       curriculum to ensure realism and help fortify combat skills mentality
       amongst teams. All CE personnel who fill Unit Type Code (UTC) positions
       will receive team training at Silver Flag Exercise Sites with the exception of
       members on headquarters staff augmentation UTCs, pavement evaluation
       UTCs, and generator repair and maintenance UTCs.



                                   58
15.2. Training References.

      15.2.1. AFI 10-210, Prime Base Engineer Emergency Force (BEEF) Program.
      Chapter four of AFI 10-210 identifies the Prime BEEF recurring training
      requirements. You can review this document by going to the Air Force publications
      web site. Attachment 2 is a list of HST CAT-I training requirements and Attachment
      3 lists CAT-II training requirements.

      15.2.2. Air Force Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA).
      Superseded AFCAT 36-2223. It is located at the following URL:
      https://etca.randolph.af.mil lists additional training/educational opportunities
      available for civil engineer personnel. This catalog contains information on formal
      education and training courses. The catalog is updated quarterly.

      15.2.3. Readiness Training Package (RTP). RTPs are lesson plans for HST
      lessons. The RTPs are intended for those personnel who teach any area of HST. The
      index and RTPs are located on the AFCESA/CEX web page. The URL for this
      information is
      https://wwwmil.afcesa.af.mil/Directorate/CEX/CEXX/ContingencyTrng/default.html

      15.2.4. AFCESA/CEX. Maintains a comprehensive listing of audiovisual products
      that support the contingency training program. To view this listing as well as gain
      information on how to order specific audiovisual products, please consult the AFCESA
      Contingency Support page, see URL above.




                                          59
