DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                    CFETP 3D1X6
Headquarters US Air Force                                                        Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                     23 August 2011



                                 AFSC 3D1X6

                          AIRFIELD SYSTEMS




                 CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
                   AND TRAINING PLAN
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                                           AIRFIELD SYSTEMS
                                              AFSC 3D1X6
                               CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                                               TABLE OF CONTENTS


PART I

Preface .......................................................................................................................................................... 1

Abbreviations/Terms Explained .................................................................................................................... 2

Section A - General Information .................................................................................................................... 9
Purpose of the CFETP
Use of the CFETP
Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B - Career Field Progression and Information ............................................................................... 11
Specialty Description
       Airfield Systems Apprentice/Journeyman/Craftsman (3D136/3D156/3D176)
       Cyber Systems Superintendent /Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM) (3D190/3D100)
Skill/Career Progression
       Apprentice (3-Level) Training
       Journeyman (5-Level) Training
       Craftsman (7-Level) Training
       Superintendent (9-Level) Training
       Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM) Training
       MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM)
       Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM)
Training Decisions
Community College of the Air Force Academic Programs
Career Field Path
       Education and Training Path Table

Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements............................................................................................ 21
Purpose
Specialty Qualification Requirements
      Apprentice (3-Level) Training
      Journeyman (5-Level) Training
      Craftsman (7-Level) Training
      Superintendent (9-Level) Training

Section D - Resource Constraints ............................................................................................................... 25
Purpose
Apprentice (3-Level) Training
Journeyman (5-Level) Training
Craftsman (7-Level) Training

Section E - Transition Training Guide ......................................................................................................... 25

OPR: 338th TRS/TRR
Approved By: SAF/A60D
Supersedes: CFETP3D1X6, dated 1 August 2009
Pages: 83



                                                                                 i
Part II

Section A - Specialty Training Standard ..................................................................................................... 26

Section B - Course Objective List ............................................................................................................... 79

Section C - Support Materials ..................................................................................................................... 79
Air Force Job Qualification Standards and Air Force Qualification Training Packages

Section D - Training Course Index .............................................................................................................. 79
Purpose
Air Force In-Residence Courses
Air University Courses
Exportable Courses

Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements .............................................................................................. 80




                                                                          ii
                                  AIRFIELD SYSTEMS
                                     AFSC 3D1X6
                      CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

PART I

Preface
1. The changing Command, Control, Communications, Computer, and Intelligence (C4I) and Air and
Space Expeditionary Forces (AEF) environments require vision, preparation, and attention to ensure
people have the right skills and tools to deliver the C4I capabilities and the support required by the war
fighter in meeting the Air Force mission of today and the vision of the future. Declining resources,
expanding diversity of mission, and ever-changing technologies in the Air Force are impacting the
availability of our most valuable resource--people. These factors will continue to exist in the future, making
it essential for the work force to be effectively and efficiently trained to perform duties within each skill level
of an Air Force Specialty (AFS). To meet the challenges of tomorrow, the Air Force must place a greater
emphasis on career field training. This Airfield Systems Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP)
is a comprehensive core training document that identifies life-cycle training/education requirements,
support resources, and minimum core task requirements for the 3D1X6 specialty. The plan is a "training
road map" for the career field. It provides personnel a clear career path to success and makes career field
training identifiable, measurable, and budget defensible.

2. This CFETP is a comprehensive education and training document that identifies life cycle education and
training requirements, training support resources, and minimum core task requirements for this specialty.
The CFETP documents the career field training program and consists of two parts. Management uses both
parts in conjunction with the Training Business Area (TBA) to plan, manage, and control training within the
career field. NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty position
qualification training.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A explains
how everyone will use the plan; Section B identifies career field progression information, duties and
responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path; Section C associates each level with specialty
qualifications (knowledge, education, experience, training, and other); and Section D indicates resource
constraints. Some examples are funds, manpower, equipment, facilities; Section E identifies transition
training guide requirements for SSgt through MSgt.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A: identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and includes
duties, tasks, TRs to support training, AETC conducted training, wartime course and core tasks, and
correspondence course requirements. Section B: contains the Course Objectives List (COL) and training
standards supervisors will use to determine if airmen satisfied training requirements. Section C: identifies
available support materials. An example is a Qualification Training Package, which may be developed to
support proficiency training; Section D identifies a training course index supervisors can use to determine
resources available to support training. Included here are both mandatory and optional courses; Section E
identifies MAJCOM unique training requirements supervisors can use to determine additional training
required for the associated qualification needs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II to
identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.

3. Use of the guidance provided in this CFETP provides the foundation for effective and efficient training
for individuals in this career field at the appropriate points in their careers. This plan enables the Air Force
to train today's work force for tomorrow's jobs.




                                                        1
Abbreviations/Terms Explained

This section provides a common understanding of the terms that apply to the Airfield Systems Career Field
and Education Training Plan.
Advanced Training (AT). A formal course of training that leads to a technical or supervisory level of an
AFS. Training is for selected airmen at the advanced level of an AFS.
Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF). The AEF is the Air Force’s methodology for organizing,
training, equipping, and sustaining rapidly responsive air and space forces to meet defense strategy
requirements. Through the AEF, consisting of enabler and tempo banded capabilities the Air Force
supports defense strategy requirements using a combination of both permanently assigned and rotational
(allocated) forces.
Air and Space Expeditionary Task Force (AETF). The AETF is the Air Force’s primary warfighting
organization and the means by which we present forces to a Joint Forces Commander (JFC). When
established, AETFs will form up under the designated Air Force component headquarters.
Air Education Training Command (AETC). Responsible for the recruiting, training, and education of Air
Force personnel. AETC also provides pre-commissioning, professional military, and continuing education.
Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). Representative appointed by the respective HQ USAF Deputy
Chief of Staff or Under Secretariat to ensure that assigned Air Force specialties are trained and utilized to
support Air Force mission requirements.
Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD). The official directory for all military enlisted
classification descriptions, codes, and identifiers. Establishes the occupational structure of the Air Force
enlisted force. The occupational structure is flexible to permit enlisted personnel to specialize and develop
their skills and abilities while allowing the Air Force to meet changing mission requirements. Individual
enlisted personnel have a joint responsibility with commanders and supervisors at all levels to fully develop
their abilities consistent with Air Force needs and within the established patterns of specialization.
Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a particular job
type or duty position. Supervisors use the AFJQS to document task qualification. The tasks on AFJQSs
are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.
Air Force Qualification Training Package (AFQTP). An instructional course designed for use at the unit
to qualify or aid qualification in a duty position, program, or on a piece of equipment. It may be printed,
computer-based, or other audiovisual media.
Air Force Specialty (AFS). A group of positions, with the same title and code, that requires common
qualifications.
Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (AFTTP). Air Force technical training publication.
Air University Associate-to-Baccalaureate Cooperative (AU ABC). Allows Airmen to turn a Community
College of the Air Force Associates Degree into a Bachelors Degree from an accredited university. The
ABC program has established a partnership with various civilian higher-education institutions to offer four-
year degree opportunities via distance learning. The participating schools will accept all of the credits
earned by Airmen who have attained a CCAF degree and apply them to a Bachelors degree related to their
Air Force specialty.
Air University/A4L. The result of a reorganization of the Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed
Learning (AFIADL); provides access to the Extension Course Institute.
Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive core training
document that identifies: life-cycle education and training requirements; training support resources and
minimum core task requirements for a specialty. The CFETP aims to give personnel a clear path and instill
a sense of industry in career field training. CFETPs are officially posted at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/
Certification. A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required standards.



                                                       2
Certifying Official. A person assigned by the commander to determine an individual’s ability to perform a
task to required standards.
Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield Explosive (CBRNE) Task Qualification
Training (TQT). CBRNE TQT ensures personnel maintain proficiency in performing mission-critical tasks
in a CBRNE environment. See AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning
and Operations, and AFMAN 10-2602, Nuclear, Biological, Chemical, and Conventional (NBCC) Defense
Operations and Standards for additional information/requirements.
Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM) Code. CEM codes identify all chief master sergeant positions in the
Enlisted Classification Structure. They also identify chief master sergeants who, through extensive
experience and training, have demonstrated managerial ability to plan, direct, coordinate, implement, and
control a wide range of work activity. Some managerial duties and responsibilities that are common to all
chief enlisted managers are: managing and directing personnel resource activities; interpreting and
enforcing policy and applicable directives; establishing control procedures to meet work goals and
standards; recommending or initiating actions to improve functional operation efficiency; planning and
programming work commitments and schedules; developing plans regarding facilities, supplies, and
equipment procurement and maintenance.
Collaboration. Collaboration is the interaction among two or more individuals encompassing a variety of
behaviors including: communication, information sharing, coordination, cooperation, problem-solving, and
negotiation.
Collaborative Tools. Collaborative tools consist of various web-based technologies including advanced
white boarding, groupware, and facilitation. Collaborative capabilities assist significantly with managing
information throughout its life cycle and enable Air Force members to perform most office-oriented and
operational communication tasks from their desktops.
Command, Control, Communications, Computer, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
(C4ISR). Integrated systems of doctrine, procedures, organizational structures, personnel, equipment,
facilities, and communications designed to support a commander’s exercise of command and control
through all phases of the operational continuum. C4 systems include base visual information support
systems.
Communications-Computer Systems (C-CS). The facilities, equipment, communications, procedures,
and personnel essential to a commander for planning, directing, and controlling operations of assigned
forces pursuant to the missions assigned.
Communications-Electronics (C-E). The specialized field concerned with the use of electronic devices
and systems for the acquisition or acceptance, processing, storage, display, analysis, protection,
disposition, and transfer of information.
Computer Based Training (CBT). A forum for training in which the student learns via a computer
terminal. It is an especially effective training tool that allows the students to practice applications while they
learn.
Content Management (CM). A set of processes and technologies supporting the evolutionary life cycle of
digital information. This digital information is often referred to as content or, to be precise, digital content.
Digital content may take the form of text, such as documents, multimedia files like audio or video files, or
any other file type that follows a content life cycle requiring management.
Continuation Training. Additional advanced training that exceeds the minimum upgrade training
requirements and emphasizes present or future duty assignments.
Core Competency. An integrated bundle of expert knowledge and organizational skills inherent to a
particular career field(s) which makes a disproportionate contribution to the success of providing the right
skills needed for military operations, anywhere anytime. It cannot be duplicated by any other organization,
and is critical for the future.
Core Task. A task AFCFMs identify as a minimum qualification requirement for everyone within an AFSC,
regardless of duty position. A core task may be specified for a particular skill level or in general across the
AFSC. Guidance for using core tasks can be found in the applicable CFETP narrative.


                                                        3
Course Objective List (COL). A publication derived from the initial/advanced skills Course Training
Standard (CTS), identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements and respective standards provided to
achieve a 3-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to assist in conducting graduate
evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program.
Course Training Standard (CTS). A standard developed for all courses not governed by an STS,
including specialized training packages and computer-based training courses.
Critical Tasks. Critical Tasks are tasks that require specific training and certification above and beyond
other tasks. Tasks may be defined as critical either through AFI, Technical Orders, higher headquarters, or
at any level in the unit.
Cross Utilization Training. Training on non duty AFSC specific tasks.
Cyberspace. A global domain within the information environment consisting of the interdependent network
of information technology infrastructures, including the Internet, telecommunications networks, computer
systems, and embedded processors and controllers.
Cyberspace operations. The employment of cyber capabilities where the primary purpose is to achieve
objectives in or through cyberspace. Such operations include computer network operations and activities to
operate and defend the global information grid (GIG).
Data Management. The process of planning, coordinating, sharing, and controlling organizations’ data
resources (AFPD 33-3, Information Management).
Direct Reporting Unit (DRU). Air Force subdivisions directly subordinate to the CSAF. A DRU performs a
mission that does not fit into any of the MAJCOMs. A DRU has many of the same administrative and
organizational responsibilities as a MAJCOM (Example of a DRU: USAF Academy).
Document Management (DM). The process of managing documents through their life cycle; from
inception through creation, review, storage, dissemination, and archival or deletion. Document
management can also be a database system to organize stored documents, or a search mechanism to
quickly find specific documents. (AFPD 33-3)
DoD Directive 8570.01 “Information Assurance Training, Certification and Workforce Management.”
Provides guidance and procedures for the training, certification, and management of the DoD workforce
conducting Information Assurance (IA) functions in assigned duty positions.
Duty Position Tasks. The tasks assigned to an individual for the position currently held. These include, at
a minimum, all core tasks that correspond to the duty position and tasks assigned by the supervisor (AFI
36-2201).
Education and Training Course Announcement (ETCA). Located at https://etca.randolph.af.mil, the
ETCA contains specific MAJCOM procedures, fund cite instructions, reporting instructions, and listings for
those formal courses the MAJCOMs or FOAs conduct or manage. The ETCA contains courses the Air
Force and reserve forces conduct or administer and serves as a reference for the Air Force, DoD, other
military services, government agencies, and security assistance programs.
Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training
(on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in each skill level of a specialty.
Enterprise Information Management (EIM). Encompasses a set of strategies for organizational
management of all aspects of enterprise data as information assets. The proper models, data architecture,
application architecture, and integration vision enables using the “enterprise information asset” for strategic
analysis, customer-centricity, performance and productivity analytics, and personalization, eventually
providing a means for transitioning from an operational, line-of-business oriented application environment,
to an intelligent, learning, and agile organization.
Enterprise. The entire range of communications/networking within garrison and tactical realms to include
voice, video, data, imagery, and sensor.
Expeditionary Aerospace Force (EAF). The EAF concept is how the Air Force will organize, train, equip,
and sustain itself by creating a mindset and cultural state that embraces the unique characteristics of



                                                       4
aerospace power – range, speed, flexibility, precision – to meet the national security challenges of the 21st
Century.
Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video, or other
necessary means to supplement training.
Field Operating Agency (FOA). FOAs are subdivisions of the Air Force directly subordinate to a
headquarters US Air Force functional manager. An FOA performs field activities beyond the scope of any
of the MAJCOMs. The activities are specialized or associated with an Air Force-wide mission (Example of
a FOA: is the Air Force Weather Agency).
Field Training. Technical, operator, and other training that either a field training detachment or field
training team conducts at operational locations on specific systems and associated direct-support
equipment for maintenance and aircrew personnel.
Functional Area Manager (FAM). The individual accountable for the management and oversight of all
personnel and equipment within a specific functional area to support operational planning and execution.
Responsibilities include, but are not limited to, developing and reviewing policy; developing, managing, and
maintaining Unit Type Codes (UTC); developing criteria for and monitoring readiness reporting; force
posturing; and analysis. At each level of responsibility (Headquarters Air Force, MAJCOM, Air Component,
FOA, DRU, and Unit), the FAM should be the most highly knowledgeable and experienced person within
the functional area and have the widest range of visibility over the functional area readiness and capability
issues (AFI 36-2201)
Functional Manager (FM). An individual assigned collateral responsibility for training, classification,
utilization and career development of personnel. AFSC Functional Managers exist at MAJCOM, NAF and
base level.
Global Combat Support System – Air Force (GCSS-AF). An enterprise infrastructure program
established to develop, integrate, and deploy combat support information capabilities. The mission of
GCSS-AF is to provide timely, accurate, and trusted Agile Combat Support (ACS) information to Joint and
Air Force commanders, their staffs, and ACS personnel at all ranks and echelons, with the appropriate
level of security needed to execute the Air Force mission throughout the spectrum of military operations.
GCSS-AF is the means by which ACS functional systems will be modernized and integrated to improve
business processes supported on a single robust network-centric infrastructure. In addition to integrating
combat support applications, GCSS-AF also provides core enterprise services such as a common user
presentation through the AF Portal, Enterprise Information Management (Workflow, Records Management,
Document Management, Knowledge Management, and Collaboration), and an enterprise data warehouse.
Global Command and Control System (GCCS). An automated information system designed to support
deliberate and crisis planning with the use of an integrated set of analytic tools and flexible data transfer
capabilities. GCCS will become the single C4I system to support the warfighter from foxhole to command
post.
Global Information Grid (GIG). The globally interconnected, end-to-end set of information capabilities,
associated processes, and personnel for collecting, processing, storing, disseminating and managing
information on demand to warfighters, policy makers, and support personnel. The GIG includes all owned
and leased communications and computing systems and services, software (including applications), data,
security services, and other associated services necessary to achieve Information Superiority. The GIG
supports all Department of Defense, National Security, and related Intelligence community missions and
functions (strategic, operational, tactical, and business), in war and in peace. The GIG provides
capabilities from all operating locations (bases, posts, camps, stations, facilities, mobile platforms, and
deployed sites). The GIG provides interfaces to coalition, allied, and non-DOD users and systems.
Go/No-Go. The “Go” is the stage at which a trainee has gained enough skill, knowledge, and experience
to perform the tasks without supervision; meets the task standard. “No-Go” is the stage at which the
trainee has not gained enough skill, knowledge, and experience to perform task without supervision; does
not meet task standard.
Individual Training Plan (ITP). Use AF Form 623, On-the-Job Training Record/AF Form 623B, or other
approved records system (e.g., Training Business Area (TBA)). The AF Form 623 reflects past and current


                                                       5
qualifications and is used to determine training requirements. It is intended to be a complete history of past
training and current qualifications. Supervisors will ensure all documentation is accurate and
comprehensive.
Information Life Cycle. Typically characterized as creation or collection, processing, dissemination, use,
storage, protection, and disposition. (DoDD 8000.1, Management of the Department of Defense
Information Enterprise).
Information Management (IM). The planning, budgeting, manipulating, and controlling of information
throughout its life cycle. Joint Publication 3-0 further defines IM as the function of managing an
organization’s information resources by the handling of knowledge acquired by one or many different
individuals and organizations in a way that optimizes access by all who have a share in that knowledge or a
right to that knowledge.
Information Resources Management (IRM). The process of managing information resources to
accomplish agency missions and to improve agency performance (e.g., the reduction of information
collection burdens on the public). (AFPD 33-1)
Initial Skills Training. A formal school course that results in an AFSC 3-skill level award for enlisted or
mandatory upgrade training to qualified officers. (AFI 36-2201)
Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly (but flexible) process for planning,
developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures personnel are taught in a cost
efficient way to become educated on the knowledge, skills, and abilities essential for successful job
performance.
Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS). JTRS will link the power of the Global Information Grid (GIG) to the
war fighter in applying fire effects and achieving overall battlefield superiority. By developing and
implementing an open architecture of cutting-edge radio waveform technology, multiple radio types (e.g.,
handheld, ground-mobile, airborne, maritime, etc.) are now allowed to communicate with one another. The
ultimate goal is to produce a family of interoperable, modular, software-defined radios that operate as
nodes in a network to ensure secure wireless communication and networking services for mobile and fixed
forces. These goals extend to U.S. allies, joint and coalition partners, and disaster response personnel.
Knowledge Based Operations (KBO). KBO is the Air Force approach for managing information and
intellectual capital assets, such as people, processes and tools. Having timely, accurate, and relevant
information is critical to build the Air Force’s information superiority.
Knowledge Management (KM). The handling, directing, governing, or controlling of natural knowledge
processes (acquire/validate, produce, transfer/integrate knowledge) within an organization in order to
achieve the goals and objectives of the organization. KM seeks to make the best use of the knowledge
available to an organization, creating new knowledge, and increasing awareness and understanding in the
process. KM can also be defined as the capturing, organizing, and storing of knowledge and experiences
of individual workers and groups within an organization and making this information available to others in
the organization. (AFPD 33-3)
Knowledge Training. Training used to provide a base of knowledge for task performance. It may also be
used in lieu of task performance when the training capability does not exist. Learning gained through
knowledge rather than hands-on experience. (AFI 36-2201)
Major Command (MAJCOM). A MAJCOM represents a major Air Force subdivision having a specific
portion of the Air Force mission. Each MAJCOM is directly subordinate to HQ USAF. MAJCOMs are
interrelated and complementary, providing offensive, defensive, and support elements.
Master Task Listing (MTL). A comprehensive list (100%) of all tasks performed within a work center and
consisting of the current CFETP or AFJQS and locally developed AF Forms 797. Also, should include
tasks required for deployment and/or UTC requirements.
Master Training Plan (MTP). Employs a strategy for ensuring the completion of all work center job
requirements by using an MTL, providing milestones for task/CDC completion, and prioritizing
deployment/UTC tasks, home station training tasks, upgrade tasks, and qualification tasks.



                                                      6
Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational survey of
tasks performed within a particular AFSC.
On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify personnel in both
upgrade (skill level award) and job qualification (duty position) training.
Proficiency Training. Additional training, either in-residence, or exportable advanced training courses, or
on-the-job training provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum
required for upgrade.
Qualification Training. Hands-on, task performance based training designed to qualify airmen in a
specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process and
is designed to provide skills training required to do the job.
Records Management. The planning, controlling, directing, organizing, training, promoting, and other
managerial activities involved in records creation, maintenance and use, and disposition in order to achieve
adequate and proper documentation of the policies and transactions of the Federal Government and
effective and economical management of agency operations. (AFPD 33-3)
Regional Maintenance Center (RMC). Centralizing manpower at fixed locations using remote
maintenance technology to maintain all ILS, TACAN, VOR, and ATC Radio systems and their Deployed
ATCALS (DATCALS) counterparts.
Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies (such as money, facilities, time, manpower and equipment)
that preclude desired training from being delivered.
Specialized Training Package and COMSEC Qualification Training Package. A composite of lesson
plans, test material, instructions, policy, doctrine, and procedures necessary to conduct training. These
packages are prepared by AETC, approved by National Security Agency (NSA), and administered by
qualified communications security (COMSEC) maintenance personnel.
Specialty Training Requirements Team. A meeting chaired by the AFCFM with MAJCOM FMs, AETC
Training Managers, Subject Matter Experts (SME), and HQ AETC Occupational Analysis Division (OAD)in
attendance. Typically held three months prior to a Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) to finalize
any CFETP changes or enlisted classification directory descriptions.
Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force specialty in
terms of tasks and knowledge that an airman in that specialty may be expected to perform or to know on
the job. Also identifies the training provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, or 7-skill level within an enlisted AFS. It
further serves as a contract between AETC and the functional user to show which of the overall training
requirements for an Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) are taught in formal schools and correspondence
courses.
Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept established and defined by authority,
custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring quantities or qualities,
establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results. It is a fixed quantity or quality.
System Training Plan (STP). A living document that explains what training is needed for a system and
how to obtain the training.
Task Module (TM). A group of tasks performed together within an AFS that require common knowledge,
skills, and abilities. TMs are identified by an identification code and a statement.
Total Force. All collective components (active, reserve, guard and civilian elements) of the United States
Air Force.
Training Advisory Group (TAG). Chaired by the AFCFM and attended by the MAJCOM, selected DRU’s
and FOA functional managers. The TAG sets training goals and priorities, reviews training programs and
evaluates emerging training technologies. The group meets, as required, to prioritize training product
development.
Training Business Area (TBA). A web-based training application that provides Air Force war fighters with
global, real-time visibility into qualifications, certifications, and training status of communications



                                                        7
professionals. TBA supports base, wing, and work center training management activities by
automating business processes and capabilities to eliminate paper-based practices. The system
centralizes management of training task data, provides user access to CFETPs/JQSs, and increases
security through a single AF Portal log on.
Training Capability. The capability of a training setting to provide training on specified requirements,
based on the availability of resources.
Training Planning Team (TPT). Comprised of the same personnel as a U&TW, TPTs are more intimately
involved in training development and the range of issues examined is greater than in the U&TW forum.
Training Requirements Analysis (TRA). A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFSC to be included
in the training decision process.
Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-the-job, field
training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.).
Unit Type Code (UTC). A five-character alphanumeric code identifying a specific force package of
personnel and/or equipment. The UTC is the means for linking logistics and manpower details within a unit
type and is used to communicate force data. The UTC represents a wartime capability designed to fill a
valid contingency requirement.
Upgrade Training. Training that leads to the award of a higher skill level.
Utilization and Training Pattern. A depiction of the training provided to, and the jobs performed by,
personnel throughout their tenure within a career field or AFS. There are two types of patterns: 1) Current
pattern, which is based on the training provided to incumbents and the jobs to which they have been and
are assigned; and 2) Alternate pattern, which considers proposed changes in manpower, personnel, and
training policies.
Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum of the AFCFM, MAJCOM Functional Managers,
subject matter experts (SME) and AETC training personnel that determines career ladder training
requirements. This is an executive decision meeting following the Specialty Training Requirements Team
meeting.
Wartime Tasks. Those tasks which must be taught when courses are accelerated during a wartime
environment. In response to a wartime scenario, these tasks will be taught in the 3-level course in a
streamlined training environment. These tasks are only for those career fields that still need them applied
to their schoolhouse tasks.
Workflow. A series of steps necessary for the initiation, tracking, and delivery of services or outputs with
the capability to cut across existing or future organizational boundaries. Furthermore, web-based workflow
products allow electronic coordination, staffing, and task management of documents and files. They are
relational to an electronic version of the Staff Summary Sheet (SSS) and other AF/DoD forms used for
routing/collection of information. Automation provides the capability to suspense and track correspondence
through the workflow process and provides action officers and document originators status on their
packages. Provides users the capabilities to comply with structured electronic workflow processes and the
flexibility to create/develop ad hoc workflow courses of actions. Future use of standardized EIM tools will
enhance usability and eliminate legacy methods.




                                                      8
Section A - General Information
1. Purpose of the CFETP. This CFETP provides the information necessary for AFCFMs, MAJCOM
Functional Managers (MFM), commanders, training managers, supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop,
manage, and conduct an effective and efficient career field training program. The plan outlines the initial
skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency training those individuals in AFSC 3D1X6 should
receive in order to develop and progress throughout their careers. Initial skills training is the AFS specific
training an individual receives upon entry into the AF or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the
3-skill level. This training is provided by the 338th Training Squadron (TRS) at Keesler AFB, MS.
Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, Career Development
Course (CDC) completion, and correspondence courses required for award of the 5-, 7-, or 9-skill level.
Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an airman in a
specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It
is designed to provide the performance skills and knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training is
formal specialty training used for selected airmen. Proficiency training is additional training, either in-
residence or exportable advanced training courses, or on-the-job training provided to personnel to
increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP has several
purposes, some of which are:
1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field-training
program. Also, ensures that established training is provided at the appropriate point in an individual's
career.
1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education and training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.
1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training and the training
medium.
1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact implementation of the desired career field training
program.


2. Use of the CFETP. The CFETP is maintained by the 3D1XX Air Force Career Field Manager
(AFCFM), SAF/CIO A6OD. MAJCOM FMs and AETC review the plan annually to ensure currency and
accuracy and forward recommended changes to the AFCFM. Using the list of courses in Part II, they
determine whether duplicate training exists and take steps to eliminate/prevent duplicate efforts. Career
field training managers at all levels use the plan to ensure a comprehensive and cohesive training
program is available for each individual in the career ladder.
2.1. AETC training personnel will develop or revise formal resident, nonresident, field, and exportable
training based upon requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of the CFETP.
They will also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to
provide the identified training.
2.2. MAJCOM FMs ensure their training programs complement the CFETP for mandatory initial skill and
upgrade requirements. They also identify the needed AFJQSs/AFQTPs to document unique upgrade and
continuation training requirements. Requirements are satisfied through OJT, resident training, contract
training, or exportable courseware/courses. MAJCOM-developed training to support this AFSC must be
included in this plan.
2.3. 81st TRSS/TSQ Qualification Training Flight (Q-Flight) personnel develop training packages
(AFJQSs/AFQTPs) based on requests submitted by the MAJCOMs and according to the priorities
assigned by the AFCFM.
2.4. Unit level training managers and supervisors manage and control progression through the career
field by ensuring individuals complete the mandatory training requirements for upgrade specified in this
plan and supplemented by their MAJCOM. The list of courses in Part II is used as a reference for
planning continuation or career enhancement training.
2.5. Submit recommended improvements/corrections to the 338th TRS/TRR Training Manager.



                                                      9
3. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP. The AFCFM is the approval authority. MAJCOM
representatives and AETC training personnel coordinate on the career field training requirements. The
AETC training manager initiates an annual review of this document by AETC and MAJCOM functional
managers to ensure the CFETP’s currency and accuracy by using the list of courses in Part II to eliminate
duplicate training.




                                                   10
Section B - Career Field Progression and Information
4. Specialty Description. This information supplements that presented in the AFECD.

4.1. Airfield Systems Apprentice/Journeyman/Craftsman (3D136/3D156/3D176).

4.1.1. Specialty Summary. Installs, removes, relocates, modifies, deploys, and maintains fixed and
mobile meteorological, navigation and air traffic control ground-to-air radio systems. Accomplishes flight
inspection duties for navigational aids. Analyzes equipment performance trends. Supervises Airfield
Systems maintenance activities. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 110200.

4.1.2. Duties and Responsibilities:
4.1.2.1. Supervises meteorological and navigation systems maintenance activities. Oversees work in
progress and reviews completed repairs for sound maintenance practices. Establishes requirements for
maintenance and support equipment, tools and spare parts. Requisitions, accounts for, and turns in
supplies and material. Diagnoses and recommends equipment repair, replacement or depot overhaul.
Certifies navigation facilities after repair actions or flight inspections. Interprets inspection findings and
determines adequacy of corrective action. Reviews and ensures compliance with maintenance
management publications and procedures. Develops and enforces safety standards for Airfield Systems
activities.
4.1.2.2. Resolves technical problems and improves maintenance methods and techniques. Interprets
technical specifications and provides guidance. Solves technical problems requiring interpretation of
schematic, logic and wiring diagrams.
4.1.2.3. Installs, removes and relocates Airfield Systems equipment. Studies system characteristics, local
terrain, and planned base facilities and requirements. Determines equipment position based on plans,
diagrams and specifications. Checks and inventories equipment and project materials for serviceability.
Assembles, connects and wires components, assemblies and antenna systems. Performs operational
tests, and adjusts and aligns equipment. Completes commissioning flight inspections for navigational
aids. Places Airfield Systems equipment in operation.
4.1.2.4. Prepares equipment for deployment. Deploys, sets up, and activates transportable Airfield
Systems equipment. Completes navigation systems flight inspections. Places systems in operation.
4.1.2.5. Maintains Airfield Systems equipment. Uses specialized test equipment and software controlled
diagnostics to isolate malfunctions. Repairs mechanical and electrical assemblies and subassemblies.
Tunes, aligns, and adjusts equipment. Completes flight inspections on navigational aids. Cleans and
lubricates equipment. Performs corrosion control. Modifies equipment in accordance with technical
directives. Completes performance tests and evaluates results to ensure proper system operation.
Initiates action to correct unsatisfactory equipment performance trends.
4.1.2.6. Maintains inspection and maintenance records. Posts entries on maintenance and inspection
records. Records and reviews meter readings, test results, and historical data in equipment records.
Completes and reviews maintenance data collection and equipment status reporting forms. Evaluates
and recommends methods to improve technical data, system performance, and maintenance procedures.
4.1.2.7.    Manages, supervises, and performs planning and implementation activities. Manages
implementation and project installation and ensures architecture, configuration, and integration
conformity. Develops, plans, and integrates base communications systems. Serves as advisor at
meetings for facility design, military construction programs and minor construction planning. Evaluates
base comprehensive plan and civil engineering projects. Monitors status of base civil engineer work
requests. Performs mission review with customers. Controls, manages, and monitors project milestones
and funding from inception to completion. Determines adequacy and correctness of project packages and
amendments. Monitors project status and completion actions. Manages and maintains system installation
records, files, and indexes. Evaluates contracts, wartime, support, contingency and exercise plans to
determine impact on manpower, equipment, and systems.




                                                     11
4.2. Cyber Systems Superintendent (3D190).
4.2.1. Specialty Summary. Manages system analysis and design, programming, systems operation, and
maintenance, resource management and security management. Directs activities for installing, maintaining,
repairing, overhauling, deploying, and modifying cyberspace systems and equipment platforms to include:
voice, data, video client devices, and network infrastructure systems, ground radar, radio, meteorological,
navigation, satellite, intrusion detection, space systems, telemetry, microwave, and cryptographic. In
addition, manages and directs network and electronic warfare operations in garrison and at deployed
locations by performing duties to develop, sustain, and enhance network and electromagnetic capabilities to
defend national interests from attack and to create effects in the cyberspace domain to achieve national
objectives. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 110100.
4.2.2. Duties and Responsibilities:
4.2.2.1. Plans and organizes maintenance activities. Plans and supervises system installation and evaluates
facilities layout and performance standards. Designs and develops organizational structures and determines
equipment, training, and supplies required for systems implementation and support. Executes operational
plans to ensure positive control of assigned forces. Evaluates operational readiness of communications
equipment, network devices, sensors, intrusion detection, and related support equipment.
4.2.2.2. Directs activities responsible for system analysis and design, programming, operations and
maintenance, security, systems management, technical support and resource management. Implements
and interprets policies, directives and procedures.
4.2.2.3. Directs maintenance activities. Directs personnel employed in siting, deploying, inspecting,
adjusting, removing, replacing, and repairing communications systems and related equipment. Prepares and
analyzes reports encompassing siting, deploying, maintaining, installing, repairing and removing
communications systems and related equipment. Coordinates activities and resolves common problems.
Directs overhaul and repair of communications systems and related equipment. Ensures work standards are
maintained. Determines extent and economy of repair, including disposition of malfunctioning equipment.
4.2.2.4. Inspects and evaluates maintenance activities for compliance with directives. Evaluates, rates and
prepares reports on activity effectiveness. Recommends and implements corrective action for improved
methods and procedures. Evaluates effectiveness of equipment usage, systems performance, customer
service, supplies, and system scheduling, processing, and maintenance.
4.2.2.5. Supervises maintenance functions. Resolves problems with installing, maintaining, repairing, and
overhauling systems and equipment. Checks systems and equipment for proper siting, installation, and
serviceability. Establishes local maintenance procedures and policies. Performs research and development
of new systems and equipment.
4.2.2.6. Establishes training requirements. Establishes training programs to meet local knowledge and
certification requirements.
4.2.2.7. Plans, programs, and develops budget inputs to ensure resource availability for operational
requirements.
4.2.2.8. Manages plans, implementation, and development functions. Helps functional users define
requirements. Supervises functional user requirements translation into automated systems capabilities.
Organizes teams that use methodologies to meet mission requirements. Supervises test and evaluation
efforts to determine performance. Organizes and participates in mission implementation and conversion.
Ensures continued interface between functional users and programming and operations personnel. Ensures
compliance with standards for systems documentation.
4.3. Chief Enlisted Manager. This specialty “caps” at the Chief Master Sergeant level with those
specialties that came up through the Cyber Support Systems Specialist (3D1XX) career ladders.
Personnel attaining the rank of CMSgt are assigned broad ranging duties in directing and managing
diverse communication functions.
4.4. MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM). (AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program; AFI 36-2101,
Classifying Military Personnel (Officers and Airmen); Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory).
Appointed by the MAJCOM Director of Communications (A6) or equivalent. Advises the MAJCOM/A6


                                                    12
and staff on 3D1XX utilization and training issues. Serves as the MAJCOM voting representative during
career field Utilization and Training Workshops. Assists in gathering inputs and data to complete enlisted
grade allocation for Career Progression Group (CPG) reviews. Provides guidance to subordinate units on
3D1XX personnel issues. Assists with the dissemination of information regarding Air Force and career
field policies, plans, programs, and procedures to subordinate units. Assists in identifying qualified subject
matter experts to help with the development of Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKT) and the Career
Development Course (CDC). Acts as the primary MAJCOM reviewer on CDC training and classification
waiver request packages. Coordinates on all MAJCOM 3D1XX staffing and manpower issues.
4.5. Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). (AFPD 36-22, Military Training; AFI 36-2201, Air Force
Training Program; AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officers and Airmen); Air Force Enlisted
Classification Directory). Appointed by the Air Force Chief of Warfighting Integration and Chief
Information Officer (SAF/CIO A6). Advisor to the SAF/CIO A6 on all matters affecting the Cyber
Operations career fields. Communicates directly with MFMs and AETC Training Managers to
disseminate Air Force and career field policies and program requirements. Ensures development,
implementation, and maintenance of the CFETP. Serves as the chairperson for the U&TW and uses it as
a forum to determine and manage career field education and training requirements. Possesses final
authority to waive CFETP requirements, including CDCs. Assists AETC training managers and course
supervisors with planning, developing, implementing, and maintaining all AFSC-specific training courses.
Assists in the development of AFSC-related manpower standards.




                                                     13
5. Skill/Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to
superintendent skill levels play an important role in the Air Force's ability to accomplish its mission. It is
essential that everyone involved in training do their part to plan, manage and conduct an effective training
program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP and the 3D1X6 Education and Training Path
able will ensure individuals receive viable training at appropriate points in their careers.



                                                       3D1X6 Career Path Chart

                                                                                 CMSAF              Professional Development
                                                                               CFM/CCM              CMSgt Leadership Course
                                                                               CIP/NOM              Senior Leader Development
                                                                             MAJCOM FM              CMSgt Orientation
                23.57 yrs                                                  PME Commandant/
                                                                           Obj Asgn / Crossflow     CCM Orientation
                                                                            NAF / HQ USAF
9 Level




                                                                        MAJCOM Lead / Joint / AEF


                                                                     Supervisory Skill Upgrade (9-Level)           Professional Development
                20.47 yrs                                         Base Functional / Flight Supt/ Air Staff         SNCO Academy
                                                                       MAJCOM Program Manager /                    Professional Education Seminar
                                                                  Superintendent/Joint / AEF / NCOIC               SNCO JPME
                                                                         Broadening Experience                     SNCO Correspondence
                                                               Recruiter, PME, Instructor Duty, MTL/MTI,
                16.56 yrs                                     First Sergeant, UDM, Training / Security Mgr
                                                            Build breadth by learning/mastering 3D1XX areas
7 Level




                                                                     Upgrade Training (7-Level)                                   Professional Development
                10.88 yrs
                                                                      NCOIC, Airfield Systems                                     NCO Academy
                                                - Navigation/Landing Sys - Weather sensors/sys - Functional sys admin             PE Seminar
                                             - UHF/VHF/HF Radio - Control console interfaces - Detect, identify, defend           CCAF / AU ABC
                4.85 yrs                                                Broadening Experience
5 Level




                                                       Special Duty, Recruiter, PME, Instructor Duty, Joint, AEF                      Professional Development
                                                                                                                                      Airman Leadership School
                                                               CDC / OJT Upgrade Training (5-Level)
                36/28 Mos
                                                               Technical Training School(s) (3-Level)
                                         Retraining              Develop Job Proficiency           Functional / Operational Tour                    Professional
                16 Mos             - Communications Principles        - Antenna theory                      - Systems interface                     Development
3 Level




                                   - Transmission theory               - ECM/EMI theory/identification      - Spectrum application                  FTAC
                6 Mos

      Note: Average Time in Service (TIS) based on 2008 AF Promotion results. Refer to AFPC Web site for current information (https://ask.afpc.randolph.mil).




6. Training Decisions. This CFETP was developed to encapsulate an entire spectrum of training
requirements for the Airfield Systems career field, using a building block approach (simple to complex).
Included in this spectrum was the strategy of when, where, and how to meet the training requirements.
The strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce duplication of training and eliminate a disjointed
approach to training.

6.1. Proficiency Training. This training is job qualification for an assigned duty position. Additional
qualification training becomes necessary when personnel transfer to another duty position, the unit
mission changes, a new personnel program comes on board, or any time changes in techniques or
procedures occur.

6.1.1. The 81st TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight) develops AFJQSs/AFQTPs to support tasks relating to
communications-electronics and communications-computer systems, functions and duties. Completion of
AFJQSs/AFQTPs is mandatory by duty position for personnel in upgrade or qualification training.

6.1.2. CDC development is restricted to six volumes, two hundred pages each. The first volumes will be
common to all 3D1XX AFSCs, followed by the respective AFSC-specific volumes. The following table
outlines 5-level CDC contents.




                                                                              14
                                                  3DX5X
   VOLUME 1                      Support to the Cyberspace Mission
   VOLUME 2                      Information Technology Concepts & Maintenance Practices
                                                  3D156
   VOLUME 1                      Duties, Test Equipment, Transmit and Receive Fundamentals,
                                 Airfield Systems Configuration/Layout
   VOLUME 2                      Air Traffic Control Navigation Systems
   VOLUME 3                      Meteorological, Radio Communication/Recorder, Tactical Airfield, and
                                 Special Systems

6.2. No CDC or 7-level course currently exists for upgrade to 7-level.

6.3. Commercial Certifications. Below are some available commercial certifications for 3D1X6
technicians. An “X” in the DANTES column indicates that testing may be completed at the base
education office. Tuition Assistance (TA) pays for only one certification during an entire career. See the
local base education office for more information. The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has licensing
and certification benefits that can be used, including the Montgomery GI Bill. Visit
http://www.gibill.va.gov/pamphlets/lcweb.htm for more information.

              Certifications                       Criteria                   Website                 DANTES
Electronics Technician Association
(ETA)                                        • Experience
                                                                  http://www.eta-i.org/                      X
• Associate CET                              • Written Exam
• Journeyman CET Competencies
   o Wireless Communications
National Association of Radio and
Telecommunications Engineers                 • Education
(NARTE)                                      • Experience         http://www.narte.org                       X
• Junior Telecommunications Tech             • References
• Senior Telecommunications Tech             • Written Exam
• Master Telecommunications Tech
Federal Communications
Commission (FCC) General                                          http://wireless.fcc.gov/commop             X
                                             • Written Exam
Radio Operator’s License                                          erators/pg.html
(GROL)
IA Technical Level I                         • Education          IT E-Learning Website
                                                                                                             X
         A+                                  • Experience         Certification exam voucher
         Network +                           • Written Exam       available from AFNIC*
IA Technical Level II                        • Education          IT E-Learning Website
                                                                                                             X
IA Management Level I                        • Experience         Certification exam voucher
         Security +                          • Written Exam       available from AFNIC*
IA Technical Level III                       • Education          IT E-Learning Website
                                                                                                             X
IA Management Level II & Level III           • Experience         Certification exam voucher
         CISSP                               • Written Exam       available from AFNIC*

* Must be assigned to a coded position
7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Academic Programs. Enrollment in CCAF occurs
upon completion of basic military training. CCAF provides the opportunity for all enlisted members to
obtain an Associate in Applied Science degree. In order to be awarded the CCAF degree, all academic
requirements must be completed before the student separates from the Air Force, retires, or is
commissioned as an officer. In addition to its associate’s degree program, CCAF offers the following:


                                                     15
7.1. CCAF Instructor Certification. The College offers the CCAF Instructor Certification to instructors
teaching full time in a CCAF affiliated school. To qualify, instructors must complete a 3 semester hour
Instructor Methodology course, a 12 semester hour Teaching Internship, have one year teaching
experience from date of Teaching Internship completion, hold an associate or higher degree, complete at
least 1,000 hours of documented practical experience teaching a CCAF course(s), and be recommended
by their commander/commandant.
7.2. The Electronic Systems Technology (4VHP) program applies to this career fields.
7.2.1. Degree Requirements: Individuals must hold the 5-skill level at the time of program completion.

                                                                                                             Semester hours
Technical Education ................................................................................................. 24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies ....................................................... 6
Physical Education ................................................................................................... 4
General Education ................................................................................................... 15
Program Electives .................................................................................................... 15
                                                                                                              Total 64

7.2.2. Technical Education (24 semester hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of Technical Core
subjects and courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours will be applied from Technical
Core/Technical Elective subjects and courses.
7.2.3. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 semester hours): Professional military education
and/or civilian management courses. See CCAF General Catalog for application of civilian management
courses.
7.2.4. Physical Education (4 semester hours): Satisfied upon completion of basic military training.
7.2.5. General Education (15 semester hours): Courses must meet the criteria for application of courses
to the General Education requirement and be in agreement with the definitions of applicable General
Education subjects/courses as outlined in the CCAF General Catalog.
7.2.6. Program Elective (15 semester hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education; Leadership,
Management, and Military Studies; or General Education courses, including natural science courses
meeting General Education requirement application criteria. Six semester hours of CCAF degree
applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied.
7.3. The Professional Manager Certification (PMC): The College offers a professional credential that
formally recognizes an individual’s advanced level of education and experience in leadership and
management, as well as professional accomplishments. The program provides a structured professional
development track that supplements Enlisted Professional Military Education (EPME) and Career Field
Education and Training Plan (CFETP).
7.3.1. The PMC is primarily designed for Air Force SNCO’s. However, any enlisted Airmen who meet all
program requirements may be nominated and awarded the PMC. Once an individual retires, separates
or is commissioned, they are no longer eligible for the PMC.
7.3.2. PMC Requirements:
7.3.2.1. Award of 7 skill-level (Craftsman) or higher
7.3.2.2. Complete ALS or equivalent EPME (In-residence or correspondence)
7.3.2.3. Complete NCOA or equivalent EPME (In-residence or correspondence)
7.3.2.4. Complete SNCOA or equivalent EPME (In-residence or correspondence)
7.3.2.5. Complete 30 semester hours of leadership/management coursework.
7.3.2.5.1. At least 6 semester hours of leadership/management coursework
must be completed from an accredited college or university by testing credit (CLEP/DSST/Excelsior).



                                                                     16
7.3.2.5.2. Civilian courses must emphasize the fundamentals of leadership and/or management of
human resources. Examples: Principles of Management, Personnel Management, Human Resource
Management, Principles of Supervision, and Organizational behavior
7.3.2.6. A copy of the civilian college or university transcript reflecting completed leadership/management
courses is required.
7.3.2.7. Credit by earned completion of EPME is applied toward the 30 semester hour requirement.
7.3.3. Awarded CCAF degree
7.3.4. Recommended for certification by the unit commander or commandant.
7.4. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill certification is
awarded for the primary occupational specialty. The College uses a competency based assessment
process for trade skill certification at one of four proficiency levels: Apprentice, Journeyman, Craftsman
(Supervisor), or Master Craftsman (Manager). All are transcribed on the CCAF transcript.
7.5. See the current CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science in
Electronic Systems Technology. The catalog is available at your education office, or from
http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/.
7.6. Additional off-duty education is highly encouraged. Individuals desiring to become an AETC
instructor should be actively pursuing an associate degree. A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain
CCAF’s accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.




                                                     17
8. Career Field Path. The following summarizes career progression and personnel allocations across
the career ladder. 3D0XX and 3D1XX personnel maintain their individual AFSC identifiers through the
rank of MSgt. Upon promotion to SMSgt, 3D0X1/3D0X2/3D0X3/3D0X4 merge to become a 3D090;
AFSCs 3D1X1/3D1X2/3D1X3/3D1X4/3D1X5/3D1X6/3D1X7 merge to become a 3D190. Specific
demographic information is available on the Web at http://wwa.afpc.randolph.af.mil/demographics/.




                                                 18
                                                       3D1X6, AIRFIELD SYSTEMS
                                                     EDUCATION AND TRAINING PATH
                                EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                                         AVERAGE SEW ON TIME
                                    REQUIREMENTS                                                                  AND COMMENTS
BASIC MILITARY TRAINING SCHOOL
APPRENTICE TECHNICAL SCHOOL (3-SKILL LEVEL) ....... Mandatory                                                Amn ...................... 6 months
UPGRADE TO JOURNEYMAN (5-SKILL LEVEL)                                                                        A1C ...................... 16 months
Minimum 12 months OJT training (9 months for retrainees). Complete
5-Level CDCs. ......................................................................... Mandatory

                                                                                                             SrA ....................... 3 years
Specific AFJQSs/AFQTPs for equipment at assigned location.                                                   Earliest ................. 28 Months
................................................................................................ Mandatory   HYT ...................... 10 years

CS Management and Generic AFJQSs/AFQTPs for various unit level
duties. ...................................................................................... Mandatory

AETC Supplemental training courses as determined by MAJCOM
................................................................................................ Optional

Community College of the Air Force Associates Degree
................................................................................................ Optional
AIRMAN LEADERSHIP SCHOOL (ALS)                                                                               TRAINER: Must meet trainer
Attendance is limited to SSgt selectees or those attaining 48 months                                         eligibility requirements as per
Total Active Federal Military Service (TAFMS) and who have not been                                          AFI 36-2201
selected for promotion to SSgt. Completion is mandatory before
assuming the rank of SSgt. ANG/AFRC may complete by
correspondence course. .......................................................... Mandatory
UPGRADE TO CRAFTSMAN (7-SKILL LEVEL)                                                                         SSgt ..................... 4.85 years
Minimum rank of SSgt. 12 months OJT training (6 months for                                                   Earliest ................. 3 years
retrainees).                                                                                                 HYT ...................... 20 years
Completion of 7-level CDCs, if available. Completion of AFQTP 3DXXX-
232A, Communication and Information Work Center Supervisor’s                                                 TSgt...................... 10.88 years
Handbook.                                                                                                    Earliest ................. 5 years
                                                                                                             HYT ...................... 22 years
Completion of the E6ACW3DX7X 01AA Cyberspace Career
Advancement Course.
                                                                                                              CERTIFIER: Must meet
Must be 7-level to sew on TSgt. .............................................. Mandatory                     certifier eligibility requirements
                                                                                                             as per AFI 36-2201
CS Management and Generic AFJQSs/AFQTPs for various unit level
duties. ...................................................................................... Mandatory

AETC Supplemental training courses as determined by MAJCOM
................................................................................................ Optional
Community College of the Air Force Associates Degree
................................................................................................ Desired




                                                                               19
                                                     3D1X6, AIRFIELD SYSTEMS
                                                   EDUCATION AND TRAINING PATH
                                EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                                          AVERAGE SEW ON TIME
                                    REQUIREMENTS                                                                   AND COMMENTS
NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICER ACADEMY (NCOA).                                                                       MSgt ..................... 16.56 years
Completion is mandatory before assuming the rank of MSgt.                                                     Earliest ................. 8 years
.............................................................................................. Mandatory      HYT ...................... 24 years

Active duty attendance is limited to TSgt, MSgt Selectee, or MSgt.

ANG/AFRC SSgt or TSgt may attend in-residence or TSgt and TSgt
Selectee may complete by correspondence course.
Community College of the Air Force Associates Degree
.............................................................................................Highly Desired
USAF SENIOR NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICER ACADEMY (SNCOA)                                                           SMSgt .................. 20.47 years
Attendance is limited to TSgt (correspondence course only), MSgt,                                             Earliest ................. 11 years
                                                                                                              HYT ...................... 26 years
SMSgt, or SMSgt Selectee Completion is mandatory before assuming
the rank of SMSgt. .................................................................. Mandatory

SNCOA Correspondence Course ........................................... Optional

ANG/AFRC may complete by correspondence course. ANG/AFRC
MSgts may attend in-residence............................................... Mandatory
UPGRADE TO SUPERINTENDENT (9-SKILL LEVEL)
Awarded upon sew on of SMSgt. ............................................ Mandatory

CS Management and Generic AFJQSs/AFQTPs for various unit level
duties. ...................................................................................... Mandatory
CHIEF MASTER SERGEANT LEADERSHIP COURSE (CLC)                                                                 CMSgt .................. 23.57 years
Attendance is limited to Chief Master Sergeants and Chief Master                                              Earliest ................. 14 years
Sergeant selects.                                                                                             HYT ...................... 30 years
………………………………………………………………..……Mandatory


NOTE 1: Published sew-on times are Air Force averages. Refer to the Air Force Personnel Center’s
homepage to determine career field specific information:
http://www.afpc.randolph.af.mil/promotions/index.asp.

NOTE 2: See Part II, Sections C and D for a list of AFJQSs/AFQTPs and AETC supplemental training.

NOTE 3: All core/duty position tasks must be completed prior to upgrade.




                                                                             20
Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements
9. Purpose. The various skill levels in the career field are defined in terms of tasks and knowledge
requirements for each skill level in the Airfield Systems career field of the Cyber Support Systems career
ladder. They are stated in broad, general terms and establish the standards of performance. Core tasks,
knowledge items and skill requirements for this specialty are identified in the STS, COL, CDCs,
AFJQSs/AFQTPs, etc. Completion of the mandatory 3-level skill awarding course, CDCs and applicable
AFJQSs/AFQTPs define the Air Force core tasks for this specialty.

10. Specialty Qualification Requirements.

10.1. Apprentice (3-Level) Training.

 KNOWLEDGE               Knowledge of electronic and network principles, information assurance,
                         mathematics principles required to solve electronic formulas; Boolean algebra
                         theory and number systems, copper and fiber-optic transmission principles,
                         cryptographic techniques, system installation practices, project and circuit
                         diagram interpretation, test equipment, special tools, and management
                         practices is mandatory.
 EDUCATION               Completion of high school is mandatory.
                         Additional courses in physics, mathematics, and a basic knowledge of
                         computers are desirable.
 TRAINING                Completion of the Airfield Systems Specialist course, E3ABR3D136 00AA
                         (PDS Code O5S)
                         (See Part II, Section B for Course Objective List)
 EXPERIENCE              None required
 OTHER                   For award and retention of AFSC 3D136, must maintain an Air Force Network
                         License according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network Users and
                         Certifying Network Professional and AFSSI 8522, Access to Information
                         Systems.
                         Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examination and
                         Standards.
                         The ability to obtain a government license according to AFMAN 24-301,
                         Vehicle Operations.
                         Freedom from fear of heights
                         Completion of a current National Agency Check, Local Agency Checks and
                         Credit (NACLC) AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management is
                         mandatory.
                         NOTE: Award of the 3-skill level without a completed NACLC is authorized
                         provided an interim Secret security clearance has been granted according
                         to AFI 31-501.
 IMPLEMENTATION          Attendance at the Apprentice Airfield Systems Specialist course is mandatory
                         for award of the 3-skill level unless waived by the AFCFM




                                                    21
10.2. Journeyman (5-Level) Training.

 KNOWLEDGE             All 3D136 knowledge qualifications apply to the 3D156 requirements
                       Completion of the 3D156 Career Development Course
                       Knowledge of advanced troubleshooting techniques; principles of air traffic
                       control radio, meteorological and navigation systems maintenance, and
                       networking; use of technical data; system block, data flow, schematic, logic,
                       and interconnecting wiring diagrams is mandatory
 TRAINING              No mandatory AETC training courses are required for upgrade.
 EXPERIENCE            Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3D136
                       Experience installing, testing, aligning, repairing, flight inspecting, and
                       removing Airfield Systems equipment
                       Completion of all STS core tasks
                       Completion of applicable AFJQSs/AFQTPs
                       Completion of all local tasks assigned for the duty position
 OTHER                 For award and retention of AFSC 3D156, must maintain an Air Force Network
                       License according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network Users and
                       Certifying Network Professional and AFSSI 8522, Access to Information
                       Systems.
                       Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and
                       Standards.
                       The ability to obtain a government license according to AFMAN 24-301,
                       Vehicle Operations.
                       Freedom from fear of heights
                       Current National Agency Check, Local Agency Checks and Credit (NACLC)
                       AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management is mandatory.
 IMPLEMENTATION        Entry into formal journeyman upgrade training is accomplished once
                       individuals are assigned to their first duty station.
                       Qualification training is initiated anytime individuals are assigned duties for
                       which they are not qualified.
                       Use CDCs, CBTs, and AFJQSs/AFQTPs concurrently to obtain the necessary
                       qualification for refresher and cross-utilization training.




                                                 22
10.3. Craftsman (7-Level) Training.

 KNOWLEDGE              All 3D156 knowledge qualifications apply to the 3D176 requirements
                        Completion of AFQTP 3DXXX-232A, Work Center Supervisor’s Handbook
 TRAINING               Completion of the E6ACW3DX7X 01AA Cyberspace Career Advancement
                        Course.
 EXPERIENCE             Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3D156
                        Experience performing or supervising functions such as installing, testing,
                        aligning, repairing, flight inspecting, and removing Airfield Systems equipment.
                        Completion of all STS core tasks
                        Completion of applicable AFJQSs/AFQTPs
                        Completion of all local tasks assigned for the duty position
 OTHER                  For award and retention of AFSC 3D176, must maintain an Air Force Network
                        License according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network Users and
                        Certifying Network Professional and AFSSI 8522, Access to Information
                        Systems.
                        Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and
                        Standards.
                        The ability to obtain a government license according to AFMAN 24-301,
                        Vehicle Operations.
                        Freedom from fear of heights
                        Current National Agency Check, Local Agency Checks and Credit (NACLC)
                        AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management is mandatory.
 IMPLEMENTATION         Entry into OJT is initiated when individuals obtain the necessary rank and skill
                        level.
                        Qualification training is initiated anytime an individual is assigned duties for
                        which they are not qualified.
                        Use CDCs and AFJQSs/AFQTPs concurrently to obtain the necessary
                        qualification for refresher and cross-utilization training.




                                                  23
10.4. Superintendent (9-Level) Training.

 KNOWLEDGE                 Techniques and procedures of systems analysis and design
                           Interpretation of wiring and logic diagrams
                           Networking Principles
                           Project Management
                           Software methodology
                           System operation and maintenance
                           System and equipment capability, capacity, and logic
                           Performance measurement, security, and resource management
 TRAINING                  No mandatory AETC training courses are required for upgrade.
 EXPERIENCE                Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3D17X
                           Managing or directing functions such as installing, maintaining, repairing, or
                           modifying the various systems and related equipment of the feeder specialties.
 OTHER                     For award and retention of AFSC 3D190, must maintain an Air Force Network
                           License according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network Users and
                           Certifying Network Professional and AFSSI 8522, Access to Information
                           Systems.
                           Completion of and eligibility for Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI)
                           according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management is
                           mandatory for award and retention of this skill level.
 IMPLEMENTATION            Entry into OJT is initiated when individuals are selected for the rank of SMSgt.
                           Qualification training is initiated anytime individuals are assigned duties for
                           which they are not qualified.


10.5. Training Sources.
10.5.1. AFSC specific training – 338th TRS, Keesler AFB, MS at https://etca.randolph.af.mil/
10.5.2. CDCs 3D156 are available for upgrade purposes through the unit training manager. For
individual qualification and cross-utilization training, CDCs are ordered through the unit training office.
10.5.3. AFJQSs/AFQTPs are Air Force publications and are mandatory for use by personnel in upgrade
or qualification training. They are developed by the 81st TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight), Keesler AFB, MS and
may be downloaded from https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=20946.
Procedures for requesting development of AFJQSs/AFQTPs are contained in AFI 36-2233, Air Force On-
the-Job Training Products for Communications-Electronics Enlisted Specialty Training. AFJQSs/AFQTPs
are listed in Part II of this CFETP.




                                                      24
Section D - Resource Constraints
11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints that preclude optimal/desired training
from being developed or conducted, including information such as part numbers, national stock numbers,
number of units required, cost, manpower, etc. Included are narrative explanations of each resource
constraint and an impact statement describing what effect each constraint has on training. Finally, this
section includes actions required, OPR and target completion date. Resource constraints will be, at a
minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

12. Apprentice (3-Level) Training.

12.1. Constraints: None.

12.1.1. Impact. N/A

12.1.2. Resources Required. N/A

12.1.3. Action Required. N/A

12.1.4. OPR/Target Completion Date. N/A

13. Journeyman (5-Level) Training.

13.1. Constraints: None.

13.1.1. Impact. N/A

13.1.2. Resources Required. N/A

13.1.3. Action Required. N/A

13.1.4. OPR/Target Completion Date. N/A

14. Craftsman (7-Level) Training.

14.1. Constraints: None.

14.1.1. Impact. N/A

14.1.2. Resources Required. N/A

14.1.3. Action Required. N/A

14.1.4. OPR/Target Completion Date. N/A


Section E - Transition Training Guide
There are currently no transition training requirements. This area is reserved




                                                    25
 PART II

 Section A - Specialty Training Standard
 1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC for the 3-level class
 beginning 5 October 2011.
 2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201 this STS:
 2.1. Lists in column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common tasks, knowledge,
 and technical references (TR) necessary for airman to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level.
 Column 2 (Core Tasks) identifies by skill level specialty-wide training requirements. NOTE: Core tasks
 are minimum task training requirements for upgrade.
 2.2. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and knowledge
 training requirements. Use automated training management systems to document technician
 qualifications, if available. For initial certification or transcribing documentation complete the columns in
 accordance with AFI 36-2201.
 2.3. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the proficiency to
 be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the task/knowledge and the career
 knowledge provided by the correspondence course. See the Air University Catalog maintained at
 http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/ for current CDC listings.
 2.4. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the tasks, knowledge, and proficiency levels
 referenced in paragraph 2. Columns are marked with a proficiency code to indicate subjects taught. An X
 in the proficiency code column indicates a lack of student man years and instructor resources. Trainees
 without prerequisites specified in Education and Training Course Announcement (ETCA) cannot be
 expected to meet proficiency levels indicated.
 2.5. Becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job training when placed in AF Form 623,
 Individual Training Record folder and used according to AFI 36-2201.
 2.6. Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion System
 (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKT) are developed at the USAF Occupational Measurement
 Squadron by senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their career fields. The tests sample
 knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development team members as most appropriate
 for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon study references listed in the WAPS catalog.
 Individual responsibilities are listed in chapter 1 of AFI 36-2605, Air Force Military Personnel Testing
 System. WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard or Air Reserve Forces.
 3. Recommendations. Comments and recommendations are invited concerning the quality of AETC
 training. A Customer Service Information Line (CSIL) has been installed for the supervisors'
 convenience. For a quick response to concerns, call our CSIL at DSN 597-4566, fax us at DSN
 597-3790, or e-mail us at 81trg-tget@keesler.af.mil. Reference this STS and identify the specific area of
 concern (paragraph, training standard element, etc).


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE

OFFICIAL                                            WILLIAM T. LORD, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                                    Chief of Warfighting Integration and
                                                    Chief Information Officer



 Attachments:
 1. IT Fundamentals Course Training Standard (CTS)
 2. Specialty Training Standard (STS) 3D1X6



                                                       26
                                                                                                                        IT Fundamentals
                                                                                                                         PROFICIENCY
                                                                                                                            CODE


                                                            PREFACE

NOTE 1: Dashed items in this CTS are not part of the original CTS created at the March 2009 IT
Fundamentals conference however, they are the specific objectives taught in the IT Fundamentals course
designed to meet the CTS requirements.
NOTE 2: Unless otherwise stated, students may be allowed two assists from the instructor and still
successfully achieve the proper level of proficiency. An instructor assist is anytime an instructor must
intercede to provide guidance to a student which leads to a satisfactory completion of the objective or to
prevent the student from continuing in a manner that will lead to an unsatisfactory conclusion, safety
violation, or damage to equipment.
NOTE 3: All 3-level tasks will be trained if a wartime surge is ordered.

                                                   Proficiency Code Key
                            Scale
                            Value
                                            Definition: The individual
                                  1         Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most
                                            of the task. (extremely limited)
                                  2         Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (partially
Task Performance                            proficient)
Levels                            3         Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work.
                                            (competent)
                                  4         Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others
                                            how to do the task. (highly proficient)
                                  a         Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (nomenclature)

                                  b         Can determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task. (procedures)
*Task Knowledge
Levels                            c         Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is
                                            needed. (operating principles)
                                  d         Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (advanced
                                            theory)
                                  A         Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (facts)

                                  B         Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the
**Subject Knowledge                         subject. (principles)
Levels                            C         Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject.
                                            (analysis)
                                  D         Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject.
                                            (evaluation)
                                                          Explanations
*   A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a
    specific task. (Example: b and 1b)
** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific
   task, or for a subject common to several tasks. This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency
   training is provided in the course or CDC.
X This mark is used alone in course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.
NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during wartime.




                                                                 27                                                             Attachment 1
                                                                                      IT Fundamentals
                                                                                      PROFICIENCY
                                                                                         CODE

1. ELECTRONICS SUPPORT SUBJECTS
    1.1 Safety                                                                            B
    1.2 First Aid                                                                         A
    1.3 Personal and Family Countermeasures (CM                                           A
2. DIGITAL NUMBERING SYSTEMS (Internal Data Representation)
    2.1 Conversions
    2.1.1 Binary                                                                          B
    2.1.2 Hexadecimal                                                                     B
    2.1.3 Binary Coded Decimal                                                            A
    2.2 Calculate Hexadecimal Numbers                                                     X
3. BASIC COMPUTER FUNDAMENTALS
    3.1 Communications/Network Protocols
    3.1.1 Connection Oriented Communication                                               A
    3.1.2 Connectionless Oriented Communication                                           A
   3.1.3 International Standards Organization (ISO) Open Systems Interconnect (OSI)       A
Model
   3.1.4 TCP/IP                                                                           A
    3.1.5 Department of Defense (DoD) Standards Protocol                                  A
    3.1.6 IPV4/IPV6                                                                       A
    3.1.7 Ports (IP)                                                                      A
    3.2 Network Theory/Components
    3.2.1 Components
    3.2.1.1 Component Principles                                                          B
    3.2.1.2 Central Processing Unit (CPU)                                                 A
    3.2.1.3 Computer memory                                                               A
    3.2.1.4 Input/output (I/O) Devices                                                    A
    3.2.1.5 Storage Devices                                                               A
    3.2.1.6 Peripherals (Printers, FAX, Scanners, etc)                                    A
    3.2.2 Network Types
    3.2.2.1 Wired ( LAN, WAN, MAN)                                                        A
    3.2.2.2 Wireless                                                                      A
    3.2.2.3 Virtual Private Network (VPN)                                                 A
    3.2.2.4 Video Teleconference                                                          A
    3.2.2.5 Topologies (Star, Ring, Bus, Hybrid, etc)                                     A
    3.3 Data Terminal Equipment/Data Communications Equipment (DTE/DCE)
    3.3.1 Modems                                                                          A
    3.3.2 Converters                                                                      A
    3.3.3 Gateways                                                                        A
    3.3.4 Multiplexing
    3.3.4.1 Wave Division Multiplexing                                                    A
    3.3.4.2 Time Division Multiplexing                                                    A



                                                   28                                      Attachment 1
                                                                                             IT Fundamentals
                                                                                             PROFICIENCY
                                                                                                CODE

    3.3.4.3 Switches                                                                             A
    3.3.4.4 Multiplexers                                                                         A
    3.3.4.5 Bridges/Routers                                                                      A
    3.3.4.6 Encryption/COMSEC Devices (Data and Voice)                                           A
    3.3.4.7 Communications Mediums                                                               A
    3.4 Software
    3.4.1 Operating Systems (UNIX, Windows, LINUX, etc.)                                         A
    3.4.2 Applications (Word, Excel, Power Point, Share Point, etc.)                             A
    3.4.3 Infectious and Malicious Software                                                      A
4. CRYPTOLOGY (Bound & Unbound)
     4.1 Bulk Encryption                                                                         A
     4.2 Information Encryption Techniques                                                       A
     4.3 Separation Requirements                                                                 A
5. NETWORK FAULT ISOLATION TECHNIQUES
    5.1 Network Error Detection                                                                 1a
    5.2 Network Error Correction                                                                1a
    5.3 Network Flow Control                                                                    1a
    5.4 Transmission Impairments                                                                1a
    5.5 Network Management Concepts and Responsibilities                                         B
6. CYBER SECURITY
    6.1 Cyber Vulnerabilities                                                                    A
    6.2 Vulnerability Preventative Measures                                                      A
    6.3 Identity Management                                                                      A
    6.4 Wireless Network Security                                                                A
7. COMMUNICATIONS AND INFORMATION PROFESSIONALS
    7.1 Organizations                                                                            A
    7.2 Communications Competencies                                                              A
    7.3 Expeditionary Communications                                                             X
8. OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT (ORM) TR: AFIs 90-901, 91-301, 91-302;
AFOSH STDs 91-50, 91-64, 91-501
    8.1 ORM                                                                                      A
9. PUBLICATIONS AND DIRECTIVES TR: AFINDs 2, 5, 8; AFIs 33-Series; AFMAN 37-
139
    9.1 Department of Defense (DoD)                                                              X
    9.2 Air Force                                                                                X
    9.3 Commercial/Vendor publications                                                           X
    9.4 DISA Publications                                                                        X
    9.5 Technical Orders (TO)                                                                    A
    9.6 Standard Installation Practices Technical Order (SIPTO)                                  A
    9.7 Enterprise Information Architecture (EIA)/ Telecommunications Industry Association       A
(TIA)
    9.8 Military Standard (MIL STD)                                                              X



                                                   29                                             Attachment 1
                                                                                           IT Fundamentals
                                                                                           PROFICIENCY
                                                                                              CODE

10. LEGAL/ETHICS TR: USC TITLE 10, 18 and 50; Joint Information Doctrine (Joint
Pub 3-13); AF Information Operations Doctrine 2-5; Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act (HIPAA)
    10.1 US Codes (e.g. Titles 10, 15, 18, 32, 50) (e.g. Constitutional Authority, legal       A
aspects of rules of engagement, homeland defense, Posse Comitatus, US Charter Paradigm,
Schmidt Analysis)
    10.2 Rules of Engagement (ROE)
    10.2.1 Policy                                                                              A
    10.2.2 Security Tools                                                                      A
    10.2.3 Cyber Management Ethics                                                             A
    10.2.4 System Monitoring                                                                   A
    10.3 Special Data Protection (i.e. sensitive personnel information)                        A
11. C4I SECURITY TR: ACP 122; AFDIR 33-303; AFIs 33-110, 33-129, 33-206, 33-219,
33-332; AFKAG-1&2; AFMAN 33-326; AFSSI 5021; DISAC 310-90-1; DOD 5200.1-R
    11.1 Operations Security (OPSEC) TR: AFI 10-1101; AFPD 10-11
    11.1.1 Definition                                                                          X
    11.1.2 Relationship of OPSEC to other security programs                                    X
    11.1.3 Vulnerabilities                                                                     X
    11.1.4 Critical Information                                                                X
    11.2 Information Security TR: AFI 31-401; AFPD 31-4, 33-2
    11.2.1 Information safeguards
    11.2.1.1 Unclassified
    11.2.1.1.1 Privacy Act (PA)                                                                A
    11.2.1.1.2 For Official Use Only (FOUO) TR: AFSSI 5009                                     A
    11.2.1.1.3 Sensitive Unclassified                                                          A
    11.2.1.2 Classified                                                                        A
    11.3 Communications Security (COMSEC) TR: AFIs 33-211, 33-212; AFPD 33-2; AFI
31-401; AFPD 31-4
    11.3.1 Definition                                                                          A
    11.3.2 Vulnerabilities                                                                     A
    11.3.3 Safeguarding Information                                                            A
    11.4 Emission Security (EMSEC) TR: AFI 33-203; AFPD 33-2
    11.4.1 Definition                                                                          A
    11.4.2 Notifications                                                                       A
    11.4.3 Vulnerabilities                                                                     A
    11.4.4 Protected Distribution System (PDS)                                                 A
    11.5 Computer Security (COMPUSEC) TR: AFIs 33-202, 33-207; AFPD 33-2
    11.5.1 Definition                                                                          A
    11.5.2 Vulnerabilities                                                                     A
    11.6 Physical Security TR: AFI 31-101; AFPD 31-1
    11.6.1 Definition                                                                          A
    11.6.2 Secure Area Access Management                                                       X
    11.6.3 Facility Security Requirements                                                      X



                                                   30                                           Attachment 1
                                                                                       IT Fundamentals
                                                                                       PROFICIENCY
                                                                                          CODE

    11.6.4 Classified Material Control
    11.6.4.1 Storage                                                                       A
    11.6.4.2 Transport                                                                     A
    11.6.4.3 Handling                                                                      A
    11.6.4.4 Destruction                                                                   X
    11.6.4.5 Classified Waste                                                              X
    11.7 Information Assurance TR: AFI 33-204
    11.7.1 Definition                                                                      A
    11.7.2 Threats and Vulnerabilities                                                     A
    11.7.3 Protective Measures                                                             A
    11.8 Information Conditions (INFOCON)                                                  A
12. AIR AND SPACE EXPEDITIONARY FORCE (AEF)
    12.1 Equipment (e.g. LOGDET)                                                           X
    12.2 Personnel (e.g. MANFOR)                                                           X
13. ENTERPRISE SYSTEMS TR: AFI 13 Series
    13.1 Defense Information Systems Network (DISN)                                        A
    13.2 Defense Switched Network (DSN)                                                    A
     13.3 Non-secure Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNET) TR: DISACs 370-P120-       A
3, 310-P70-73, 310-P70-74, 310-P70-75
     13.4 Secure Networks
    13.4.1 Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET)                               A
    13.4.2 Defense Red Switch Network (DRSN)                                               A
14. ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
    14.1 Communication Squadron                                                            X
    14.2 Combat Communications Squadrons                                                   X
    14.3 Expeditionary Communications Squadron                                             X
    14.4 Air Force Network Operations (AFNETOPS)                                           X
    14.5 Air Force Network Operations Center (AFNOC)                                       X
    14.6 Integrated Network Operations Security Center (INOSC)                             X
    14.7 Enterprise Service Unit (ESU)                                                     X
    14.8 Area Processing Center (APC)                                                      X
    14.9 Enterprise Service Desk (ESD)                                                     X
15. CYBER OPERATIONS
    15.1 Structure                                                                         A
    15.2 Missions
    15.2.1 Offensive                                                                       A
    15.2.2 Defensive                                                                       A
    15.2.3 Exploitation                                                                    A
    15.2.4 Other (e.g. Influence Operations (IFO), Electronic Warfare (EW))                A
    15.3 Network Warfare Fundamentals
    15.3.1 Control Systems (e.g. Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA)          A



                                                  31                                        Attachment 1
                                                                                              IT Fundamentals
                                                                                              PROFICIENCY
                                                                                                 CODE

networks)
    15.3.2 Tactical Data Link (TADL) networks                                                     A
    15.3.3 Network Exploitation Capabilities                                                      A
    15.4 Cyber Capabilities
    15.4.1 Affects on adversary decision makers                                                   A
    15.4.2 Role of cyber operations in achieving military and national goals and objectives       A
    15.4.3 Information Superiority                                                                X
    15.4.4 Role of Air Force Network Operations Center (AFNOC)                                    X
    15.4.5 Role of Integrated-Network Operations and Security Centers (I-NOSCs)                   X
    15.4.6 Role of Network Control Center (NCC)                                                   X
    15.4.7 Role of an Air and Space Operations Center (AOC)                                       X
    15.4.8 Ops Defensive Measures                                                                 A
    15.4.9 Ops Capabilities                                                                       A
16. DIGITAL LOGIC CIRCUITS
    16.1 Theory
    16.1.1 Gates                                                                                  B
    16.1.2 Flip Flops                                                                             B
    16.2. Digital to Analog (DA) and Analog to Digital (AD) Converter Theory                      B
    16.3 Metric Notation
    16.3.1 Calculate Powers of Ten                                                                B

    16.3.2 Electrical Prefixes                                                                    B
17. USE TEST EQUIPMENT
    17.1 Analog Multimeter                                                                        B
    17.2 Use Digital Multimeter                                                                  2b
    17.3 Use Oscilloscope                                                                        2b
    17.4 Use Signal/Function Generator                                                           2b
    17.5 Use Line Tester                                                                          X
    17.6 Electrostatic Discharge (ESD) Control                                                    A
18. BASIC COMMUNICATIONS THEORY
    18.1 Fiber Optics                                                                             A
    18.2 Transmission Lines                                                                       B
    18.3 Data Bus                                                                                 B
    18.4 Antennas                                                                                 B
    18.5 Waveguides                                                                               A
    18.6 Transmitters
    18.6.1 Frequency Modulation                                                                   B
    18.6.2 Amplitude Modulation                                                                   B
    18.7 Receivers
    18.7.1 Frequency Modulation                                                                   B
    18.7.2 Amplitude Modulation                                                                   B
    18.8 Digital Communications



                                                   32                                              Attachment 1
                                                       IT Fundamentals
                                                       PROFICIENCY
                                                          CODE

   18.8.1 Synchronous                                      A
   18.8.2 Isochronous                                      A
   18.8.3 Asynchronous                                     A
   18.8.4 Signal Rate                                      A
   18.8.5 Bit Count Integrity                              A
   18.8.6 Signal Formats                                   A
   18.9 Modulation Techniques
   18.9.1 Amplitude Modulation (AM)                        B
   18.9.2 Frequency Modulation (FM)                        B
   18.9.3 Phase Modulation                                 B
   18.9.4 DAMA                                             B
   18.9.5 Frequency Hopping                                A
   18.9.6 Time – Division (CDMA and GSM)                   A
   18.10 Electromagnetic Effects (EMP/EMI)                 B
   18.11 AM Receiver Signals
   18.11.1 Measure Radio Frequency (RF)                   1a
   18.11.2 Measure Intermediate Frequency (IF)            1a
   18.11.3 Monitor Audio Frequency (AF)                   1a
   18.11.4 Measure Local Oscillator (LO) Output           1a
19. TYPES OF WIRING/CABLING
   19.1 Assemble Solderless Connectors
   19.1.1 Crimped Connection                              2b
   19.1.2 Coaxial Connector                               2b
   19.1.3 Multipin Connector                              2b
20. BASIC CIRCUITS
   20.1 Direct Current (DC)
   20.1.1 Theory                                           B
   20.1.2 Calculations                                     B
   20.2 Alternating Current (AC)
   20.2.1 Theory                                           B
   20.2.2 Calculations                                     B
21. BASIC CIRCUIT COMPONENTS
   21.1 Resistors
   21.1.1 Theory                                           B
   21.1.2 Color Code                                       B
   21.1.3 Troubleshoot                                    2b
   21.2 Inductors
   21.2.1 Theory                                           B
   21.2.2 Troubleshoot                                    2b
   21.3 Capacitors
   21.3.1 Theory                                           B



                                                  33        Attachment 1
                                                               IT Fundamentals
                                                               PROFICIENCY
                                                                  CODE

   21.3.2 Troubleshoot                                            2b
   21.4 Resistive-Capacitive-Inductive (RCL) Circuits Theory
   21.4.1 Basic                                                    A
   21.4.2 Resonant                                                 A
   21.4.3 Frequency Sensitive Filter                               A
22. POWER SUPPLY CIRCUITS
   22.1 Theory
   22.1.1 Rectifiers                                               B
   22.1.2 Filters                                                  B
   22.1.3 Voltage Regulators                                       B
   22.2 Troubleshoot Power Supply                                 2b
23. ELECTROMAGNETIC DEVICES
   23.1 Transformers
   23.1.1 Theory                                                   B
   23.1.2 Troubleshoot                                            2b
   23.2 Relays and Solenoids
   23.2.1 Theory                                                   A
   23.2.2 Troubleshoot                                             -
24. SOLID STATE DEVICES
   24.1 Diodes
   24.1.1 Theory                                                   B
   24.1.2 Troubleshoot                                            2b
   24.2 Bipolar Junction Transistors
   24.2.1 Theory                                                   B
   24.2.2 Troubleshoot                                            2b
   24.3 Special Purpose Device Theory
   24.3.1 Zener Diode                                              B
   24.3.2 Light Emitting Diode (LED)                               A
   24.3.3 Liquid Crystal Display (LCD)                             A
   24.3.4 Integrated Circuits (IC)                                 A
   24.3.5 Field Effect Transistor (FET)                            A
   24.3.6 Operational Amplifiers                                   -
25. TRANSISTOR AMPLIFIER CIRCUITS
   25.1 Theory                                                     B
   25.2 Stabilization                                              A
   25.3 Coupling                                                   A
26. WAVE GENERATING CIRCUITS
   26.1 Theory
   26.1.1 Oscillators                                              A
   26.1.2 Multivibrators                                           A
   26.1.3 Waveshaping Circuits                                     A



                                                 34                 Attachment 1
                                                                                                    STS 3D1X6


                                                  PREFACE

NOTE 1: Users are responsible for annotating technical references to identify current references pending
STS revision. Locate current Air Force publications at:

      DoD Issuances and OSD Administrative Instructions at http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/
      Air Force publications at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
      AFSSIs at https://private.afca.af.mil/ip/
      DISA Circulars and Instructions at http://www.disa.mil/main/about/publications.html
      Technical Orders (TO) at https://www.my.af.mil/etims/ETIMS/index.jsp
      Online Reference Ware and CBTs: https://www.my.af.mil/faf/FAF/fafHome.jsp (Under IT E-
      Learning)

NOTE 2: Knowledge and/or performance tasks are defined in the AFJQS. AFJQS items set the standard
for qualification and certification and are mandatory for use in conjunction with this STS when applicable
to the duty position.

NOTE 3: AFQTP 3DXXX-232A, Communications and Information Work Center Supervisor's Handbook is
mandatory for upgrade to the 7-skill level in all 3DXXX career fields.

NOTE 4: All objectives are trained during wartime.

NOTE 5: Commanders, supervisors and trainers will use TBA to track and manage training for all 3DXXX
personnel.

NOTE 6: When an AFJQS is loaded into TBA, AFJQS task numbering will vary from the STS. The
numbering scheme is defined by your work center specific master training plan.

NOTE 7: Third person certification is not required for all Cyber Support Specialist personnel. However,
members (to include civilians and contractors) assigned to crew positions are still required position
certification in accordance with AFI 33-115 Volume 1.

NOTE 8: Initial skills course climbing training objectives will be satisfied using a 40’ tower.

NOTE 9: Initial skills course objectives will be satisfied using the local maintenance computer.

NOTE 10: MSgts in the 3DXXX AFSCs no longer require an Individual Training Plan (ITP) with the
following exceptions: personnel in upgrade training status. Unit Commanders can require MSgt's with
UTC tasks to have an ITP.




                                                      35                                           Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                     STS 3D1X6



                                                        PROFICIENCY CODE KEY
-             SCALE     DEFINITION: The individual
              VALUE
                1       Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (EXTREMELY LIMITED)
Performance
   Levels




                2       Can do most parts of the task. Needs help only on hardest parts. (PARTIALLY PROFICIENT)
    Task




                3       Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (COMPETENT)
                4       Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task. (HIGHLY PROFICIENT)
                a       Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (NOMENCLATURE)
Knowledge
  Levels




                b       Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (PROCEDURES)
  *Task




                c       Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed. (OPERATING PRINCIPLES)
                d       Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (ADVANCED THEORY)
                A       Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (FACTS)
Knowledge
 **Subject

   Levels




                B       Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (PRINCIPLES)
                C       Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (ANALYSIS)
                D       Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (EVALUATION)
                                                                   Explanations
*      A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific
       task. (Example: b and 1b)
**     A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for
       a subject common to several tasks. This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in
       the course or CDC.
X      This mark is used alone in course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.
NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during wartime.
(-)    When this code is used in the Core Task Column it indicates that the qualification is a local determination.
(5) When this code is used in the Core Task Column it indicates the CFM has mandated this task as a core 5-level requirement. The
    training to satisfy this requirement is either provided through OJT, CBTs, CDCs, or a combination.
(7) When this code is used in the Core Task Column it indicates the CFM has mandated this task as a core 7-level requirement. The
    training to satisfy this requirement is either provided through OJT, CBTs, CDCs, or a combination.
(5*) When this code is used in the Core Task Column it indicates the CFM has selected this task as core 5-level tasks if loaded to the unit’s
     WTA. This code indicates that training to satisfy this requirement is normally provided through OJT.
(7*) When this code is used in the Core Task Column it indicates the CFM has selected this task as core 7-level tasks if loaded to the unit’s
     WTA. This code indicates that training to satisfy this requirement is normally provided through OJT.




                                                                        36                                                          Attachment 2
                                                                                                                 STS 3D1X6




                                     THIS BLOCK IS FOR IDENTIFICATION PURPOSES ONLY

                                                Personal Data – Privacy Act of 1974

PRINTED NAME OF TRAINEE (Last, First, Middle Initial)                      INITIALS (Written)   LAST 4 OF SSAN



                        PRINTED NAME OF TRAINER AND CERTIFYING OFFICIAL AND WRITTEN INITIALS


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I

N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I




                                                               37                                            Attachment 2
                                                                                                           STS 3D1X6




                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                              2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                              WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                                LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                               TASKS
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                          Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
1. AIRFIELD SYSTEMS
CAREER FIELD
TR: AFECD, AFH 33-337;
AFIs 10-401, 33-115 Vol 1,
2 & 3; AFMAN 36-2101;
3D1X6 CFETP, T.O. 00-
33A-1001-WA1

1.1. Structure                   -                                                           -         -         -         -
1.2. Progression within Air
Force Specialty Code             -                                                           -         -         -         -
3D1X6
1.3. Read CFETP 3D1X6,
                                 5                                                           -         -         -         -
Part I
1.4. Air Force Specialty
Code 3D1X6
1.4.1. Explain duties of
                                 5                                                          A         A          -         -
AFSC
1.4.2. Explain
                                 5                                                          A         A          -         -
responsibilities of AFSC
1.4.3. AFSC core
                                 -                                                           -        A          -         -
competencies
1.4.4. Qualifications            -                                                           -         -         -         -

1.4.5. Customer relations        5                                                           -         -         -         -
1.4.6. Associated career
                                 5                                                          A         A          -         -
family AFSCs
2.
SAFETY/OPERATIONAL
RISK MANAGEMENT
(ORM)
TR: AFIs 90-901, 91-301,
91-302; AFOSH STDs
91-50, 91-64, 91-501
2.1. ORM                         -                                                           -        A          -         -
2.2. AFOSH Standards for
                                 5                                                          A         A          -         -
AFSC
2.3. Hazards of the AFSC         5                                                          A         A          -         -
2.4. Practice safety
precautions:
2.4.1. Maintenance
                                 5                                                          2b         -         -         -
actions.
2.4.2. Energized
                                 5                                                          2b         -         -         -
equipment.
2.4.3. Around High
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
Voltage equipment
2.4.4. In Radio Frequency
(RF) hazard environments.
TR: AFOSH Std 48-9,
                                 -                                                           -        A          -         -
chap 2; TO 31Z-10-4; and
command and local
directives



                                                         38                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                           STS 3D1X6


                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                              2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                              WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                                LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                               TASKS
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                          Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
2.4.5. Working with
compressed gas cylinders.
TR: AFOSH Std 91-50,
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
chap 2.15.-2.15.3; TO
42B5-1-2; and command
and local directives
2.4.6. When handling
hazardous materials. TR:
AFOSH Std 91-50, paras           5                                                           -         -         -         -
2.13 and 2.14; AFOSH Std
91-68; TO 00-25-213
2.5. Safety and personal
protective equipment. TR:
AFOSH Std 91-50, ch 2;
AFOSH Std 91-66; TO 00-
25-245, and command and
local directives
2.5.1. Use                       -                                                           -         -         -         -

2.5.2. Maintain                  -                                                           -         -         -         -

2.5.3. Inspect                   -                                                           -         -         -         -
2.6. Perform general
                                 5                                                           -         -         -         -
housekeeping
2.7. Fire protection
procedures. TR: AFOSH
Std 91-10, chap 2; AFOSH
Std 91-66, chap 1.7-
1.7.2.4; and command and
local directives
2.7.1. Describe classes of
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
extinguishers
2.7.2. Describe fire
protection procedures for        -                                                           -         -         -         -
electronic equipment
2.7.3. Describe fire
protection procedures for
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
critical communications
facilities
2.8. Work center safety
program. TR: AFI 91-202,
chaps 1, 2.2. thru 2.3, and
4; AFI 91-301, sec B,
paras 7-7.4, 12, 13, sec C,
and attachments; AFQTP
3DXXX-232A; command
and local directives
2.8.1. Manage work
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
center program
2.8.2. Conduct Job Safety
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
Analysis
2.8.3. Document AF Form
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
55
2.8.4. Conduct
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
inspections




                                                         39                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                           STS 3D1X6


                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                              2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                              WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                                LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                               TASKS
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                          Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
3. PUBLICATIONS AND
DIRECTIVES
TR: AFI 33-Series; AF
Records Distribution
System; http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil/
3.1 Department of
                                 -                                                           -        A          -         -
Defense (DOD) / Joint
3.2. Air Force                   -                                                           -        A          -         -
3.3. Allied
Communications                   -                                                           -        A          -         -
Publications (ACP)
3.4. Commercial/vendor
                                 -                                                           -        A          -         -
publications
3.5. DISA Publications           -                                                           -        A          -         -
3.6. Technical Orders
(TO)
3.6.1. Describe Technical
Order System. TR: AFI
                                 5                                                          A         A          -         -
63-101; TO 00-5-1-WA-1;
TO 00-5-18-WA-1
3.6.2. Locate TO numbers
and titles in each TO index
TR: TO 00-5-1-WA-1; TO
00-5-18-WA-1;                    -                                                           -         -         -         -
https://www.my.af.mil/etim
s/ETIMS/index.jsp;
Applicable TO index
3.6.3. Identify Time
Compliance Technical
Orders (TCTO) procedures
TR: AFCSM 21-568 (V2)
                                 -                                                          A          -         -         -
https://www.my.af.mil/etim
s/ETIMS/index.jsp; AFI 33-
150; TO 00-5-15-WA-1;
and applicable TCTOs
3.6.4. Implement Time
Compliance Technical
Orders (TCTO) procedures
and document completion
TR: AFCSM 21-568 (V2)            5                                                           -         -         -         -
https://www.my.af.mil/etim
s/ETIMS/index.jsp; AFI 33-
150; TO 00-5-15-WA-1;
and applicable TCTOs
3.6.5. Prepare local work
cards, checklists and job
guides
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
TR: TO 00-5-1-WA-1; and
command and local
directives
3.7. Standard Installation
Practices Technical Order        -                                                           -        A          -         -
(SIPTO)




                                                         40                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                            STS 3D1X6


                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                   3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                               2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                   &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                               WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                                 LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                                TASKS
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                           Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
3.8. Enterprise Information
Architecture (EIA)/
                                  -                                                           -        A          -         -
Telecommunications
Industry Association (TIA)
3.9. Military Standard (MIL
                                  -                                                           -        A          -         -
STD)
3.10. Use publications
                                  5                                                          2b         -         -         -
when performing work
4. LEGAL/ETHICS
TR: AFDD 2-5, Health
Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act
(HIPAA),
http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine
/new_pubs/jp3_13.pdf.
Information Operations,
USC TITLE 10, 18 and 50
4.1. Identify and explain
US Codes (e.g. Titles 10,
15, 18, 32, 50) (e.g.
Constitutional Authority,
legal aspects of rules of         -                                                           -        A          -         -
engagement, homeland
defense, Posse Comitatus,
US Charter Paradigm,
Schmidt Analysis)
4.2. Rules of Engagement
(ROE)
4.2.1. Policy                     -                                                           -         -         -         -

4.2.2. Security tools             -                                                           -         -         -         -
4.2.3. Network
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
Management Components
4.2.4. System Monitoring          -                                                           -         -         -         -
4.3. Special Data
Protection (E.G. Sensitive        -                                                           -         -         -         -
Personnel Information)
5. C4I SECURITY
TR: ACP 122; AFIs
33-129, 33-138, 33-219,
33-332; AFKAG-1&2;
AFMAN 33-326; DOD
5200.1-R
5.1. Operations Security
(OPSEC) TR: AFI 10-
701; AFPD 10-7
5.1.1. Definition                 -                                                           -        A          -         -

5.1.2. Background                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
5.1.3. Relationship of
OPSEC to other security           -                                                           -        B          -         -
programs
5.1.4. Vulnerabilities            -                                                           -         -         -         -

5.1.5. Critical information       -                                                           -         -         -         -



                                                          41                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                            STS 3D1X6


                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                   3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                               2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                   &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                               WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                                 LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                                TASKS
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                           Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
5.2. Information Security
TR: AFI 31-401; AFPD 31-
4, 33-2
5.2.1. Definition                 -                                                           -        A          -         -
5.2.2. Classification
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
process
5.2.3. Declassification
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
process
5.2.4. Information
safeguards
5.2.4.1. Privacy Act (PA)         -                                                           -        A          -         -
5.2.4.2. For Official Use
                                  -                                                           -        A          -         -
Only (FOUO)
5.2.4.3. Sensitive
                                  -                                                           -        A          -         -
Unclassified
5.2.4.4. Classified               -                                                           -        A          -         -
5.3. Communications
Security (COMSEC) TR:
AFIs 31-401, 33-201(Vols
2/ 3); AFPDs 31-4, 33-2
5.3.1. Definition                 5                                                           -        A          -         -

5.3.2. Vulnerabilities            5                                                           -        B          -         -
5.3.3. Safeguarding
                                  5                                                           -        B          -         -
information
5.3.4. Identify insecurities      5                                                           -        B          -         -

5.3.5. Report insecurities        5                                                           -        A          -         -
5.3.6. Protect COMSEC
material
TR: AFI 33-201(V2), sec E,
paras 20.1 thru 20.6.1 and
local COMSEC directives
5.3.6.1. Store COMSEC
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
material equipment
5.3.6.2. Store Controlled
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
Cryptographic equipment
5.3.7. Inventory COMSEC
documents and/or
equipment
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
TR: AFI 33-201(V2), sec F,
paras 21.1 thru 21.14 and
local COMSEC directives
5.3.8. Page check
COMSEC documents
TR: AFI 33-201(V2), sec F,        -                                                           -         -         -         -
paras 22.1 thru 22.3.4 and
local COMSEC directives
5.3.9. Post amendments
to COMSEC documents
TR: AFI 33-201(V2), sec F,        -                                                           -         -         -         -
paras 23.1 thru 23.2 and
local COMSEC directives



                                                          42                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                            STS 3D1X6


                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                   3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                               2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                   &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                               WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                                 LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                                TASKS
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                           Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
5.3.10. Explain
procedures for destroying
cryptographic equipment
and materials                     -                                                           -         -         -         -
TR: AFI 33-201(V2), sec
G, paras 27 thru 32 and
local directives
5.3.11. Explain how to
report physical, personnel,
and cryptographic security
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
violations
TR: AFI 33-201(V2/V3),
and local directives
5.3.12. Protect Major
Command/Field Operating
Agency (MAJCOM/FOA)
Mission Critical Information
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
TR: AFI 10-701; AFPD 10-
7; MAJCOM/FOA
directives; and local
directives
5.4. Emission Security
(EMSEC) TR: AFPD 33-2
and AFSSI 7700
5.4.1. Definition                 -                                                           -        A          -         -

5.4.2. Notifications              -                                                           -        B          -         -

5.4.3. Vulnerabilities            -                                                           -        B          -         -
5.4.4. Protected
                                  -                                                           -        B          -         -
Distribution System (PDS)
5.5. Computer Security
(COMPUSEC) TR: AFIs
33-200, 33-207; AFPD 33-
2; AFSSI 8502
5.5.1. Definition                 5                                                           -        A          -         -

5.5.2. Vulnerabilities            5                                                           -        B          -         -
5.5.3. Processing
                                  5                                                           -        B          -         -
classified information
5.5.4. Identify insecurities      5                                                           -        B          -         -

5.5.5. Report insecurities        5                                                           -        A          -         -
5.6. Physical Security TR:
AFI 31-101; AFPD 31-1
5.6.1. Definition                 5                                                           -        A          -         -
5.6.2. Secure area access
                                  7                                                           -        B          -         -
management
5.6.3. Facility security
                                  5                                                           -        B          -         -
requirements
5.6.4. Identify violations
                                  5                                                           -         -         -         -
procedures
5.6.5. Report violations
                                  5                                                           -         -         -         -
procedures



                                                          43                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                          STS 3D1X6


                                                                                          4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                             2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                 &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                            3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                             WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                               LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                              TASKS
                                       START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                         Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                       DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
5.6.6. Classified material
control
5.6.6.1. Storage                -                                                           -        B          -         -

5.6.6.2. Transport              -                                                           -        B          -         -

5.6.6.3. Handling               -                                                           -        B          -         -

5.6.6.4. Destruction            -                                                           -        B          -         -

5.6.6.5. Classified waste       -                                                           -        B          -         -

5.6.6.6. Marking                -                                                           -        B          -         -
5.7. Information
Assurance TR: AFI 33-
200 and 33-210
5.7.1. Definition               -                                                           -        A          -         -
5.7.2. Certification and
                                -                                                           -        A          -         -
accreditation process
5.8. Information
Conditions (INFOCON)            5                                                           -        B          -         -
TR; AFI 10-710
6. IT REQUIREMENTS
TR: AFI 33-401 and 33-
210
6.1. Lifecycle                  -                                                           -        A          -         -

6.2. Procurement                -                                                           -        A          -         -
6.3. Integrated Technical
                                -                                                           -        A          -         -
Reference Model (ITRM)
7. MANAGEMENT OF
PROCESSES
TR: AFIs 33-104, 33-150,
36-2201, 63-124, 63-501,
63-1101, 64-102; AFPD
36-5, 64-1; Federal
Acquisition Regulation
(FAR) Part 39; OMB
Circular A-130; TO 00-
33A-1001-WA-1 and 00-
33D-3003-WA-1.
7.1. Management Policies
7.1.1. Equipment
                                -                                                           -         -         -         -
Readiness
7.1.2. Staffing and
                                -                                                           -         -         -         -
Utilization
7.1.3. Training
7.1.3.1. Document
                                5                                                           -         -         -         -
Training




                                                        44                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                            STS 3D1X6


                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                   3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                               2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                   &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                               WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                                 LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                                TASKS
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                           Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
7.1.3.2. Evaluate newly
assigned personnel and
identify individual training
requirements
                                  5                                                           -         -         -         -
TR: AFIs 33-150, 36-
2201; AFQTP 3DXXX-
232A; Applicable CFETP;
Unit Training Manual
7.1.3.3. Conduct On-the-
Job Training (OJT)
TR: AFI 36-2201; AFQTP            5                                                           -         -         -         -
3DXXX-232A; and local
directives
7.1.3.4. Evaluate quality
of OJT and provide trainee
feedback                          5                                                           -         -         -         -
TR: AFI 36-2201; AFQTP
3DXXX-232A
7.1.3.5. Develop Master
                                  7                                                           -         -         -         -
Training Plan
7.1.4. Quality Assurance
(QA)
7.1.4.1. Perform self
                                  5                                                           -         -         -         -
inspection
7.1.4.2. Evaluate
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
Equipment
7.1.4.3. Document results         5                                                           -         -         -         -
7.1.5. Automated
Information Systems (AIS)
7.1.5.1. Integrated
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
Maintenance Data System
7.1.5.2. Remedy                   -                                                           -         -         -         -
7.1.5.3. Asset Inventory
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
Management System
7.1.5.4. Training Business
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
Area
7.1.6. Communications
Focal Point                       -                                                           -         -         -         -
TR: AFJQS 3D1XX-201F
7.1.7. Logistics Support
7.1.7.1. Submit Price
Challenges
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
TR: AFMAN 23-110,(Vol
7), part 4
7.1.7.2. Report Item and
Packaging Discrepancies           -                                                           -         -         -         -
TR: AFJMAN 23-215




                                                          45                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                            STS 3D1X6


                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                   3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                               2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                   &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                               WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                                 LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                                TASKS
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                           Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
7.1.7.3. Report Uniform
Source, Maintenance and
Recoverability Code and
Air Force Expendability,
Recoverability,
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
Reparability Category
Code Discrepancies
TR: AFJI 21-106; TOs 00-
20-3, chap 1; 00-25-195-
WA-1
7.1.7.4. Submit Deficiency
Reports
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
TR: TO 00-35D-54-WA-1,
chap 3
7.1.7.5. Research and
identify part and stock
numbers
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
TR: Applicable equipment
TOs, Federal Logistics
(FEDLOG) program
7.1.7.6. Maintain supply
listings and reports (D04,
D18, M30, D23, or
equivalent Core
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
Automated Maintenance
System [CAMS])
TR: AFMAN 23-110 (V2),
part 13, chap 5
7.1.7.7. Use/maintain
bench stock.
TR: AFMAN 23-110 (V2),            -                                                           -         -         -         -
part 2, chap 25; part 13,
chap 3; and local directives
7.1.7.8. Use/maintain
supply point stock
TR: AFMAN 23-110 (V2),
part 2, chap 24, attch 24A4
and 24A5; AFMAN 23-110
(V2) part 13, chap 3; TO
00-20-3-WA-1, chap 3
7.1.7.8.1. Request and
validate adjusted stock
levels (special levels)
TR: AFMAN 23-110 (V2),            -                                                           -         -         -         -
part 2, chap 19; AFMAN
23-110 (V2) part 13, chap
3
7.1.7.9. Describe
procedures for recovering
and turning in precious
metals                            -                                                           -         -         -         -
TR: AFMAN 23-110 (V2),
part 13, chap 1.15; and
local directives




                                                          46                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                           STS 3D1X6


                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                              2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                              WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                                LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                               TASKS
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                          Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
7.1.7.10. Process and
control repair cycle assets
Due In For Maintenance
(DIFM)
TR: AFMAN 23-110 (V2),
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
part 2, chap 24; AFMAN
23-110 (V2), part 13, chap
6; TO 00-20-3-WA-1,
chaps 2 and 3, and Table
2-1
7.1.7.11. Initiate Not
Repairable This Station
(NRTS) actions
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
TR: AFI 33-150; TO 00-20-
3-WA-1, chaps 3 and 6,
and Table 1-1
7.1.7.12. Initiate contract
repair (AF Form 9)
TR: AFI 64-102; AFMAN
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
23-110 (V2), part 13, chap
8, sec 8H; Command and
local directives
7.1.7.13. Maintain
Custodian
Authorization/Custody
Receipt Listing (CA/CRL)
equipment accounts               -                                                           -         -         -         -
TR: AFMAN 23-110 (V2),
part 13, chap 8, secs 8C
and 8F; and local
directives
7.1.8. Production Work
Centers TR: AFQTP
3DXXX-232A, AFQTP
3DXXX-200D, AFI 21-103
7.1.8.1. Report Status           5                                                           -         -         -         -

7.1.8.2. Document actions        -                                                           -         -         -         -
7.1.8.3. Develop work
                                 7                                                           -         -         -         -
schedules
7.1.8.4. Report
Publication Errors and
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
Form Deficiencies
TR: AFI 33-360V2
7.1.8.5. Report Technical
Order Improvements               5                                                           -         -         -         -
TR: TO 00-5-1
7.1.9. Deployed
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
Processes
7.1.10. Modification
Management
7.1.10.1. Control
                                 7                                                           -         -         -         -
Configuration
7.1.10.2. Initiate
Modification Proposals           -                                                           -         -         -         -
TR: AFI 63-1101



                                                         47                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                            STS 3D1X6


                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                   3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                               2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                   &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                               WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                                 LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                                TASKS
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                           Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
7.1.11. Cyberspace
infrastructure planning
system TR: T.O. 00-33D-
3003-WA-1

7.1.11.1. CSIRs                   -                                                           -        A          -         -

7.1.11.2. CIPS CVC tool           -                                                           -         -         -         -
7.1.12. Administrative
Contract Management
TR: AFQTP 3DXXX-213R
7.1.12.1. Types of
Contracts
7.1.12.1.1. Time and
                                  7                                                           -         -         -         -
material
7.1.12.1.2. Firm fixed
                                  7                                                           -         -         -         -
price

7.1.12.1.3. Sole source           7                                                           -         -         -         -
7.1.12.1.4. Performance
                                  7                                                           -         -         -         -
based
7.1.12.1.5. Indefinite
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
delivery indefinite quantity
7.1.12.1.6. Blanket
Purchase Agreement (e.g.          7                                                           -         -         -         -
AFWAY, PCOE)

7.1.12.2. Responsibilities
7.1.12.2.1. Quality
Assurance Program                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
Coordinator
7.1.12.2.2. Functional
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
director/commander
7.1.12.2.3. Quality
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
assurance personnel
7.1.12.2.4. Unit contract
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
monitor
7.2. Information
Management
TR: AFH 33-337; AFIs 33-
119, 33-129, 33-321;
AFMANs 33-128, 33-326;
37-104 (will convert to AFI
33-396); AFPD 33-3;
31S5-4-7205-8-1 PKI
Fundamentals
7.2.1. Electronic
                                  -                                                           -        A          -         -
Communications
7.2.2. Internet policy
                                  -                                                           -        A          -         -
familiarization
7.2.3. E-mail Management

7.2.3.1. Policy                   -                                                           -        A          -         -

7.2.3.2. E-mail etiquette         -                                                           -        A          -         -




                                                          48                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                             STS 3D1X6


                                                                                             4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                    3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                    &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                                  LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                                 TASKS
                                          START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                            Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                          DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
7.3. Air Force Portal
TR: AF EIM CONOP; AF
EIM Strategy; AF Portal
Publishing Training Site;
Air Force Portal Content
Publishing Training Guides
7.3.1. Program objectives          -                                                           -        A          -         -

7.3.2. Roles                       -                                                           -        A          -         -
7.3.3. Enterprise
Information Management
(EIM)
7.3.3.1. Definition                -                                                           -        A          -         -

7.3.3.2. Capabilities              -                                                           -        A          -         -

7.3.4. Collaborative Tools

7.3.4.1. Community of
                                   -                                                           -        A          -         -
Practice (CoP)

7.3.4.2. Defense Connect
                                   -                                                           -        A          -         -
Online (DCO)

7.3.4.3. SharePoint                -                                                           -         -         -         -

7.4. Records Management
Program
TR: AFIs 33-322, 33-364;
AFMANs 37-104 (will
convert to AFI 33-396), 33-
363; AFPDs 33-1, 33-3; AF
Electronic Records
Management Solution
Guide; AF Records
Information Management
System (AFRIMS)
7.4.1. Program objectives          -                                                           -        A          -         -

7.4.2. Definition of official
                                   -                                                           -        A          -         -
records

7.4.3. Responsibilities            -                                                           -        A          -         -

7.4.4. Electronic Records
(E-Records) Environment
Management

7.4.4.1. Business rules for
                                   -                                                           -        B          -         -
electronic files (e-files)

7.4.5. Files Maintenance
Disposition Plan
(Paper/Electronic)

7.4.5.1. File and retrieve
                                   -                                                           -        B          -         -
documents




                                                           49                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                          STS 3D1X6


                                                                                          4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                             2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                 &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                            3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                             WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                               LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                              TASKS
                                       START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                         Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                       DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS

7.4.5.2. Cutoff procedures
                                -                                                           -        B          -         -
(paper /electronic)

7.4.6. Managing deployed
                                -                                                           -        A          -         -
records

7.4.7. Destruction              -                                                           -        B          -         -

7.5. Functional
Management
TR: AFECD; AFIs 33-101,
36-2201, 36-2845, 38-101;
AFMAN 37-104; AFQTP
3D0X1-225E ; 3D1X6
CFETP
7.5.1. Responsibilities
7.5.1.1. AF Career Field
                                7                                                           -        A          -         -
Manager
7.5.1.2. MAJCOM
                                7                                                           -        A          -         -
Functional Manager
7.5.1.3. Base Functional
                                7                                                           -        A          -         -
Manager
7.5.2. Resource
Management
7.5.2.1. Manpower
                                7                                                           -         -         -         -
products
7.5.2.2. Manpower studies       -                                                           -         -         -         -
7.5.2.3. Authorization
/Organizational Change          -                                                           -         -         -         -
Request process
7.5.2.4. Manpower
                                -                                                           -         -         -         -
standards
7.5.2.5. Allocating
                                -                                                           -         -         -         -
personnel
7.5.2.6. Job rotations          -                                                           -        A          -         -
7.5.3. Comm and Info
                                -                                                           -         -         -         -
awards program
7.5.4. Workshops
7.5.4.1. Describe the
purpose of Utilization and
                                7                                                           -        A          -         -
Training Workshop
(U&TW)
7.5.4.2. Describe the
purpose of Training             7                                                           -        A          -         -
Advisory Groups
7.5.4.3. Describe the
purpose of Occupational         7                                                           -        A          -         -
survey




                                                        50                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                           STS 3D1X6


                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                              2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                              WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                                LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                               TASKS
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                          Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
8. EXPEDITIONARY
COMMUNICATIONS &
INFORMATION (C&I)
CONCEPTS.
TR: AFDD 2-4; AFIs 10-
401, 10-403, 21-109, 33-
201V2, AFMAN 23-110
8.1. Describe Joint Task
Force (JTF) Organizational
Structure
8.1.1. Unified/Combatant
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
Commands (COCOM)
8.1.2. Air Force
Component Commander              -                                                           -         -         -         -
(AFCC)
8.1.3. Joint Force Air
Component Commander              -                                                           -         -         -         -
(JFACC)
8.1.4. Commander Air
Force Forces                     -                                                           -         -         -         -
(COMAFFOR)
8.2. Describe the
Concepts of Aerospace
Expeditionary Force (AEF)
Employment
8.2.1. AEF Tempo
                                 -                                                           -        A          -         -
Banding
8.2.2. Enabler Forces            -                                                           -         -         -         -
8.2.3. Deployment
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
Planning and Execution
8.3. Describe the following
UTC processes
8.3.1. Defined                   -                                                           -         -         -         -

8.3.2. Development
8.3.2.1. Designed
Operational Capability           -                                                           -         -         -         -
(DOC)
8.3.2.2. AEF UTCs
8.3.2.2.1. Unit Type Code
                                 5                                                          A         A          -         -
(UTC)
8.3.2.2.2. Equipment (e.g.
                                 7                                                          A         A          -         -
LOGDET)
8.3.2.2.3. Personnel (e.g.
                                 7                                                           -        A          -         -
MANFOR)
8.4. Posturing                   7                                                           -         -         -         -

8.5. Sourcing                    7                                                           -         -         -         -
8.6. Readiness Status
Reporting
8.6.1. Status of Resources
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
and Training (SORTS)
8.6.2. AEF UTC Reporting
                                 7                                                           -         -         -         -
Tool (ART)


                                                         51                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                            STS 3D1X6


                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                   3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                               2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                   &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                               WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                                 LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                                TASKS
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                           Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
8.7. Understand Force
Module communications
support concept.
8.7.1. Open the Air Base          7                                                           -         -         -         -
8.7.2. Command and
                                  7                                                           -         -         -         -
Control
8.7.3. Establish the Air
                                  7                                                           -         -         -         -
Base
8.7.4. Generate the
                                  7                                                           -         -         -         -
Mission
8.7.5. Operate the Air
                                  7                                                           -         -         -         -
Base
8.7.6. Robust the Air Base        7                                                           -         -         -         -
8.8. Deployment
Procedures
8.8.1. Develop load plan.         -                                                           -         -         -         -
8.8.2. Explain pallet build-
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
up procedures.
8.8.3. Explain hazardous
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
cargo preparation.
8.8.4. Prepare
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
documentation.
8.8.5. Determine site
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
selection requirements.
8.8.6. Determine site
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
preparation requirements.
8.8.7. Determine site
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
configuration requirements
8.8.8. Determine
requirements for
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
constructing deployment
site utility grids.
9. TYPICAL
DEPLOYABLE COMM
MISSIONS
TR: AFPAM 10-100,
MAJCOM and Local
Directives
9.1. Deployable COMM
missions:
9.1.1. Contingency
                                  -                                                           -        A          -         -
Response Groups
9.1.2. Theater Deployable
                                  -                                                           -        A          -         -
Communications (TDC)
9.1.3. Deployable Air
Traffic Control Systems           -                                                           -        A          -         -
(DATCALS)
9.1.4. Engineering
                                  -                                                           -        A          -         -
Installation
9.1.5. C4ISR Platforms
9.1.5.1. Air Operations
                                  -                                                           -        A          -         -
Centers



                                                          52                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                         STS 3D1X6


                                                                                          4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                             2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                 &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                            3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                             WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                               LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                              TASKS
                                       START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                         Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                       DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
9.1.5.2. Ground Theater
Air Control Systems (Air        -                                                           -        A          -         -
Control Squadrons)
9.1.5.3. Air Support
                                -                                                           -        A          -         -
Operations Centers
9.1.5.4. Remote Piloted
Aircraft (RPA)
9.1.5.4.1. Global Hawk          -                                                           -        A          -         -
9.1.5.4.2. Predator and
                                -                                                           -        A          -         -
Reaper
9.1.5.5. Installation
Notification and Warning        -                                                           -        A          -         -
System
9.1.5.6. American Forces
                                -                                                           -        A          -         -
Network (AFN)
9.1.5.7. Aeromedical
                                -                                                           -        A          -         -
Evacuation Support
10. ENTERPRISE
SYSTEMS
TR: AFI 13 Series, CJCSI
6211.02, Joint Pub 6-0
10.1. Combat Information
                                -                                                           -        A          -         -
Transport System (CITS)
10.2. Global Command
and Control Systems             -                                                           -        A          -         -
(GCCS)
10.3. Global Combat
                                -                                                           -        A          -         -
Support Systems (GCSS)
10.4. Global Information
                                -                                                           -        A          -         -
Grid (GIG)
10.5. Defense Information
                                -                                                           -        B          -         -
Systems Network (DISN)
10.6. Defense Switched
                                -                                                           -        B          -         -
Network (DSN)
10.7. Non-secure Internet
Protocol Router Network         -                                                           -        B          -         -
(NIPRNET)
10.8. Secure Networks
10.8.1. Secret Internet
Protocol Router Network         -                                                           -        B          -         -
(SIPRNET)
10.8.2. Defense Red
                                -                                                           -        A          -         -
Switch Network (DRSN)
10.8.3. Joint World-wide
Intelligence
                                -                                                           -        A          -         -
Communications System
(JWICS)
10.8.4. National Security
                                -                                                           -        A          -         -
Agency (NSA) Net
10.8.5. Global Broadcast
                                -                                                           -        A          -         -
Service (GBS)
10.8.6. Global Positioning
                                -                                                           -        A          -         -
System (GPS)




                                                        53                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                            STS 3D1X6


                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                   3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                               2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                   &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                               WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                                 LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                                TASKS
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                           Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
10.8.7. Distributed
Common Ground System              -                                                           -        A          -         -
(DCGS)
10.8.8. Battle Control
                                  -                                                           -        A          -         -
System – Fixed
10.8.9. Theater Battle
Management Core                   -                                                           -        A          -         -
Systems (TBMCS)
10.9. Nuclear Command
and Control Systems TR:
AFPD 3-72 Nuclear
Operations, CJCSI
3231.01B Nuclear
Command and Control
Extremely Sensitive
Operation
10.9.1. National Military
                                  -                                                           -        A          -         -
Command Center (NMCC)
10.9.2. Global High
                                  -                                                           -        A          -         -
Frequency Network
10.9.3. Strategic
Automated Command and             -                                                           -        A          -         -
Control System (SACCS)
10.9.4. Military Strategic
and Tactical Relay                -                                                           -         -         -         -
(MILSTAR) Satellite
10.9.5. Minimum Essential
Emergency
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
Communications Network
(MEECN)
10.10. Space Systems
Elements TR: AFQTP
3DXXX-232A
10.10.1. Air Force Satellite
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
Control Network (AFSCN)
10.10.2. Defense
Meteorological Satellite          -                                                           -         -         -         -
Program (DMSP)
10.11. DoD Teleports &
Standard Tactical Entry
                                  -                                                           -        A          -         -
Points TR: AFQTP
3DXXX-232A
11. ORGANIZATIONAL
STRUCTURE
TR: AFPD 13-3; AFI 33-
115V1, 38-101
11.1. Communication
                                  -                                                           -        A          -         -
Squadron
11.2. Combat
                                  -                                                           -        A          -         -
Communications Squadron
11.3. Expeditionary
                                  -                                                           -        A          -         -
Communications Squadron
11.4. Air Force Network
Operations (AFNETOPS)




                                                          54                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                          STS 3D1X6


                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                              2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                              WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                                LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                               TASKS
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                          Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
11.4.1. Air Force Network
Operations Center                -                                                           -        B          -         -
(AFNOC).
11.4.2. Integrated Network
Operations Security Center       -                                                           -        B          -         -
(INOSC).
11.4.3. Enterprise Service
                                 -                                                           -        B          -         -
Unit (ESU).
11.4.4. Area Processing
                                 -                                                           -        B          -         -
Center (APC).
11.4.5. Enterprise Service
                                 -                                                           -        B          -         -
Desk (ESD)
12. CYBER
OPERATIONS
TR: AFDD 3-12
12.1 Structure                   -                                                           -        A          -         -

12.2 Missions

12.2.1. Offensive                -                                                           -        A          -         -

12.2.2. Defensive                -                                                           -        A          -         -

12.2.3. Exploitation             -                                                           -        A          -
12.2.4. Other (e.g.
Influence Operations
                                 -                                                           -        A          -         -
(IFO), Electronic Warfare
(EW))
12.3. Network Warfare
Fundamentals
12.3.1. Control Systems
(e.g. Supervisory Control
                                 -                                                           -        A          -         -
and Data Acquisition
(SCADA) networks)
12.3.2. Tactical Data Link
                                 -                                                           -        A          -         -
(TADL) networks
12.3.3. Network
                                 -                                                           -        A          -         -
Exploitation Capabilities
12.4. Cyber Capabilities
12.4.1. Affects on
                                 -                                                           -        B          -         -
adversary decision makers
12.4.2. Role of cyber
operations in achieving
                                 -                                                           -        B          -         -
military and national goals
and objectives
12.4.3. Information
                                 -                                                           -        B          -         -
Superiority
12.4.4. Air Force Network
Operations Center                -                                                           -        B          -         -
(AFNOC) Role
12.4.5. Air and Space
Operations Center (AOC)          -                                                           -        B          -         -
Role




                                                         55                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                          STS 3D1X6


                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                              2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                              WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                                LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                               TASKS
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                          Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
12.4.6. Checklists,
Standard Operating
Instructions (SOP),              -                                                           -        B          -         -
Tactics, Techniques and
Procedures (TTP)
13. BASIC COMPUTER
FUNDAMENTALS
TR: IT E-Learning, Cyber
Support Training, 3DXXX
Basic Computer
Fundamentals
13.1. Communications &
Network Protocols
13.1.1. Connection
                                 -                                                           -        B          -         -
Oriented Communication
13.1.2. Connectionless
                                 -                                                           -        B          -         -
Oriented Communication
13.1.3. International
Standards Organization
                                 -                                                           -        B          -         -
(ISO) Open Systems
Interconnect (OSI) Model
13.1.4. TCP/IP                   -                                                           -        B          -         -
13.1.5. Department of
Defense (DoD) Standard           -                                                           -        A          -         -
Protocols
13.1.6. IPv4/IPV6                -                                                           -        B          -         -

13.1.7. Ports (IP)               -                                                           -        A          -         -
13.2. Network
Theory/Components
13.2.1. Components

13.2.1.1 Principles              -                                                           -        B          -         -
13.2.1.2 Central
                                 -                                                           -        A          -         -
Processing Unit (CPU)
13.2.1.3 Computer
                                 -                                                           -        A          -         -
memory
13.2.1.4 Input/output (I/O)
                                 -                                                           -        A          -         -
Devices
13.2.1.5 Storage Devices         -                                                           -        A          -         -
13.2.1.6 Peripherals
(Printers, FAX, Scanners,        -                                                           -        A          -         -
etc)
13.2.2 Network Types
13.2.2.1 Wired ( LAN,
                                 -                                                           -        A          -         -
WAN, MAN)
13.2.2.2 Wireless                -                                                           -        A          -         -
13.2.2.3 Virtual Private
                                 -                                                           -        A          -         -
Network (VPN)
13.2.2.4 Topologies (Star,
                                 -                                                           -        A          -         -
Ring, Bus, hybrid)




                                                         56                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                           STS 3D1X6


                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                              2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                              WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                                LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                               TASKS
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                          Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
13.2.2.5 Theory and
operation of switching
                                 -                                                           -        A          -         -
devices (e.g. ATM, ISDN,
GIG-E)
13.3. Network Devices

13.3.1. Modems                   -                                                           -        A          -         -

13.3.2. Switches                 -                                                           -        A          -         -

13.3.3. Multiplexers             -                                                           -        A          -         -

13.3.4. Bridges/routers          -                                                           -        A          -         -
13.3.5. Encryption
                                 -                                                           -        A          -         -
Devices
13.4. Communications
                                 -                                                           -        A          -         -
Mediums
13.5. LAN Architecture           -                                                           -        A          -         -

13.6. Software
13.6.1. Operating
Systems (e.g. UNIX,              -                                                           -        A          -         -
Windows, LINUX)
13.6.2. Applications (e.g.
                                 -                                                           -        A          -         -
Word, Excel, Power Point)
13.6.3. Infectious and
                                 -                                                           -        B          -         -
malicious Software
14. COUNTER-
CHEMICAL,
BIOLOGICAL,
RADIOLOGICAL and
NUCLEAR
TR: AFPAM 10-100, 10-
2501
14.1. Describe threats

14.1.1. Chemical                 -                                                           -         -         -         -

14.1.2. Biological               -                                                           -         -         -         -

14.1.3. Nuclear                  -                                                           -         -         -         -

14.1.4. Radiological             -                                                           -         -         -         -
14.2. Warning systems,
signals and reporting
procedures.
14.2.1. Joint and Coalition      -                                                           -         -         -         -

14.2.2. Air Force                -                                                           -         -         -         -
14.2.3. Respond to alarm
conditions.
14.2.3.1. Identify and
prioritize mission/service       -                                                           -         -         -         -
restoration
14.2.3.2. Post-attack
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
personnel accountability


                                                         57                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                           STS 3D1X6


                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                              2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                              WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                                LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                               TASKS
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                          Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
14.2.3.3. Post-attack
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
reconnaissance
14.2.3.4. Identify and
mark CBRNE to include            -                                                           -         -         -         -
unexploded ordinance
14.2.3.5. Report
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
suspicious activities
14.3. Mission Oriented
Protective Postures.
14.3.1. Describe                 -                                                           -         -         -         -

14.3.2. Implement                -                                                           -         -         -         -
14.4. Individual protective
equipment & personal
protective
equipment (IPE/PPE)
14.4.1. Requirements and
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
Limitations
14.4.2. Joint Service
Lightweight Integrated Suit
Technology (JLIST)
14.4.2.1. Inspect and
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
maintain
14.4.2.2. Wear                   -                                                           -         -         -         -
14.4.2.3. Perform critical
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
mission tasks
14.4.2.4. Execute work-
rest cycles and hydration        -                                                           -         -         -         -
standards
14.4.2.5. Perform self aid
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
and buddy care
14.4.2.6. Perform
contaminated personnel           -                                                           -         -         -         -
movement
14.4.2.7. Perform
decontamination                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
procedures
15. AIR FORCE
COMPUTER BASED
TRAINING (Note 1)
TR:
https://www.my.af.mil/faf/F
AF/fafHome.jsp (Under IT
E-Learning)
15.1. 3D1XX Common
Fundamentals Training
Tracks.
15.1.1. Introduction to
Telecommunications               5                                                           -         -         -         -
(72111_ENG).
15.1.2. Introduction to
Signals and Signal
                                 5                                                           -         -         -         -
Transmission (84650
ENG).




                                                         58                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                           STS 3D1X6


                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                              2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                              WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                                LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                               TASKS
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                          Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
15.1.3. Introduction to
Communications Methods
                                 5                                                           -         -         -         -
and Equipment (110725
ENG).
15.1.4. CompTIA
Network+ 2009: Network
                                 5                                                           -         -         -         -
Fundamentals
(cs_ctnt_a01_it_enus)
15.1.5. Techniques for
Improved Time
                                 5                                                           -         -         -         -
Management
(pd_01_a02_bs_enus)
15.1.6. CompTIA
Network+ 2009: Wide Area
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
Networks
(cs_ctnt_a06_it_enus)
15.1.7. Project
Management Overview              7                                                           -         -         -         -
(proj_05_a02_bs_enus)
15.1.8. Project
Management Process
                                 7                                                           -         -         -         -
Groups
(proj_05_a03_bs_enus)
15.1.9. Integrated
Initiation and Planning          7                                                           -         -         -         -
(proj_06_a01_bs_enus)
15.1.10. Integrated
Project Execution,
                                 7                                                           -         -         -         -
Monitoring, and Control
(proj_06_a02_bs_enus)
15.1.11. Integrated
Project Change Control
                                 7                                                           -         -         -         -
and Close
(proj_06_a03_bs_enus)
15.1.12. Risk
Management Planning              7                                                           -         -         -         -
(proj_13_a01_bs_enus)
15.2. 3D1X6 Airfield
Systems Track

15.2.1. Identifying, Adding
and Removing System
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
Components (123900
ENG)

15.2.2. System
Resources, Installing and
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
Configuring IDE and SCSI
Devices. (123909 ENG).
16. TEST EQUIPMENT
TR: TO 33K-1-100-1,
Applicable test equipment
technical orders




                                                         59                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                             STS 3D1X6


                                                                                             4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                    3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                    &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                               3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                                  LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                                 TASKS
                                          START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                            Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                          DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
16.1. Identify principles,
capabilities, limitations and
perform equipment
maintenance using the
following test equipment:
16.1.1. Oscilloscope               5                                                          2b        A          -         -

16.1.2. Multimeter                 5                                                          2b        A          -         -
16.1.3. Optical time
                                   -                                                           -         -         -         -
domain reflectometer
16.1.4. Time domain
                                   -                                                           -         -         -         -
reflectometer.
16.1.5. Bit error rate test
                                   -                                                           -         -         -         -
set
16.1.6. Frequency counter         5*                                                          2b        A          -         -
16.1.7. Network/Protocol
                                   -                                                           -         -         -         -
Analyzer
16.1.8. Spectrum Analyzer         5*                                                          2b        A          -         -

16.1.9. Power Meter               5*                                                          2b        A          -         -
16.1.10. RF Signal
                                  5*                                                          2b        A          -         -
Generator
16.1.11. Insulation Test
                                   -                                                           -         -         -         -
Set
16.1.12. Megaohmeter               -                                                           -         -         -         -
16.1.13. Built-in test
                                   -                                                           -         -         -         -
equipment
16.1.14. Breakout box              -                                                           -         -         -         -
16.1.15. Communications
                                   -                                                           -         -         -         -
System Analyzer
16.1.16. Sweep Generator           -                                                           -         -         -         -
16.1.17. Function
                                   -                                                           -         -         -         -
Generator
16.1.18. RMS Voltmeter             -                                                           -         -         -         -
16.1.19. Distortion
                                  5*                                                          2b         -         -         -
Analyzer
16.1.20. Wattmeter                5*                                                          2b        A          -         -

16.1.21. Dummy Load               5*                                                          2b         -         -         -

16.1.22. Audio Oscillator         5*                                                          2b         -         -         -

16.1.23. Infrared Tester           -                                                           -         -         -         -
16.1.24. Earth Ground
                                   -                                                           -        A          -         -
Tester
16.1.25. Frequency
                                   -                                                           -         -         -         -
Generator
16.1.26. Wavemeter                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
16.1.27. Noise Figure
                                   -                                                           -         -         -         -
Meter



                                                           60                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                          STS 3D1X6


                                                                                          4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                             2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                 &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                            3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                             WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                               LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                              TASKS
                                       START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                         Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                       DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS

16.1.28. Portable ILS
                               5*                                                          2b        A          -         -
Receiver.

16.1.29. Vector
                               5*                                                          2b        A          -         -
Voltmeters.

16.1.30. Audio Test
                               5*                                                          2b        A          -         -
Set/Line Level Test Set

16.1.31. Anemometer
                               5*                                                          2b         -         -         -
Drive windspeed test set

16.1.32. Vane Angle test
                               5*                                                          2b         -         -         -
set

16.1.33. Vane Torque
                               5*                                                          2b         -         -         -
gauge

16.1.34. Propeller Torque
                               5*                                                          2b         -         -         -
tester

16.1.35. AT/RH test set        5*                                                          2b         -         -         -

16.1.36. Digital Barometer
                               5*                                                          2b         -         -         -
test set

16.1.37. Visibility
                                -                                                          2b         -         -         -
Calibration test set

16.1.38. Angle Locator          -                                                          2b         -         -         -
17. SPECIALIZED
TOOLS.
TR: Applicable technical
publications.
17.1. Amphenol tool.            -                                                           -         -         -         -

17.2. Tone generator.           -                                                           -         -         -         -

17.3. Inductive amplifier.      -                                                           -         -         -         -

17.4. Lan Tester                -                                                           -         -         -         -

17.5. Light Source              -                                                           -         -         -         -

17.6. Transit                   -                                                           -         -         -         -

17.7. Fusion Splicer            -                                                           -         -         -         -

17.8. Fiber Optic Source
                                -                                                           -         -         -         -
and Meter
18. STANDARD
PRACTICES.
TR: TOs 00-25-234-WA-1,
31-10-7, 31-10-11, 31-10-
13, 31-10-24-WA-1, 31-1-
141-1 volume 1, and 31W3
10-200; AFI 32-1065,
American Public Works
Association Policy and
American National St



                                                        61                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                            STS 3D1X6


                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                   3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                               2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                   &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                               WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                                 LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                                TASKS
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                           Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
18.1. State facts related to
the following practices:
18.1.1. Installation.             -                                                           -         -         -         -

18.1.2. Configuration.            -                                                           -         -         -         -

18.1.3. Interconnection.          -                                                           -         -         -         -

18.1.4. Inspection.               7                                                           -        A          -         -
18.2. Marking and
identifying underground           -                                                           -         -         -         -
utilities.
18.3. EMSEC suppression
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
techniques.
18.4. Cable labeling and
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
installation documentation.
18.5. Wire color-coding
                                  -                                                           -        B          -         -
standards.
18.6. Fiber optics
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
installation concepts.
18.7. Explain land line
concepts.
18.7.1. Copper cables.            -                                                           -        A          -         -

18.7.2. Coaxial cables.           -                                                           -        A          -         -

18.7.3. Fiber optic cable.        -                                                           -        A          -         -
18.7.4. Interfacing
considerations (e.g. TRI-
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
TAC, Pinouts, signal
format)
18.8. Concepts of:

18.8.1. Grounding.                5                                                          A         A          -         -

18.8.2. Bonding.                  5                                                          A         A          -         -

18.8.3. Shielding.                5                                                          A         A          -         -
18.8.4. Lightning
                                  5                                                          A         A          -         -
protection.
18.9. Electrostatic
Discharge

18.9.1. Principles                5                                                          A         A          -         -

18.9.2. Concepts                  5                                                           -        A          -         -
18.9.3. Handling,
                                  5                                                           -        A          -         -
Packaging and Storing
18.10. Equipment
grounding and Lightning
Protection.
18.10.1. Install                  -                                                           -         -         -         -

18.10.2. Remove                   -                                                           -         -         -         -




                                                          62                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                         STS 3D1X6


                                                                                         4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                            2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                           3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                            WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                              LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                             TASKS
                                      START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                        Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                      DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
18.10.3. Perform
inspection and                 5                                                           -         -         -         -
maintenance
18.11. Equipment
Familiarization
18.11.1. Locate Elements

18.11.1.1. Alphanumerics       -                                                           -         -         -         -
18.11.1.2. Visual
                               -                                                           -         -         -         -
Inspection
18.12. Basic
Troubleshooting                5                                                          A          -         -         -
Techniques
19. COMMUNICATIONS
PRINCIPLES.
TR: TO 31-1-141 Series
19.1. Amplitude
                               -                                                           -        B          -         -
Modulation (AM).
19.2. Frequency
                               -                                                           -        A          -         -
Modulation (FM).
19.3. Phase Modulation
                               -                                                           -        A          -         -
(PM).
19.4. Pulse Code
                               -                                                           -        A          -         -
Modulation (PCM).
19.5. Bandwidth.               -                                                           -        A          -         -
19.6. Light wave
                               -                                                           -         -         -         -
communications.
19.7. Asynchronous and
synchronous                    -                                                           -        A          -         -
communication modes.
19.8. Error detection and
                               -                                                           -        A          -         -
correction.
20. ELECTRICAL
POWER SYSTEMS
TR: Commercial Manuals
20.1. Switched electrical
                               -                                                           -        A          -         -
power systems.
20.2. Uninterruptible
                               -                                                           -        A          -         -
Power Supplies (UPS).
20.3. Batteries.               -                                                           -        A          -         -

20.4. Rectifiers               -                                                           -         -         -         -

20.5. Inverters                -                                                           -         -         -         -

20.6. Generators               -                                                           -        A          -         -

21. Tower Climbing
Procedures and Safety
Requirements
TR: AFOSH 91-50 &
AFOSH 91-501
21.1. Tower climbing
fundamentals



                                                       63                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                            STS 3D1X6


                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                   3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                               2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                   &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                               WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                                 LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                                TASKS
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                           Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS

21.1.1. AFOSH/OSHA
                                  -                                                          B         A          -         -
climbing standards

21.1.2. Climbing safety
                                  -                                                          B         B          -         -
principles

21.1.3. Proper care, use
and storage of climbing           -                                                          B         B          -         -
equipment

21.2. Tower climbing
techniques

21.2.1. Climb towers

21.2.1.1. Conduct and
document inspections on           -                                                          2b         -         -         -
fall restraint devices

21.2.1.2. Use fall restraint
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
devices

21.2.1.3. Use personal
                                  -                                                          2b         -         -         -
climbing equipment

21.2.1.4. Perform climbing
                                  -                                                          2b         -         -         -
techniques Note 8

21.2.2. Work aloft at
extended heights

21.2.2.1. Tie knots/hitches
                                  -                                                          2b         -         -         -
in fiber ropes

21.2.2.2. Secure tools or
equipment at working              -                                                          2b         -         -         -
height

21.2.2.3. Raise or lower
equipment on aerial               -                                                          2b         -         -         -
systems

21.2.2.4. Rig
ascending/descending              -                                                           -         -         -         -
equipment

21.2.3. Rescue
procedures at extended
heights

21.2.3.1. Rescue safety
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
considerations

21.2.3.2. Perform rescue
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
procedures

22. AIRFIELD
OPERATIONS SUPPORT.
(Note 9)
TR: AEF Online thru the
Portal



                                                          64                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                          STS 3D1X6


                                                                                          4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                             2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                 &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                            3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                             WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                               LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                              TASKS
                                       START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                         Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                       DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS

22.1. Typical airfield
systems facility                5                                                          A         A          -         -
configuration

22.2. Airfield systems
relationship in the             5                                                          A         A          -         -
aerodrome

22.3. Airfield systems
relationship to safety of       5                                                          A         A          -         -
flight

22.4. Flight Inspection
Procedures. TR: AFMAN
11-225

22.4.1. Describe the types
                                5                                                          A         A          -         -
of flight checks.

22.4.2. Describe facility
                                5                                                          A         A          -         -
classification.

22.4.3. Explain technician
                                5                                                          A         A          -         -
responsibilities.

22.4.4. Describe Flight
                                5                                                          A         B
Inspection Report

22.4.5. Analyze/ Interpret
                                7                                                           -         -
Flight Check Reports

22.5. Maintain Facility
Records TR: AFI 33-150,         5                                                          A         A
TO 00-33A-1001-WA-1

23. EQUIPMENT
INSTALLATION.
TR: AFI 33-104; TO 31-10
Series and 31Z Series,
UFC 3-260-01 and
applicable system
manuals.

23.1. Analyze policies and
procedures for
programming and planning        -                                                           -         -         -         -
installation of C-E
equipment.

23.2. Install equipment in
accordance with                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
installation instructions.

23.3. Interconnect
equipment in accordance
                                -                                                           -         -         -         -
with installation
instructions.




                                                        65                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                            STS 3D1X6


                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                   3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                               2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                   &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                               WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                                 LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                                TASKS
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                           Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS

23.4. Inspect equipment
installations in accordance
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
with installation
instructions.

23.5. Inspect equipment
during pre-installation and       -                                                           -         -         -         -
post installation phases.

23.6. Explain ILS, VOR,
TACAN and weather                 -                                                           -        A          -         -
system siting criteria.

24. METEOROLOGY.
TR: Federal Meteorological
Handbook FMH-1

24.1. Temperature/
                                  5                                                          B         A          -         -
Dewpoint Measurement.

24.2. Wind Measurement.           5                                                          B         A          -         -

24.3. Visibility
                                  5                                                          B         A          -         -
Measurement.

24.4. Barometers
                                  5                                                          B         A          -         -
/Altimeters.

24.5. Cloud Height
                                  5                                                          B         A          -         -
Measurement.

25. AMBIENT TEMP AND
DEW POINT MEASURING
SET AN/FMQ-8.
TR: AN/FMQ-8, 31M1-
2FMQ8-1
25.1. State the functional
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
description.

25.2. Identify the technical
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
characteristics.

25.3. Describe the
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
operation.

26. WIND
MEASUREMENT SET
AN/FMQ-13.
TR: 31M1-2FMQ13-2;
31M1-2FMQ13-6WC-1
26.1. Theory of Operation         -                                                           -         -         -         -

26.2. Capabilities and
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
Limitations

26.3. Perform fault
isolation/troubleshoot            -                                                           -         -         -         -
system.




                                                          66                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                         STS 3D1X6


                                                                                         4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                            2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                           3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                            WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                              LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                             TASKS
                                      START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                        Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                      DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS

27. TRANSMISSOMETER
SET AN/GMQ-32.
TR: 31M1-2GMQ32-1;
31M1-2GMQ32-9
27.1. Theory of Operation      -                                                           -         -         -         -

27.2. Capabilities and
                               -                                                           -         -         -         -
Limitations

27.3. Perform fault
isolation/troubleshoot         -                                                           -         -         -         -
system.

28. DIGITAL
ALTIMETER-
BAROMETER ML-
658/GM.
TR: ML-658/GM
31M1-2GM-66WC-1
28.1. Theory of Operation      -                                                           -         -         -         -

28.2. Capabilities and
                               -                                                           -         -         -         -
Limitations

28.3. Perform fault
isolation/troubleshoot         -                                                           -         -         -         -
system.

29. CLOUD HEIGHT SET,
AN/GMQ-34.
TR: AN/GMQ-34, 31M2-
2GMQ-34
29.1. Theory of Operation      -                                                           -         -         -         -

29.2. Capabilities and
                               -                                                           -         -         -         -
Limitations

29.3. Perform fault
isolation/troubleshoot         -                                                           -         -         -         -
system.

30. AUTOMATIC
METEOROLOGICAL
SYSTEM AN/FMQ-19.
TR: T.O. 31M1-2FMQ19-
1-CD-1; 31M1-2FMQ19-
6WC-1-WA-1

30.1. Theory of Operation      -                                                          B         B

30.2. Capabilities and
                               -                                                          A         A
limitations

30.3. Airport weather
advisory program.

30.3.1. Use general
                               -                                                          2b         -         -         -
function menus



                                                       67                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                            STS 3D1X6


                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                   3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                               2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                   &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                               WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                                 LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                                TASKS
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                           Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS

30.3.2. Use Maintainer
                                  -                                                          2b         -         -         -
functions menus

30.4. Perform turn on/off
                                  -                                                          2b         -         -         -
procedures.

30.5. Perform 168-Day
                                  -                                                          2b         -         -         -
Functional Test

30.6. Perform fault
                                  -                                                          2b         -         -         -
isolation.

31. NON-DIRECTIONAL
BEACON TR: Applicable
TOs

31.1. Analyze and
interpret the effects of the
alignment and adjustment
                                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
routines on
system\equipment
performance.

31.2. Interpret and
evaluate performance data
to determine if systems           -                                                           -         -         -         -
meet established reference
parameters.

32. INSTRUMENT
LANDING SYSTEM.
TR: AFMAN 11-225 and
TO 31R4-2GRN29 Series,
31R4-2GRN30 Series,
31R4-2GRN31 Series,
31R4-2GRN32 Series.

32.1. Theory of
                                  -                                                          B         B          -         -
Operations.

32.2. Capabilities and
                                  -                                                          A         A          -         -
Limitations.

32.3. Perform turn on\off
                                  -                                                          2b         -         -         -
procedure.

32.4. Perform localizer
                                  -                                                          2b         -         -         -
transmitter alignments.

32.5. Perform glideslope
                                  -                                                          2b         -         -         -
transmitter alignments.

32.6. Perform RF Detector
                                  -                                                          2b         -         -         -
Unit (RDU) alignment.

32.7. Perform monitor
                                  -                                                          2b         -         -         -
alignments.

32.8. Perform carrier to
sideband phasing check            -                                                          2b         -         -         -
portion of the 168-day PMI.



                                                          68                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                           STS 3D1X6


                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                              2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                              WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                                LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                               TASKS
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                          Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS

32.9. Perform capture
effect glideslope amplitude
                                 -                                                          2b         -         -         -
phase control unit (APCU)
alignment.

32.10. Perform fault
isolation/troubleshoot           -                                                          2b         -         -         -
system.

32.11. Ground Check
                                 -                                                          A         A
procedures

32.12. Flight inspection
                                 -                                                          A         B          -         -
procedures.

33. VERY HIGH
FREQUENCY
OMNIRANGE (VOR),
AN/FRN-44.
TR: AFMAN 11-225 and
31R4-2FRN44 series

33.1 Theory of Operation.        -                                                          B         B          -         -

33.2 Capabilities and            -
                                                                                            A         A          -         -
limitations.

33.3 Perform log-in              -
                                                                                            2b         -         -         -
procedure.

33.4 Perform menu                -
                                                                                            2b         -         -         -
operation procedures.

33.5. Perform turn on/off        -
                                                                                            2b         -         -         -
procedures.

33.6. Emergency                  -
                                                                                            A          -         -         -
shutdown procedures.

33.7. Perform 168 day            -
                                                                                            2b         -         -         -
ground check inspection.

33.8. Perform 168 day            -
                                                                                            2b         -         -         -
spectrum check.

33.9 Perform the                 -
frequency check portion of                                                                  2b         -         -         -
the 336 day PMI.

33.10 Perform analog test        -
                                                                                            2b         -         -         -
generator alignment.

33.11 Perform filter             -
                                                                                            2b         -         -         -
detector alignment.

33.12. Perform fault             -
isolation/troubleshoot                                                                      2b         -         -         -
system.

33.13. Flight inspection         -
                                                                                            A         B          -         -
procedures.



                                                         69                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                          STS 3D1X6


                                                                                          4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                             2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                 &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                            3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                             WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                               LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                              TASKS
                                       START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                         Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                       DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS

34. TACTICAL AIR
NAVIGATION SYSTEM
(TACAN), AN/FRN-45.
TR: AFMAN 11-225 and
31R4-2FRN45 series

34.1. Theory of Operation.      -                                                          B         B          -         -

34.2. Capabilities and
                                -                                                          A         A          -         -
limitations.

34.3. Local/Remote
Maintenance Computer.           -                                                          2b         -         -         -
Note 9

34.4. Perform turn on/off
procedures and recognize        -                                                          2b         -         -         -
normal indications.

34.5. Perform Reply pulse
characteristic performance      -                                                          2b         -         -         -
test.

34.6. Perform Azimuth
group characteristics           -                                                          2b         -         -         -
performance test.

34.7. Perform identity
group characteristics           -                                                          2b         -         -         -
performance test.

34.8. Perform North
                                -                                                          2b         -         -         -
trigger performance test.

34.9. Perform Auxiliary
                                -                                                          2b         -         -         -
trigger performance test.

34.10. Perform
Transponder
                                -                                                          2b         -         -         -
programmable echo
level/receiver alignment.

34.11. Perform
Transponder video               -                                                          2b         -         -         -
processor alignment.

34.12. Perform
Transponder 400-watt            -                                                          b          -         -         -
amplifier alignment.

34.13. Perform
Transponder 100-watt            -                                                          b          -         -         -
amplifier alignment.

34.14. Perform Directional
                                -                                                          2b         -         -         -
coupler calibration.

34.15. Perform Monitor
frequency synthesizer           -                                                          2b         -         -         -
alignment.




                                                        70                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                         STS 3D1X6


                                                                                         4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                            2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                           3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                            WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                              LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                             TASKS
                                      START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                        Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                      DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS

34.16. Perform Monitor
                               -                                                          2b         -         -         -
multiplexer alignment.

34.17. Perform Monitor
timing pulse generator         -                                                          2b         -         -         -
alignment.

34.18. Perform 168-day
                               -                                                          2b         -         -         -
PMI.

34.19. Perform Fault
                               -                                                          2b         -         -         -
Isolation.

34.20. Flight inspection
                               -                                                          A         B          -         -
procedures.

35. TACAN, AN/TRN-26.
TR: 31R4-2TRN26-2;
31R4-2TRN26-6WC-1

35.1. Theory or Operation      -                                                           -         -         -         -

35.2. Capabilities and
                               -                                                           -         -         -         -
Limitations

35.3. Perform fault
isolation/troubleshoot         -                                                           -         -         -         -
system.

36. TACAN, AN/TRN-41.
TR: 31R4-2TRN41-2

36.1. Theory or Operation      -                                                          B         A          -         -

36.2. Capabilities and
                               -                                                          A         A          -         -
Limitations

36.3. Perform fault
isolation/troubleshoot         -                                                           -         -         -         -
system.

37. Mobile Control
Tower AN/MSN-7
TR: 31R5-2MSN7-1

37.1. Theory of Operation      -                                                          A         A          -         -

37.2. Capabilities and
                               -                                                          A         A          -         -
limitations

37.3. Perform fault
isolation/troubleshoot         -                                                           -         -         -         -
system.

38. Mobile Microwave
Landing System
AN/TRN-45
TR: 31R4-2TRN45-1;
31R4-2TRN45-6WC-1
38.1. Theory of Operation      -                                                           -        A          -         -



                                                       71                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                          STS 3D1X6


                                                                                          4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                             2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                 &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                            3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                             WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                               LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                              TASKS
                                       START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                         Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                       DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS

38.2. Capabilities and
                                -                                                           -        A          -         -
limitations

38.3. Perform fault
isolation/troubleshoot          -                                                           -         -         -         -
system.

39. RADIO CONCEPTS
TR: TO 31-1-141 Series

39.1. Transmitters
                                5                                                          B         A          -         -
(UHF/VHF).

39.2. Receivers
                                5                                                          B         A          -         -
(UHF/VHF).

39.3. Transceivers
                                5                                                          B         A          -         -
(UHF/VHF).

39.4. Ancillary Equipment.

39.4.1. Linear power
                                -                                                           -        A          -         -
amplifiers.

39.4.2. Antenna systems.        -                                                          B         A          -         -

39.4.3. Transmission
                                -                                                          A         A          -         -
lines.

39.4.4. Remote control
                                -                                                          B          -         -         -
functions.

39.4.5. Recorder/
                                -                                                          B         A          -         -
reproducers.

39.5. Couplers.

39.5.1. CU-547                  -                                                          B         A          -         -

39.5.2. CU-2274                 -                                                          B          -         -         -

40. VHF/UHF AM
TRANSMITTER
EQUIPMENT (AN/GRT-21
or AN/GRT-22).
TR: 31R2-2GRT-102;
31R2-2GRT-106WC-1;
40.1. Theory of
                                -                                                          B         B          -         -
Operations.

40.2. Capabilities and
                                -                                                          A         A          -         -
limitations.

40.3. Perform 336-day
                                -                                                          2b         -         -         -
PMI.

40.4. Perform Tuning.           -                                                          2b         -         -         -

40.5. Perform Alignments
with the exception of the       -                                                          2b         -         -         -
frequency synthesizer.



                                                        72                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                         STS 3D1X6


                                                                                         4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                            2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                           3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                            WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                              LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                             TASKS
                                      START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                        Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                      DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS

40.6. Perform fault
                               -                                                          2b         -         -         -
isolation

41. VHF/UHF AM
RECEIVER EQUIPMENT
(AN/GRR-23 or AN/GRR-
24). TR: 31R2-2GRR-112

41.1. Theory of
                               -                                                          B         B          -         -
Operations.

41.2. Capabilities and
                               -                                                          A         A          -         -
Limitations.

41.3. Perform 336-day
                               -                                                          2b         -         -         -
PMI.

41.4. Perform Tuning.          -                                                          2b         -         -         -

41.5. Perform Alignments
with the exception of the      -                                                          2b         -         -         -
frequency synthesizer.

41.6. Perform fault
                               -                                                          2b         -         -         -
isolation

42. VHF/UHF AM
TRANSCEIVER
EQUIPMENT (AN/GRC-
211 or AN/GRC-171).
TR: 31R2-2GRC171-2;

42.1. Theory of
                               -                                                          B         B          -         -
Operations.

42.2. Capabilities and
                               -                                                          A         A          -         -
Limitations.

42.3. Perform 336-day
                               -                                                          2b         -         -         -
PMI.

42.4. Perform Front panel
                               -                                                          2b         -         -         -
adjustments.

42.5. Perform Fault
                               -                                                          2b         -         -         -
isolation.

43. AN/TRC-176.
TR: 31R2-2TRC176-1;
31R2-2TRC176-2; 31R2-
2URC-62
43.1. Theory of
                               -                                                          B         A          -         -
Operations.

43.2. Capabilities and
                               -                                                          A         A          -         -
Limitations.




                                                       73                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                          STS 3D1X6


                                                                                          4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                             2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                 &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                            3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                             WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                               LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                              TASKS
                                       START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                         Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                       DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS

44. ENHANCED
TERMINAL VOICE
SWITCH (ETVS)
SYSTEM.
TR: Technical Instruction
Book – Vol 1, ETVS;
Supervisor Configuration
Terminal (SCT) User
Manual, ETVS
44.1. Theory of
                                -                                                          B         B          -         -
Operations.

44.2. Capabilities and
                                -                                                          A         A          -         -
Limitations.

44.3. Digital audio/TDM
principles associated with
                                -                                                          B          -         -         -
ATC Air to Ground
systems.

44.4. System architecture.      -                                                          B          -         -         -

44.5. Operator position
                                -                                                          B          -         -         -
equipment.

44.6. Transmit and
                                -                                                          B          -         -         -
receive audio path.

44.7. Configuration and
Control Subsystem (CCS)         -                                                          B          -         -         -
equipment.

44.8. Central rack
                                -                                                          A          -         -         -
equipment.

44.9. Power distribution
                                -                                                          A          -         -         -
equipment.

44.10. Operating
procedures of the position      -                                                          A          -         -         -
consoles.

44.11. Perform Position
                                -                                                          2b         -         -         -
operational checkout.

44.12. Perform
                                -                                                          2b         -         -         -
Configuration changes.

44.13. Perform Prescribed
                                -                                                          2b         -         -         -
maintenance procedures.

44.14. Perform
Performance checks on           -                                                          2b         -         -         -
circuit card assemblies.

44.15. Perform
Alignments on circuit card      -                                                          2b         -         -         -
assemblies.

44.16. Perform Fault
                                -                                                          2b         -         -         -
isolation


                                                        74                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                          STS 3D1X6


                                                                                          4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                             2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                 &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                            3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                             WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                               LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                              TASKS
                                       START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                         Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                       DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS

45. AN/GSH-59,
AUTOMATED TERMINAL
INFORMATION SYSTEM
(ATIS) RECORDER-
REPRODUCER.
TR: Applicable TOs

45.1. Theory of Operation       -                                                           -         -         -         -

45.2. Capabilities and
                                -                                                           -         -         -         -
Limitations

45.3. Perform fault
isolation/troubleshoot          -                                                           -         -         -         -
system.

46. DIGITAL VOICE
RECORDING SYSTEM
(DVRS).
TR: Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) Order
6670.11A

46.1. Theory of
                                -                                                          B         B          -         -
Operations.

46.2. Capabilities and
                                -                                                          A         A          -         -
Limitations.

46.3. Perform fault
isolation/troubleshoot          -                                                          2b         -         -         -
system.

47. TOWER LIGHT GUN.
TR: Applicable TOs

47.1. Theory of Operation       -                                                           -         -         -         -

47.2. Capabilities and
                                -                                                           -         -         -         -
Limitation

47.3. Perform fault
isolation/troubleshoot          -                                                           -         -         -         -
system.

48. TRANSPORTABLE
SYSTEMS DEPLOYMENT
PROCEDURES.
TR: Applicable AFOSH
standards; TO 00-20
Series; Commercial
Manuals

48.1. Perform the
following functions to
establish deployed
communication services:




                                                        75                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                           STS 3D1X6


                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                              2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                              WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                                LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                               TASKS
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                          Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS

48.1.1. Inventory Unit
Type Code (UTC)                  -                                                          2b         -         -         -
equipment.

48.1.2. Finalize load plan.      -                                                          2b         -         -         -

48.2. Deploy TRN-41              -                                                          2b         -         -         -

48.3. Deploy TRC-176             -                                                          2b         -         -         -

49. AIR FORCE JOB
QUALIFICATION
STANDARDS
APPLICABLE TO AFSC
3D1X6.
TR: AFI 36-2233, 33-150,
MPTO 00-33A-1001-WA-1,
CFETP 3D1X6
49.1. AFJQS3D1X6-202N
AN/FMQ-13 Wind                   -                                                           -         -         -         -
Measuring Set
49.2. AFJQS3D1X6-204S
AN/TRN-26 Tactical Air           -                                                           -         -         -         -
Navigation (TACAN)
49.3. AFJQS3D1X6-
205GB AN/GRN-31 Null
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
Reference Glideslope
Maintenance
49.4. AFJQS3D1X6-
205GC AN/GRN-31
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
Capture Effect Glideslope
Maintenance
49.5. AFJQS3D1X6-
205GD AN/GRN-30                  -                                                           -         -         -         -
Localizer Maintenance
49.6. AFJQS3D1X6-205K
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
AN/TRN-41 TACAN
49.7. AFJQS3D1X6-205W
Enhanced Terminal Voice          -                                                           -         -         -         -
Switch
49.8. AFJQS3D1X6-205X
AN/MSN-7,                        -                                                           -         -         -         -
Communication Central
49.9. AFJQS3D1X6-206Q
AN/FMQ-12 Digital
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
Ionospheric Sounding
System
49.10. AFJQS 3D1X6-
209A AN/FMQ-19
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
Meteorological
Observation Station
49.11. AFJQS3D1X6-
215QA AN/FRN-45
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
Tactical Air Navigation
System (TACAN)




                                                         76                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                        STS 3D1X6


                                                                                        4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                               3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                           2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                               &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                          3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                           WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                             LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                            TASKS
                                     START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                       Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                     DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
49.12. AFJQS3D1X6-
215QB AN/FRN-44 Very
High Frequency                -                                                           -         -         -         -
Omnirange (VOR)
Maintenance
49.13. AFJQS3D1X6-
215R AN/TRN-45 Mobile
                              -                                                           -         -         -         -
Microwave Landing
System
49.14. AFQTP3D1X6-
203E ILS Training             -                                                           -         -         -         -
Handbook
50. AIR FORCE JOB
QUALIFICATION
STANDARDS
APPLICABLE TO 3D1XX
AFSCs.
TR: AFI 36-2233, 33-150,
MPTO 00-33A-1001-WA-1,
CFETP 3D1X6
50.1. AFJQS3D1XX-200F
Engineering Installation      -                                                           -         -         -         -
(EI) Team Chief
50.2. AFJQS3D1XX-201C
Corrosion Prevention and      5                                                           -         -         -         -
Control
50.3. AFJQS3D1XX-201P
Work Center Test              -                                                           -         -         -         -
Equipment Management
50.4. AFJQS3D1XX-201X
Engineering Installation      -                                                           -         -         -         -
(EI) Quality Assurance
50.5. AFJQS3D1XX-205Q
AN/GRT-21/22 VHF/UHF          -                                                           -         -         -         -
Transmitter
50.6. AFJQS3D1XX-205R
AN/GRR-23/24, VHF/UHF         -                                                           -         -         -         -
Receiver
50.7. AFJQS3D1XX-
205SA AN/GRC-171(V1,
AV1) UHF Transceiver and      -                                                           -         -         -         -
AN/GRC-211 VHF
Transceiver
50.8. AFJQS3D1XX-206C
Digital Voice Recorder        -                                                           -         -         -         -
System (DVRS)
50.9. AFJQS3D1XX-206F
RT-1319/URC, AN/PRC-
113, AN/TRC-176 and           -                                                           -         -         -         -
AN/VRC-83 Radio Set
Maintenance
50.10. AFJQS3D1XX-
206TB CU-547/GR               -                                                           -         -         -         -
ANTENNA COUPLER




                                                      77                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                                                        STS 3D1X6


                                                                                        4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                               3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                           2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                               &
AND TECHNICAL                                                                          3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                           WARTIME     A      B        C           D          E
REFERENCES                                                                             LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                            TASKS
                                     START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                       Course     CDC       OJT       OJT
                                     DATE    DATE    INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
50.11. AFQTP3D1XX-
200S Basic/Advance            -                                                           -         -         -         -
Soldiering
50.12. AFQTP3D1XX-
206M Introduction to          -                                                           -         -         -         -
Ionosphere Handbook
51. AIR FORCE JOB
QUALIFICATION
STANDARDS
APPLICABLE TO 3DXXX
AFSCs.
TR: AFI 36-2233, 33-150,
MPTO 00-33A-1001-WA-1,
CFETP 3D1X6
51.1. AFJQS3DXXX-200N
DoD 8570 IA Workforce         -                                                           -         -         -         -
Improvement Program
51.2. AFJQS3DXXX-
200TBA Training Business      5                                                           -         -         -         -
Area (TBA) Handbook
51.3. AFJQS3DXXX-201F
Communications Focal          -                                                           -         -         -         -
Point
51.4. AFJQS3DXXX-201G
                              -                                                           -         -         -         -
Quality Assurance
51.5. AFJQS3DXXX-213I
Military Construction         -                                                           -         -         -         -
Program
51.6. AFJQS3DXXX-230T
                              -                                                           -         -         -         -
Remedy
51.7. AFQTP3DXXX-
200D Integrated
                              5                                                           -         -         -         -
Maintenance Data System
Handbook
51.8. AFQTP3DXXX-202A
Electrostatic Discharge       5                                                           -         -         -         -
Handbook
51.9. AFQTP3DXXX-
213R Support Agreements
                              7                                                           -         -         -         -
and Administrative
Contract Management
51.10. AFQTP3DXXX-
232A Communications and
                              7                                                           -         -         -         -
Information Work Center
Supervisor's Handbook




                                                      78                                                     Attachment 2
Section B - Course Objective List
4. Measurement. Each objective is indicated as follows: W indicates task or subject knowledge which is
measured using a written test, PC indicates required task performance which is measured with a
performance progress check and PC/W indicates separate measurement of both knowledge and
performance elements using a written test and a progress check.

5. Standard. The standard is 70% on written examinations. Standards for performance measurement
are indicated in the objective and delineated on the individual progress checklist. Instructor assistance is
provided as needed during the progress check and students may be required to repeat all or part of the
behavior until satisfactory performance is attained.

6. Proficiency Level. Most task performance is taught to the “2b” proficiency level which means the
student can do most parts of the task, but does need assistance on the hardest parts of the task (partially
proficient). The student can also determine step by step procedures for doing the task.


Section C - Support Materials
7. The following list of support materials is not all-inclusive; however, it covers the most frequently
referenced areas. The most current products can be found at the 81st TRSS/TSQ web page and are
available for download from the web site at
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=20946. Procedures for requesting product
development are found in AFI 36-2233.


Section D - Training Course Index
8. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for continuation/
supplemental training. For information on all formal courses, refer to the Air Force Education and
Training Course Announcements (ETCA) database at https://etca.randolph.af.mil/

9. Air Force In-Residence Courses.

  Course Number                                    Course Title                           Location
E3AZR3D156 0B1A      AN/FRN-45 O/I Maintenance                                     Keesler
E3AZR3DXXX 00AA      C-E Maintenance Stan Eval Procedures                          Keesler
J8AZR3D157 0F5A      Fiber Optic Cable Installation, Splicing And Maintenance      Sheppard
J7AZR3D157 0C1A      Climbing Certifier Course                                     Sheppard
J7AZR3D157 0C0A      Climbing Training Course                                      Sheppard
J7AST3D157 0C1A      Climbing Certifier Course                                     Mobile Training Team
J7AST3D157 0C0A      Climbing Training Course                                      Mobile Training Team
E3AZR3DXXX 00DA      High reliability soldering and connections                    Keesler

10. Air University Courses.

For a current listing of Air University courses go to http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/.

11. Exportable Courses.

For a current list of the available CBT courses refer to https://www.my.af.mil/faf/FAF/fafHome.jsp (Under
IT E-Learning)




                                                           79
Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements
12. The following MAJCOM provided courses are available to support Airfield Systems training. They are
open to all active, reserve, and guard military and civilians.

   Course Title       MAJCOM      Unit        Location                               POC

ASOS Meteorological
Equipment Mx Class                                         ETC Tiffany Mallory email: tiffany.mallory1@navy.mil
                      AFWA     744 CS       Keesler
Course Number:                                             DSN 597-9573 Comm 228 377 9573
C-198-2010
Automated Surface                                          Mr. Bob Retzlaff Phone: (816) 994-3019 email:
Observing Set                                              robert.retzlaff@noaa.gov
(ASOS) Maintenance    AFDW     744 CS       Kansas City    Link to course info:
Course Number:                                             http://www.nwstc.noaa.gov/d.train/ASOS.HTML#S1003
S1003
Mark 20A Instrument                                        Mr. Richard Harbridge, 1 CMXS/SCOA, DSN 489-7450-
                      USAFE    1 CMXS       Ramstein
Landing System                                             6921
AN/FRN-44 Very High
                                                           Mr. Rittenberry, DSN 487-2411
Frequency Omni-       AETC     CSS          Randolph
                                                           mark.rittenberry@randolph.af.mil
Range
AN/FRN-45 Tactical                                         Mr. Rittenberry, DSN 487-2411
                      AETC     CSS          Randolph
Air Navigation                                             mark.rittenberry@randolph.af.mil
AN/GRN-29
                                                           Mr. Rittenberry, DSN 487-2411
Instrument Landing    AETC     CSS          Randolph
                                                           mark.rittenberry@randolph.af.mil
System
AN/FRN-45 Tactical                                         Ms. Pugh, DSN 574-5349
                      ACC      A6OA         Langley
Air Navigation                                             Pamela.pugh@langley.af.mil
AN/GRN-29
                                                           Ms. Pugh, DSN 574-5349
Instrument Landing    ACC      A6OA         Langley
                                                           Pamela.pugh@langley.af.mil
System
AN/FSC-127
                                                           Ms. Pugh, DSN 574-5349
Enhanced Terminal     ACC      A6OA         Langley
                                                           Pamela.pugh@langley.af.mil
Voice System
AN/GSH-72 Digital
                                                           Ms. Pugh, DSN 574-5349
Voice Recording       ACC      A6OA         Langley
                                                           Pamela.pugh@langley.af.mil
System
                                                           Mr. John Pietrzak
AN/FMQ-7 Maintainer                                        AFWA 2 WS, Det 4/DN
                               2 WS,
Course                AFWA                  Holloman AFB   1441 Observatory Road
                               Det 4
                                                           Holloman AFB, NM 88330
                                                           DSN 572-3461
                                                           Mr. Daniel Holmes
AN/FRR-95 and Solar                                        AFWA 2WS, Det 2
                               2WS, Det 2
Radio Spectrograph    AFWA                  Hamilton, MA   305 Sagamore Street
Maintainer Course                                          Hamilton MA 01982
                                                           DSN 478-4602; Comm 781 377-4600




                                                      80
