DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                             CFETP 2A7X2
Headquarters US Air Force                                                     Parts I-II
Washington, DC 20330-1480                                                 1 JULY 2013



                           AFSC 2A7X2

    NONDESTRUCTIVE INSPECTION




       CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
         AND TRAINING PLAN
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
BLANK PAGE
                                                                                                        CFETP 2A7X2, 1 July 2013

                           CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                             NONDESTRUCTIVE INSPECTION SPECIALTY
                                          AFSC 2A7X2
                                      TABLE OF CONTENTS
Title                                                                                                                                   Page

PART I
Preface..........................................................................................................................................1
Abbreviations/Terms Explained ..................................................................................................2

Section A – General Information ................................................................................................5
     Purpose of the CFETP
     Use of the CFETP
     Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B – Career Progression and Information ........................................................................6
     Specialty Description
     Skill/Career Progression
            Apprentice (3) Level
            Journeyman (5) Level
            Craftsman (7) Level
            Superintendent (9) Level
     Training Decisions
     Community College of the Air Force
     Career Field Path

Section C – Skill Level Training Requirements..........................................................................13
     Purpose
     Specialty Qualification
            Apprentice Level Training
            Journeyman Level Training
            Craftsman Level Training
            Superintendent Level Training
Section D – Resource Constraints ...............................................................................................15
Section E – Transitional Training Guide.....................................................................................16

PART II
Section A – Course Objective List ..............................................................................................17
Section B – Support Material ......................................................................................................17
Section C – Training Course Index .............................................................................................18
Section D – MAJCOM Unique Requirements ............................................................................19
Section E – Specialty Training Standard.....................................................................................19
________________________
Supersedes: CFETP 2A7X2, 1 October 2010
OPR: 359 TRS Det 1/TRR
Certified by: HQ USAF/A4LF (CMSgt Michael Healy)
Number of Printed Pages: 41




                                                                          i
                                                                   CFETP 2A7X2, 1 July 2013

                  CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                    NONDESTRUCTIVE INSPECTION SPECIALTY
                                 AFSC 2A7X2

PART I

Preface

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for the 2A7X2, Nondestructive Inspection,
specialty. The CFETP will provide personnel a clear career path to success and instill rigor in all
aspects of career field training. To read, review, or print a copy of the CFETP, go to e Pubs.

http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/

The CFETP consists of two parts. Supervisors will use both parts to plan, manage, and control
training.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C
associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, training, and other).
Section D indicates resource constraints to accomplishing this plan, such as funds, manpower,
equipment, and facilities. Section E identifies transition training guide requirements for SSgt
through MSgt.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A contains the course objective list and training
standards supervisors will use to determine if Airmen have satisfied training requirements.
Section B identifies available support materials, such as Qualification Training Package (QTP)
which may be developed to support proficiency training. Section C identifies a training course
index that supervisors can use to determine if resources are available to support training.
Included here are both mandatory and optional courses. Section D identifies MAJCOM unique
training requirements supervisors can use to determine additional training required for the
associated qualification needs. Section E identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and
includes duties, tasks, technical references to support training; Air Education and Training
Command (AETC) conducted training, wartime course/core task and correspondence course
requirements. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and
conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive
effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their career.




                                                 1
                                                                      CFETP 2A7X2, 1 July 2013




ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training (AT). Formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in one
or more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance
their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career Airmen at the advanced level of
the AFS.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a
particular job type or duty position. Supervisors use the AFJQS to document task qualifications.
The tasks of AFJQS are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive,
multipurpose document covering the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field.
It outlines a logical growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career
field training identifiable, to eliminate duplication, and to ensure this training is budget
defensible.

Certification. A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required
standards.

Certification Official (3rd Party Certifier). A person the commander assigns to determine an
individual’s ability to perform a task to required standards.

Continuation Training. This is additional training that exceeds minimum upgrade requirements
and has an emphasis on present or future duty assignments.

Contract Training. Training that receives the same priority funding as Air Force directed
training. It supports initial groups of instructors, operators, etc., that the Air Force requires for
new or modified weapon systems.

Core Task. A task that the Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) identifies as minimum
qualification requirements within an Air Force Specialty regardless of duty position. Only a
percentage of critical tasks for each system are listed as mandatory core tasks. This gives units
needed flexibility to manage their workforce training.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements
and respective standards provided to achieve a 3-7 skill level in this career field. Supervisors use
the COL to assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Air Force
Training Program.

Course Training Standard (CTS). Training standard that identifies the training members will
receive in a specific course not covered in the CFETP.



                                                   2
                                                                   CFETP 2A7X2, 1 July 2013

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video,
or other necessary means to supplement training.

Field or Mobile Technical Training. Special or regular on-site training conducted by a training
detachment (TD) or by a mobile training team (MTT).

Initial Skills Training (IST). A formal school course that results in the award of a 3-skill level
AFSC.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly process for developing,
validating, and reviewing instructional programs that ensures personnel are taught the knowledge
and skills essential for successful job performance.

MAJCOM Mandatory Course Listing (MMCL). Identifies mandatory maintenance training
requirements for initial technical school graduates, retrainees, and personnel with no experience
on assigned mission design series (MDS) aircraft. It also ensures maintenance personnel receive
training commensurate to their current duty position.

Mission Design Series (MDS). Aircraft (i.e., A-10, F-16, C-130).

Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). A detailed report showing the results of an
occupational survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training at the duty location used to
train personnel for both skill level upgrade and duty position qualification.

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an
Airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the
upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skill/knowledge training
required to do the job.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional package designed for use at the unit
to qualify or aid qualification in a duty position or program or on a piece of equipment. It may
be printed, computer based, or in other audiovisual media.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, or
equipment, that preclude desired training from being accomplished.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force
Specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge an Airman may be expected to perform or to know on
the job. It serves as a contract between AETC and the functional user to show which of the
overall training requirements for an AFSC are taught in formal schools, Career Development
Courses, and exportable courses.


                                                 3
                                                              CFETP 2A7X2, 1 July 2013

Training by Other Government Agencies. This training includes training conducted by the
Army, Navy, Air Force agency or unit other than AETC, and other government agencies inside
or outside of the Department of Defense (DoD).

Upgrade Training (UGT). A mixture of mandatory courses, task qualification, and CDCs
required for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, or 9-skill levels.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum, co-chaired by the AFCFM and
Training Pipeline Manager, of MAJCOM Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) functional
managers, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training personnel that determines career
ladder training requirements.

Web Site Links:

ADLS       https://golearn.csd.disa.mil/kc/login/login.asp
CCAF       http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/
CAF        https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-TE-AC-42
MCL
ETCA       https://etca.randolph.af.mil/
HQ         https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-LG-AF-35
USAF/A4
LF
MAF        https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/docman/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&FolderID=OO-ED-
MCL        AM-91-2&Filter=OO-ED-AM-91
367 TRS    https://367trss.hill.af.mil
982        https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
MXS/LG     af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?command=org&channelPageId=s6925EC134F0A0FB5E
MS         044080020E329A9




                                             4
                                                                    CFETP 2A7X2, 1 July 2013

Section A - General Information

1. Purpose of the CFETP. This CFETP provides the information necessary for Air Force
Career Field Manager (AFCFM), MAJCOM functional managers (MFMs), commanders,
training managers, supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective
career field training program. This plan outlines the training that individuals in AFSC 2A7X2
should receive to develop and progress throughout their career. This CFETP identifies initial
skill, upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency training. Initial skills training is the
AFSC specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon retraining
into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. This training is conducted by AETC at Naval
Air Station (NAS) Pensacola, FL. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task
qualification requirements, and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the
3-, 5-, 7-, 9-skill levels. Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training
designed to qualify an Airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both
during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance
skills/knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training is formal specialty training used for
selected Airmen. Proficiency training is additional training, either in-residence or exportable
advanced training courses, or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills
and knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP has several purposes,
such as:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field training
program. Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an
individual’s career.

1.2. Identifies tasks and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual's career.

1.3. Lists training courses that are available in the specialty and identifies sources of training and
the training delivery method.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints which impact full implementation of the desired career
field training process.

2. Use of the CFETP. This plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure
comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop or revise formal resident, non-resident, Training
Detachment (TD), and exportable training based upon requirements established by the users and
documented in Part II of the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop
acquisition strategies for obtaining the resources needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial,
upgrade, and proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, contract training, or exportable
courses can satisfy these identified requirements. MAJCOM developed training, to support this



                                                  5
                                                                   CFETP 2A7X2, 1 July 2013

AFSC, must be identified for inclusion in this plan and must not duplicate other available
training resources.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan.
The list of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP. The AFCFM is the approval authority. The
AETC training manager for AFSC 2A7X2 will initiate an annual review of this document by
AETC and MFM to ensure currency and accuracy. The using MAJCOM representatives and
AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field training requirements.
Use the list of courses in Part II to eliminate duplicate training.

Section B - Career Progression and Information

4. Specialty Description.

4.1. Specialty Summary. Refer to Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD),
paragraph 1. Nondestructive inspection is a process technique used to evaluate the integrity of a
material component or structure without damaging or impairing its serviceability. Inspects
aircraft components and support equipment for structural integrity using nondestructive
inspection methods and analyzes engine oil for wear metal debris. Related DoD Occupational
Subgroup: 176000

4.2. Duties and Responsibilities. Refer to Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory
(AFECD) https://gum-crm.csd.disa.mil/app/home , and enter search key word “AFECD”.

4.2.1. Determines NDI test methods using applicable technical orders; prepares parts for
inspection; interprets and evaluates indications on aircraft and support equipment using magnetic
particle, ultrasonic, eddy current, radiographic, liquid penetrant and other emerging technologies.
Prepares engine samples for wear metal analysis and evaluates test results. Handles, labels and
disposes of hazardous materials and waste according to federal, state and local environmental
standards.

4.2.2. Plans and schedules NDI activities. Interprets technical publications and inspection results
to resolve problems on aircraft systems and support equipment. Establishes priorities for
completion of maintenance tasks and provides assistance in solving maintenance, supply and
personnel issues. Provides training, feedback and task qualification for skill level advancement.
Establishes performance standards and improves work methods. Supervises and evaluates job
performance and maintenance techniques. Ensures maintenance and safety policy compliance
for all NDI activities. Maintains and documents equipment, supply, certification, training, and
aircraft forms. Evaluates requirements and prepares quality deficiency reports.

4.2.3. Plans, organizes, and directs aircraft fabrication maintenance activities. Manages
maintenance and staff functions for NDI, aircraft metals technology, aircraft structural
maintenance and low observable aircraft structural maintenance. Establishes production
controls. Interprets directives and publications pertaining to fabrication maintenance. Analyzes

                                                 6
                                                                   CFETP 2A7X2, 1 July 2013

maintenance management reports. Interprets and evaluates directives and publications,
inspection findings, records, and reports to recommend corrective actions. Establishes safety and
training guidelines. Plans, organizes, directs and controls troubleshooting and repair activities of
fabrication personnel. Manages and controls fabrication flight resources including personnel
facilities, funds, supplies and equipment. Manages handling, labeling, and disposal of hazardous
materials and waste according to federal, state and local environmental standards.


5. Skill/Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to
the superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force’s ability to accomplish its
mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training do their part to plan, manage, and
conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will
ensure each individual receives necessary training at appropriate points in their career. The
following narrative and AFSC 2A7X2 career field table identify the skill/career progression.

5.1. Apprentice (3) Level. Following Basic Military Training, initial skills training will be
provided in a resident course at 359th Training Squadron, Detachment 1, Naval Air Station,
Pensacola, Florida. Upon completion of this initial-skills course, graduates are awarded the 3-
skill level (AFSC 2A732). The course provides a foundation for additional training at the
graduate's first duty assignment where trainees work with a trainer to increase knowledge and
skills. Trainees utilize the career development course (CDC), task qualification training, and
other exportable courses to progress in their career field. Once the trainee has met all
requirements for the task, the trainee may perform the task unsupervised.

5.2. Journeyman (5) Level. Upgrade training to the 5-skill level includes task and knowledge
training. After award of the 3-skill level, trainees are enrolled in 5-level CDC. Additionally,
trainees must complete 5-skill level, upgrade training requirements (core tasks) identified in the
STS. Once upgraded to the 5-level, the journeyman will enter into continuation training to
broaden their experience base by increasing their knowledge and skill in troubleshooting and
solving more complex problems. Five-levels will be considered for appointment as unit trainers.
Individuals will use their CDCs to prepare for Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS)
testing. They should also consider continuing their education toward a Community College of
the Air Force (CCAF) degree.

5.3. Craftsman (7) Level. For award of the 7-skill level, an individual must successfully
complete all required 7-level training identified in this CFETP and meet 7-level minimum
upgrade requirements in AFI 36-2101 Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted) and
Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD). Completion of CDC 2AX7X, Aerospace
Maintenance Craftsman Course is required for 7-level upgrade. Exportable MDS specific
courses and MAJCOM/unit directed courses are also available. A 7-level should take courses or
obtain added knowledge in management of resources and personnel. Continued academic
education through CCAF and higher degree programs is encouraged.

5.4. Superintendent (9) Level. For award of the 9-skill level, individuals must hold the rank of
SMSgt. A 9-level can be expected to fill positions such as flight chief, production supervisor,
and various staff NCOIC jobs. Additional training in the areas of budget, manpower, resources,

                                                 7
                                                                    CFETP 2A7X2, 1 July 2013

and personnel management should be pursued through continuing education. Additional higher
education and completion of courses outside their career AFSC is also recommended.

6. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Nondestructive Inspection career
field. The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet these training
requirements. The strategy must ensure we develop affordable training, eliminate duplication,
and prevent a fragmented approach to training. The following training decisions were made at
the career field utilization and training workshop held at Naval Air Station, Pensacola, Florida
from 25-28 Feb 2013.

6.1. Core Tasks. During the review of the CFETP, 5-level core tasks were reduced from sixty
to forty nine and 7-level core tasks remain at six. 33 additional tasks will require Third Party
Certification for 5-levels and two additional tasks will require Third Party Certification at the 7-
skill level. Third Party Certification items are identified by a bold border around the core task
asterisk.

6.2. Initial Skills. The decision was made to eliminate the training requirement for Career Field
Progression, Duties of the AFSC, Levels of Maintenance, and Inspection Systems. Training was
reduced for Film Selection and Fundamentals of data automation. Additions included
Maintenance Resource Management (MRM), Use microscope and magnifier, inspect parts using
through-transmission and pulse methods, and corrosion identification. Time savings were
applied to Eddy Current (2hrs), Basic metallurgy (2 hrs.) and fundamentals of ultrasonics (1 hr.).
These changes will result in only minor changes to the apprentice course.

6.3. Supplemental Courses. Ultrasonic and Impedance Plane Inspection course was reviewed
and meets requirements. No changes were recommended.

6.4. Five Level CDCs. All four 2A752 volumes were reviewed and minor changes will be
necessary.

6.5. Seven-Level Upgrade Requirements. No Seven-Level Upgrade Requirements were
changed.

6.6. Continuation Training. Any additional knowledge and skill requirements that were not
taught through initial or upgrade training are assigned to unit training or Training Detachments.
The purpose of the continuation training program is to provide additional training exceeding
minimum upgrade training requirements with emphasis on present and future duty position.
MAJCOMs develop a proficiency training program that ensures individuals in the
Nondestructive Inspection career field receive the necessary training at the appropriate point in
their career. The program identifies both mandatory and optional training requirements.




                                                  8
                                                                                          CFETP 2A7X2, 1 July 2013

7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). CCAF is one of several federally chartered
degree-granting institutions and the only 2-year institution serving only military enlisted
personnel. The college is a multi-campus institution and is regionally accredited through Air
University by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools
(SACS) to award AAS degrees designed for specific Air Force occupational specialties. The
college offers 68 technical degree programs serving more than 321,000 students at more than
100 worldwide affiliated technical training schools. Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon
completion of basic military training. CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate in
Applied Sciences technical degree.

7.1. CCAF Degree Requirements. All enlisted airmen are automatically entered into the
CCAF program. Prior to completing an associate degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the
following requirements must be met:

                                                                                                   Semester Hours

       Technical Education...................................................................................24
       Leadership, Management, and Military Studies ..........................................6
       Physical Education .......................................................................................4
       General Education ......................................................................................15
       Program Elective ........................................................................................15
                                                                                                     Total: 64

7.1.1. Technical Education. (24 Semester Hours): Completion of the career field apprentice
course satisfies some semester hours of the technical education requirements. A minimum of 24
semester hours of Technical Core subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining semester
hours applied from Technical Core/Technical Elective courses.

7.1.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies. (6 Semester Hours): Enlisted
Professional Military Education (EPME) and/or civilian management courses.

7.1.3. Physical Education. (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of
Basic Military Training.

7.1.4. General Education. (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement with
the definitions of applicable General Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF
General Catalog.

7.1.5. Program Elective. (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects/courses, including
natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Six semester hours of CCAF degree
applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied. See the
CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science for this specialty.

7.2. Professional Certifications. Certifications assist the professional development of our
Airmen by broadening their knowledge and skills. Additionally, specific certifications may be
award collegiate credit by CCAF and civilian colleges, saving time and Air Force tuition

                                                                9
                                                                    CFETP 2A7X2, 1 July 2013

assistance funds. It also helps airmen to be better prepared for transition to civilian life. To learn
more about professional certifications and certification programs offered by CCAF, visit
http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp. In addition to its associate degree program,
CCAF offers the following certification programs and resources:

7.2.1. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Airframe and Powerplant (A&P)
Certification. Air Force aircraft maintenance technicians are eligible to pursue FAA A&P
certification based on training and experience in accordance with Federal Aviation Regulation
Part 65. The DoD established the Joint Service Aviation Maintenance Technician Certification
Council (JSAMTCC) to standardize the eligibility and certification process for the military and
provide direction and resources necessary to fill the gaps within military training and experience.
Completing the Air Force A&P Certification Program, managed by CCAF, will fill training and
experience gaps, ensuring FAA eligibility. The program consists of three Air University Online
A&P Specialized Courses, OJT and experience requirements contained in a Qualification
Training Package (QTP). Technicians may enroll in the program once they have been awarded
the 5-skill level. To learn more, visit CCAF at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp.
CCAF awards 30 semester hours for FAA A&P certification and 18 semester hours for FAA
Airframe or Powerplant certification.

7.2.2. SpaceTEC Aerospace Technician Certification. Air Force aircraft maintenance
technicians are eligible to pursue SpaceTEC Aerospace Technician certification based on
aviation training and experience. SpaceTEC certification is endorsed by NASA and the
Aerospace industry. Air University Online offers a Specialized Course to assist technicians
prepare for the Aerospace Technician certification exams. To learn more, visit SpaceTEC at
http://www.spacetec.org/ or CCAF at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp. CCAF
awards 25 semester hours for the SpaceTEC Aerospace Technician certification.

7.2.3. CCAF Instructor Certification (CIC) Program. CCAF offers the three-tiered CIC
Program for qualified instructors teaching at CCAF affiliated schools who have demonstrated a
high level of professional accomplishment. The CIC is a professional credential that recognizes
the instructor's extensive faculty development training, education and qualification required to
teach a CCAF course, and formally acknowledges the instructor's practical teaching experience.

7.2.4. CCAF Instructional Systems Development (ISD) Certification Program. CCAF
offers the ISD Certification Program for qualified curriculum developers and managers who are
formally assigned at CCAF affiliated schools to develop and manage CCAF collegiate courses.
The ISD Certification is a professional credential that recognizes the curriculum developer’s or
manager’s extensive training, education, qualifications and experience required to develop and
manage CCAF courses. The certification also recognizes the individual’s ISD qualifications and
experience in planning, developing, implementing and managing instructional systems.

 7.2.5. CCAF Professional Manager Certification (PMC). CCAF offers the PMC Program
for qualified Air Force NCO’s. The PMC is a professional credential awarded by CCAF that
formally recognizes an individual’s advanced level of education and experience in leadership and
management, as well as professional accomplishments. The program provides a structured
professional development track that supplements Enlisted Professional Military Education
(EPME) and Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP).

                                                 10
                                                                  CFETP 2A7X2, 1 July 2013

7.2.6. CCAF Credentialing and Education Research Tool (CERT). CCAF implemented
CERT to increase awareness of professional development opportunities applicable to Air Force
occupational specialties. It is a valuable resource for Air Force enlisted personnel and provides
information related to specific AFSCs, such as: AFSC description; civilian occupation
equivalencies (US Department of Labor); CCAF degree programs; national professional
certifications; certifying agencies; and professional organizations.

7.2.7. Air Education and Training Command (AETC) Instructor Requirements.
Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is encouraged for all. Individuals desiring
to become an AETC instructor should be actively pursuing an associate degree. A degreed
faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges and
Schools.




                                                11
                                                                            CFETP 2A7X2, 1 July 2013

8. Career Field Path

8.1. Enlisted Career Path. Table 8.1 identifies career milestones for the 2A7X2 AFSC.
                                    Table 8.1 Enlisted Career Path
                                                   Grade Requirements
Education and Training Requirements                Rank     Average                Earliest        High Year
                                                            Sew-On                 Sew-On          Of Tenure
Basic Military Training School
Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)        Amn          6 months
                                                   A1C          16 months
Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level)              Amn          6 months
- Minimum 12 months OJT                            A1C          16 months          22 months
- Minimum 9 months OJT for retrainees              SrA          3 years            BTZ             8 years
- Complete all 5-level core tasks                                                  28 months
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when available
Airman Leadership School (ALS)                     Trainer
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service     -Trained and qualified to perform the task to be trained
  or be a SSgt Selectee.                           -Must attend the Air Force Training Course (AFTC)
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt   Certifier
                                                   -Minimum rank of SSgt with a 5-skill level, or civilian
  sew-on (Active Duty Only).
                                                   equivalent, capable of evaluating the task being certified,
                                                   and have completed the AFTC.
Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)               SSgt         4.5 years          3 years         15 years
- Minimum rank of SSgt
- Minimum 12 Months OJT
- Minimum 6 Months OJT for retrainees
- Complete all 5- and 7-level core tasks
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when available
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)             TSgt         9.7 years          5 years         20 years
- Must be a TSgt, MSgt Selectee, or MSgt           MSgt         15.9 years         8 years         24 years
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt
  sew-on (Active Duty Only)
Upgrade to Superintendent (9-Skill Level)          SMSgt        19.5 years         11 years        26 years
- Minimum rank of SMSgt

USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)
- Must be a MSgt, SMSgt, or SMSgt Selectee
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
  SMSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only)
Chief Enlisted Manger (CEM)                        CMSgt        22.8 years         14 years        30 years




                                                    12
                                                                   CFETP 2A7X2, 1 July 2013

Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements

9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in the 2A7X2 career field are defined in terms of
tasks and knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements
for each skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry,
award, and retention of each skill level. The specific tasks and knowledge training requirements
are identified in Part II, Section E, Specialty Training Standard (STS).

10. Specialty Qualification Requirements. The various skill levels in this career field are
defined in terms of tasks and knowledge proficiency requirements for each skill level. They are
stated in broad general terms and establish the standards of performance. Unit work centers must
develop a structured training program to ensure the following requirements are met.

10.1. Apprentice Level Training:

10.1.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is located in the official specialty description
in Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), paragraph 3.

10.1.1.1. Knowledge. To perform duties at the 3-skill level, an individual must possess basic
knowledge of the following: characteristics of metal identification; wear metals identification
and content; metal discontinuity and flaw detection; operation and maintenance of
nondestructive test and oil analysis equipment; safety directives and practices; radiological safety
and radiation monitoring procedures; technical orders and directives; and proper handling, use,
and disposal of hazardous waste and materials IAW applicable federal, state and local directives.

10.1.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school with courses in
mathematics, chemistry, industrial technology, physics, and shop is desirable. Also, completion
of computer knowledge courses is desirable.

10.1.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2A732, completion of the Nondestructive Inspection
Apprentice course is mandatory.

10.1.1.4. Experience. None.

10.1.2. Training Sources and Resources. The initial skills course will provide the required
knowledge, qualification, and, if applicable, certification.

10.1.3. Implementation. Upon graduation from Basic Military Training (BMT), completion of
the Nondestructive Inspection Apprentice course is mandatory. This course satisfies the
knowledge and training resource requirements for award of the 3-skill level.

10.2. Journeyman Level Training:

10.2.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is located in the official specialty description
in Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), paragraph 3.



                                                13
                                                                  CFETP 2A7X2, 1 July 2013

10.2.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to the 3-level qualifications, a 5-skill level must be able to
understand and apply knowledge of the following: characteristics of metals identification; wear
metals identification and content; metal discontinuity and flaw detection; operation and
maintenance of nondestructive test and oil analysis equipment; safety directives and practices;
radiological safety and radiation monitoring procedures; technical orders and directives; and
proper handling, use, and disposal of hazardous waste and materials IAW applicable federal,
state and local directives.

10.2.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for
the apprentice level. However, completion of a CCAF degree is desirable.

10.2.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2A752, the 5-level CDC provides the career knowledge
training required. Qualification training and OJT will provide training and qualification on the
core tasks identified in the STS. The CDC is written to build from the trainee's current
knowledge base, and provides more in-depth knowledge to support OJT requirements.

10.2.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A732. Also, experience in
flaw detection process controls, equipment calibration and maintenance, safety directives, and
hazardous waste and materials. Completion of all 5-level core tasks identified in the STS is
mandatory.

10.2.2. Training Sources and Resources. A minimum of 12 months (9 months for retrainees)
on-the-job training, completion of the 2A752 CDC, and completion of the 5-level core tasks
represent the resources needed for award of the 5-skill level.

10.2.3. Implementation. Training to the 5-level is performed by the units utilizing this STS,
exportable courses, and CDCs. Upgrade to the 5-level requires completion of CDC 2A752,
completion of all core tasks, and 12 months upgrade training.

10.3. Craftsman Level Training:

10.3.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is located in the official specialty description
in Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), paragraph 3.

10.3.1.1. Knowledge. A 7-level must possess advanced skills and knowledge of the following:
characteristics of metals identification; wear metals identification and content; metal
discontinuity and flaw detection; operation and maintenance of nondestructive test and oil
analysis equipment; safety directives and practices; radiological safety and radiation monitoring
procedures; technical orders and directives; and proper handling, use, and disposal of hazardous
waste and materials IAW applicable federal, state and local directives.

10.3.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for
the apprentice level. However, completion of a CCAF degree is desirable.

10.3.1.3. Training. Completion of the mandatory 2AX7X CDC and 7-level core tasks is
mandatory for upgrade to 2A772.

                                                14
                                                                   CFETP 2A7X2, 1 July 2013


10.3.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A752. Completion of all 5-
and 7-level core tasks identified in the STS is mandatory.

10.3.2. Training Sources and Resources. A minimum of 12 months (6 months for retrainees)
on-the-job training, completion of CDC 2AX7X, and -5 and -7 level core tasks represent the
resources required for award of the 7-skill level.

10.3.3. Implementation. Upgrade to the 7-level will require completion of all AF core tasks,
12 months OJT and 7-level 2AX7X CDC.

10.4. Superintendent Level Training:

10.4.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is located in the official specialty description
in Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), paragraph 3.

10.4.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge of the following is mandatory: aircraft structural
maintenance, low observable aircraft structural maintenance, metals technology, and
nondestructive inspection methods; maintenance data reporting; and proper handling, storage,
use, and disposal of hazardous waste and materials IAW applicable federal, state and local
directives.

10.4.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for
the apprentice level. However, completion of a CCAF degree is desirable.

10.4.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2A790, promotion to SMSgt is mandatory.

10.4.1.4. Experience. For award of AFSC 2A790, qualification in and possession of AFSC
2A771, 2A772, 2A773, or 2A775 is mandatory. Also, experience is mandatory managing
aircraft structural maintenance, low observable aircraft structural maintenance, aircraft metals
technology, corrosion control or nondestructive inspection specialties and functions.

10.4.2. Training Sources and Resources. None.

10.4.3. Implementation. The 9-level will be awarded after promotion to SMSgt.

Section D - Resource Constraints

11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints that preclude optimal/desired
training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower.
Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what
effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section are actions
required, office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource constraints will
be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

12. Three-Level Training: No 3-level resource constraints were identified by the U&TW.

                                                15
                                                                CFETP 2A7X2, 1 July 2013


13. Five-Level Training: No 5-level resource constraints were identified by the U&TW.

14. Seven-Level Training: No 7-level resource constraints were identified by the U&TW.

Section E - Transitional Training Guide. There are no transition training requirements. This
area is reserved.




                                              16
                                                                  CFETP 2A7X2, 1 July 2013

PART II

Section A - Course Objective List

1. Measurement. Each proficiency coded STS task or knowledge item taught at the technical
school is measured through the use of an objective. An objective is a written instruction for
students so they know what is expected of them to successfully complete training on each task.
Each objective is comprised of a condition, behavior, and standard that states what is expected of
the student for each task. The condition is the setting in which the training takes place. The
behavior is the action a student must demonstrate to accomplish a task (i.e. remove and install
wheel and tire assembly). The standard is the level of performance that is measured to ensure the
STS proficiency code level is attained. Each objective uses letter code(s) to identify how it is
measured. All objectives use the PC code that indicates a progress check is used to measure
subject or task knowledge. Progress checks are also used to measure student accomplishment of
performance objectives. W indicates a comprehensive written test and is used to measure the
subject and/or task knowledge at the end of a block of instruction. PC/W indicates separate
measurement of both knowledge and performance elements using a written test and a
performance progress check.

2. Standard. The minimum standard is 70% on written examinations. Standards for
performance measurement are indicated in the objective and delineated on the individual’s
progress checklist. The checklist is used by the instructor to document each student’s progress
on each task. Instructor assistance is provided as needed during the progress check, and students
may be required to repeat all or part of the behavior until satisfactory performance is attained.
Students must satisfactorily complete all PCs prior to taking the written test.

3. Proficiency Level. Most task performance is taught to the "2b" or "3c" proficiency level.
The "2b" means the student can do most parts of the task, but does need assistance on the
hardest parts of the task (partially proficient). The student can also determine step-by-step
procedures for doing the task. The "3c" means the student can do all parts of the task but may
need a spot check of completed work (competent). The student should be able to identify why
and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.

4. Course Objectives. If you require detailed course descriptions and objectives, please provide
a written request to the AETC Training Manager, 359 TRS Det 1, 230 Chevalier Field Ave, NAS
Pensacola FL 32508-5142.

Section B - Support Material

5. The following list of support material is not all inclusive; however, it covers the most
frequently referenced areas. Support material is any training package designed to enhance the
learning process at any level of training. Refer to the Air Force Education and Training Course
Announcements (ETCA) for information on AETC formal courses. ETCA can be accessed at
https://etca.randolph.af.mil.




                                               17
                                                                 CFETP 2A7X2, 1 July 2013

5.1. Interactive Courseware (ICW) courses are available from (or under development by)
367 TRS/TRSS, Hill AFB, Utah. Their course catalog is available on the Internet at
https://367trss.hill.af.mil. Questions should be referred to the customer service number at DSN
586-4014

5.2. The Air Force NDI Office is the central point of contact for the NDI community. This
information can be found at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?channelPageId=s6925EC1338750FB5E044080020E329A9 .

Section C - Training Course Index

6. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies Air Force resident, Air Force Institute for
Advanced Distributed Learning (ADLS), and exportable courses used to support training for the
2A7X2 Nondestructive Inspection specialty. Refer to the Air Force Education and Training
Course Announcements (ETCA) https://etca.randolph.af.mil/ for information on AETC formal
courses listed below. For further information on the following courses, contact the OPR at:

       359 TRS Det 1/TRR
       230 Chevalier Field Ave
       NAS Pensacola, FL 32580-2142
       DSN 459-7477

7. Air Force In-Resident Courses:

COURSE NUMBER            COURSE TITLE                                         OPR
JCABP2A732 048B          Nondestructive Inspection Apprentice                 359 TRS Det 1
JCAZP2A752 0U1A          Ultrasonic Inspection and Impedance Plane            359 TRS Det 1
                         Analysis

8. Air Force Advanced Distributed Learning Service (ADLS) Courses:

COURSE NUMBER            COURSE TITLE                                         OPR
CDC 2A752                Nondestructive Inspection Journeyman                 359 TRS Det 1
CDC 2AX7X                Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman                      362 TRS


9. Exportable Courses.

COURSE NUMBER            COURSE TITLE                                         OPR
J6AZW2AXXX 0Q1A Quality Assurance Aircraft                                    362 TRS




                                               18
                                                                 CFETP 2A7X2, 1 July 2013

For further information contact the OPR at:
  362 TRS
  613 10th Avenue
  Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2352
  DSN 736-1825

Interactive Courseware (ICW) courses are available from or are under development by
367 TRS/TRSS at Hill AFB, Utah and 982 MXS/LGMS at Sheppard AFB, Texas.

For further information contact the OPRs at:

  367 TRS/TRSS                       982 MXS/LGMS
  6058 Aspen Ave                     912 I Ave Ste 4
  Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805            Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2334
  DSN 586-4014                       DSN 736-3834
  https://367trss.hill.af.mil        https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
                                     af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?command=org&channelPageId
                                     =s6925EC134F0A0FB5E044080020E329A9


Section D- MAJCOM Unique Requirements.

10. For MAJCOM-unique requirements, refer to the following web sites:

Combat Air Force (CAF):
                    https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-TE-AC-42

Mobility Air Force (MAF):
                     https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/docman/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&FolderID
                     =OO-ED-AM-91-2&Filter=OO-ED-AM-91

Air Education and Training Command (AETC)/A4M CoP:
                     https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/CoP/EntryCoP.asp?Filter=AE-
                     ED-03-50

Section E - Specialty Training Standard

11. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by Air Education
and Training Command for the apprentice class beginning 4 Oct 2013 and graduating 16 Dec
2013.

12. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:

12.1. Lists in column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common tasks,
knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for Airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-,
and 7-skill level.

                                               19
                                                                   CFETP 2A7X2, 1 July 2013


12.2. Identifies in column 2 (Core Tasks) by asterisk (*), specialty-wide training requirements.
MAJCOM Functional Managers, commanders, and supervisors may designate additional critical
tasks as necessary. When designated, certify these core tasks using normal core task certification
procedures. AFCFM has identified 36 tasks that require third-party certification. These
tasks are identified with a bold border around the core task asterisk. Exemptions:

12.2.1. Core tasks which are not applicable to base assigned aircraft or equipment are not
required for upgrade (units are not required to send personnel TDY for core task training). Note:
Five-levels can be qualified on 7-level core tasks at any point of the career ladder.

12.2.2. For units with more than one mission design (e.g. A-10, C-130) aircraft, upgrade trainees
need only complete core tasks on a single mission design. MFMs, unit commanders, and/or
supervisors may require trainees to complete core task training on additional mission design
aircraft, if desired. If some of these core tasks involve training in another unit on base, trainees
must still complete all core tasks relevant to at least one mission design aircraft.
Flightline-assigned personnel must complete backshop core tasks and vice versa.

12.2.3. Unit’s that use the GO81 maintenance data collection system do not need to complete
IMDS Computer Based Training (CBT) core tasks. However, these units must be capable of
training IMDS related CBT core tasks for deployment preparation. This capability ensures
GO81 users are capable of operating IMDS prior to deploying to IMDS using units.

12.3. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and
knowledge training requirements. Use IMDS to document technician qualifications, if available.
Task certification must show a certification or completed date.

12.4. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the
proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as result of training on the
task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course.

12.5. Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion
System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the Airman advancement
division by SNCOs with extensive practical experience in their career fields. The tests sample
knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development team members as most
appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon study references listed in
the WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are outlined in AFI 36-2502, Airman
Promotion/Demotion Programs. WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard or Air Force
Reserve.

13. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to
indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career
development courses.

14. Job Qualification Standard. Becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job
training when placed in AF Form 623, Individual Training Record, and used according to AFI

                                                20
                                                                  CFETP 2A7X2, 1 July 2013

36-2201. For OJT, the tasks in column 1 are trained and qualified to the go/no go level. "Go"
means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets local requirements for
accuracy, timeliness, and correct procedures. When used as a JQS, the following requirements
apply:

14.1. Documentation. Document and certify completion of training IAW AFI 36-2201.
Automated records, utilizing TBA reflecting this STS is mandatory.

14.2. Converting from Old Document to CFETP. All AFJQSs and previous CFETPs are
replaced by this CFETP; therefore, conversion of all training records to this CFETP STS is
mandatory. Use this CFETP STS (or automated STS) to identify and certify all past and current
qualifications. Document and certify all previous and current training IAW AFI 36-2201.

15. Recommendations: Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates to
the AETC training manager at 359 TRS Det 1/TRR, 230 Chevalier Field Ave, NAS Pensacola
FL 32508-5142, DSN 459-7477. Reference specific STS paragraphs. A customer service
information line (CSIL) has been installed for the supervisor's convenience to identify graduates
who may have received over or under training on task/knowledge items listed in this training
standard. For a quick response to problems, call our CSIL, DSN 736-5236, any time, day or
night.



BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE



OFFICIAL                               JUDITH A FEDDER
                                       Lieutenant General, USAF
                                       DCS, Logistics, Installation and Mission Support


3 Attachments
1. Proficiency Code Key
2. Specialty Training Standard (STS)
3. 2AX7X CDC Training Standard




                                                21
                                                               PROFICIENCY CODE KEY
                                                                                                                          CFETP 2A7X2, 1 October 2010
                                                      This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                        Initials (Written)                          SSAN (last four)


                                                      Printed Name Of Training/Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                                     N/I

                                                        QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                                       Proficiency Code Key
                                             Scale       Definition: The individual
                                             Value
                                              1          IS EXTREMELY LIMITED (Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most
                                                         of the task.)
          Task                                2          IS PARTIALLY PROFICIENT (Can do most parts of the task. Needs help only on hardest parts.)

      Performance                             3          IS COMPETENT (Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work.)

         Levels                               4          IS HIGHLY PROFICIENT (Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others
                                                         how to do the task.)
                                              a          KNOWS NOMENCLATURE (Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task.)

         *Task                                b          KNOWS PROCEDURES (Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task.)

       Knowledge                              c          KNOWS OPERATING PRINCIPLES (Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each
                                                         step is needed.)
           Levels                             d          KNOWS ADVANCED THEORY (Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task.)

                                              A          KNOWS FACTS (Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject.)

        **Subject                             B          KNOWS PRINCIPLES (Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the
                                                         subject.)
       Knowledge                              C          KNOWS ANALYSIS (Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject.)

         Levels                               D          KNOWS EVALUATION (Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject.)
Explanations:
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task. (Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a subject common to
several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the courses or CDCs.

/ This mark is used in course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources (3c/b, 2b/b etc.).

      This mark is used to indicate third party certification requirements identified by the Career Field Manager.




                                                                                    22
                                                                                                                                                      Attachment 1
                                                SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                             CFETP 2A7X2, 1 October 2010
                                                        2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes
                                                           Tasks                                                                   Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                                   Training/Information
                                                                                                                                   Provided (See Atch 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            A     B         A            B           C          D          E          A                B          C
                                                                                                                                3 Skill           CDC       7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level                       Level
                                                         5    7       Tng          Tng        Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                                Course        5         7   Course
                                                                      Start       Comp        Initials   Initials   Initials
ATTACHMENT 2
NOTE 1: Items in column 2A/2B marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.
NOTE 2: All tasks and knowledge identified as training requirements in column 4A will be taught during wartime.
NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Managers to the AETC Training Manager, DSN 459-7477.
A1.1.          CAREER LADDER PROGRESSION
               TR: Air Force Enlisted Classification
               Directory (AFECD)
A1.1.1.        Progression in Career Ladder 2A7X2                                                                               -         B-       -        -
A1.1.2.        Duties of 2A732/2A752                                                                                            -         B        -        -
A1.2.          OPERATIONS SECURITY                                                                                              A         -        -        -
               VULNERABILITIES OF AFSC
               2A7X2
               TR: AFI 10-1101
A1.3.          AIR FORCE OCCUPATIONAL
               SAFETY AND HEALTH
               TR: AFI 91-203, 21-101
A1.3.1.        Hazards of AFSC 2A7X2                                                                                            A         B        -        -
A1.3.2.        AFOSH Standard for AFSC 2A7X2                                                                                    -         B        -        -
A1.3.3         Maintenance Resource Management                                                                                  A         -        -        -
A1.4.          HAZARDOUS MATERIALS AND
               WASTE HANDLING ACCORDING
               TO ENVIRONMENTAL
               STANDARDS
               TR: AFI 91-203
A1.4.1.        Types of Hazardous Materials/Fluids                                                                              B         A        -        -
A1.4.2.        Handling Procedures                                                                                              B         A        -        -
A1.4.3.        Storage and Labeling                                                                                             B         A        -        -
A1.4.4.        Proper Disposal                                                                                                  B         A        -        -
A1.5.          TECHNICAL PUBLICATIONS
               TR: AFPD 21-3; TO 00-5-1,
               Applicable -36 TOs; 33B-series TOs
A1.5.1.        Technical Order Familiarization                                                                                  -         B        -        -
A1.5.2.        Use Technical Orders to Perform          *                                                                       2b        b        -        -
               Nondestructive Inspections
A1.5.3.        Maintain Technical Order Files                                                                                   -         b        -        -
A1.6.          SUPPLY MANAGEMENT

               TR: AFMAN 23-110 ; Allowance
               Standards 002, 285, 455, 460; Fed Log;
               AFCSM 21-563
A1.6.1.        Special requisitions                                                                                             -         A        -        -
A1.6.2.        Issue slips                                                                                                      -         A        -        -
A1.6.3.        Turn-in slips                                                                                                    -         A        -        -



                                                                     23
                                                                                                                                                  Attachment 2
                                               SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A7X2, 1 October 2010
                                                          2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes
                                                             Tasks                                                                   Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                                     Training/Information
                                                                                                                                     Provided (See Atch 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A     B         A            B           C          D          E          A                B          C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill           CDC       7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level                       Level
                                                           5    7       Tng          Tng        Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                                  Course        5         7   Course
                                                                        Start       Comp        Initials   Initials   Initials
A1.6.4.        Equipment Authorizations                                                                                           -         A        -        -
A1.6.5.        Maintain Supply Documentation                                                                                      -         -        -        -
A1.6.6.        Use IMDS/GO81 Supply Interface                                                                                     -         -        -        -
               (SBSS)
A1.6.7.        Manage Resources
A1.6.7.1.      Maintain equipment accountability                                                                                  -         -        -        -
A1.6.7.2.      Supplies
A1.6.7.2.1.    Issue                                                                                                              -         -        -        -
A1.6.7.2.2.    Establish levels                                                                                                   -         -        -        -
A1.6.7.2.3.    Maintain levels                                                                                                    -         -        -        -
A1.7.          SUPERVISION AND TRAINING
               TR: Air Force Enlisted Classification
               Directory (AFECD); AFI 21-101
A1.7.1.        Supervise Personnel
A1.7.1.1.      Determine personnel requirements                                                                                   -         -        -        -
A1.7.1.2.      Orient new personnel                                                                                               -         -        -        -
A1.7.1.3.      Interpret/implement policies, directives                                                                           -         -        -        -
               or procedures for subordinates
A1.7.2.        Train Personnel
A1.7.2.1.      Determine training requirements                                                                                    -         -        -        -
A1.7.2.2.      Assign OJT trainers or supervisors                                                                                 -         -        -        -
A1.7.2.3.      Maintain records                                                                                                   -         -        -        -
A1.7.2.4.      OJT Trainer Requirements
A1.7.2.4.1.    Prepare teaching outlines or task                                                                                  -         -        -        -
               breakdowns
A1.7.2.4.2.    Provide trainees theory and train on                                                                               -         -        -        -
               actual equipment
A1.7.2.4.3.    Provide feedback on training provided                                                                              -         -        -        -
A1.7.2.5.      OJT Task Certifier Requirements
A1.7.2.5.1.    Develop methods of evaluation to                                                                                   -         -        -        -
               determine trainee knowledge/
               qualification and training effectiveness
A1.7.2.5.2.    Use appropriate method of evaluation                                                                               -         -        -        -
               and effectively determine trainee's
               ability
A1.7.2.5.3.    Provide supervisor and trainer                                                                                     -         -        -        -
               feedback on results of training
               provided, and trainee's strengths and/or
               weaknesses
A1.7.3.        Plan/Schedule Maintenance and Repair
               Work



                                                                       24
                                                                                                                                                    Attachment 2
                                                SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A7X2, 1 October 2010
                                                        2. Core      3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes
                                                           Tasks                                                                     Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                                     Training/Information
                                                                                                                                     Provided (See Atch 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            A        B        A            B           C          D          E          A                B          C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill           CDC       7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level                       Level
                                                         5       7      Tng          Tng        Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                                  Course        5         7   Course
                                                                        Start       Comp        Initials   Initials   Initials
A1.7.3.1.      Analyze workload requirements                                                                                      -         -        -        -
A1.7.3.2.      Coordinate with other agencies                                                                                     -         -        -        -
A1.7.3.3.      Determine/Establish priorities                                                                                     -         -        -        -
A1.7.3.4.      Adjust daily maintenance plans to meet                                                                             -         -        -        -
               operational commitments
A1.8.          MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION
               TR: AFI 21-101; AFI 21-202;
               TO 00-20 series; TO 00-35D-54
A1.8.1.        Maintenance Levels                                                                                                 -         B        -        -
A1.8.2.        Inspection Systems                                                                                                 -         B        -        -
A1.8.3         Scheduled/Special Inspection                                                                                       -         B        -        -
               Requirements
               TR: -6 series TOs
A1.8.4.        Quality Deficiency Reporting System                                                                                -         B        -        -
A1.8.5.        Maintenance Information Systems
               (MIS)
A1.8.5.1.      Integrated Maintenance Data Systems                                                                                -         B        -        -
               (IMDS)
A1.8.5.2.      GO81                                                                                                               -         B        -        -
A1.8.6.        IMDS
               TR: AFCSM 21 series; TO 00-20
               series
A1.8.6.1.      Open/Create discrepancies                *                                                                         -         -        -        -
A1.8.6.2.      Close discrepancies                      *                                                                         -         -        -        -
A1.8.6.3.      Access applicable IMDS menus and         *                                                                         -         -        -        -
               data screens for Backshop
A1.8.6.4.      Access applicable IMDS menus and         *    *                                                                    -         -        -        -
               data screens for Supervisors
A1.8.7.        GO 81
               TR: 80-81/SBSS Systems Interface
               Users Guide, TO 00-20 series
A1.8.7.1.      Open/Create discrepancies                *                                                                         -         -        -        -
A1.8.7.2.      Close discrepancies                      *                                                                         -         -        -        -
A1.8.7.3.      Access applicable IMDS menus and         *                                                                         -         -        -        -
               data screens for Backshop
A1.8.7.4.      Access applicable IMDS menus and              *                                                                    -         -        -        -
               data screens for Supervisors
A1.8.8.        Process Control Automated                                                                                          -         A        -        -
               Maintenance System (PCAMS)TR:
               TO 33B-1-1
A1.8.9.        Use AFTO Form 244                                                                                                  -         B        -        -
               TR: TO 00-20-1




                                                                       25
                                                                                                                                                    Attachment 2
                                                SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                            CFETP 2A7X2, 1 October 2010
                                                       2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes
                                                          Tasks                                                                   Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                                  Training/Information
                                                                                                                                  Provided (See Atch 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           A     B         A            B           C          D          E          A                B          C
                                                                                                                               3 Skill           CDC       7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level                       Level
                                                        5    7       Tng          Tng        Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                               Course        5         7   Course
                                                                     Start       Comp        Initials   Initials   Initials
A1.8.10.       Composite Tool Kit (CTK)
               Management
               TR: AFI 21-101 and applicable
               supplements
A1.8.10.1.     Use/maintain hand tools                                                                                         -         -        -        -
A1.8.10.2.     CTK procedures and documentation                                                                                -         -        -        -
A1.8.10.3.     Use of tool accountability system                                                                               -         -        -        -
               TR: AFI 21-101
A1.8.11.       Probability of Detection (POD)                                                                                  -         A        -        -
               fundamentals
A1.9.          AEROSPACE CONSTRUCTION
               FEATURES
               TR: Applicable -3 and -36 TOs
A1.9.1.        Major Components                                                                                                A         B        -        -
A1.9.2.        Reference Line Definitions                                                                                      A         B        -        -
A1.9.3.        Aircraft Markings                                                                                               A         B        -        -
A1.10.         BASIC METALLURGY
               TR: TOs 1-1A-1, 1-1A-9, 33B-1-1
A1.10.1.       Properties of Metal
A1.10.1.1.     Physical                                                                                                        A         B        -        -
A1.10.1.2.     Mechanical                                                                                                      A         B        -        -
A1.10.2.       Classification of Metals                                                                                        A         B        -        -
A1.10.3.       Types of Discontinuities
A1.10.3.1.     Manufacturing                                                                                                   A         B        -        -
A1.10.3.2.     Service                                                                                                         A         B        -        -
A1.11.         OPTICAL EVALUATION
               TR: Equipment manuals; Applicable
               TOs for aircraft assigned
A1.11.1.       Use Optical Equipment
A1.11.1.1.     Stereo zoom microscope                  *                                                                       2b        b        -        -
A1.11.1.2.     Magnifier                               *                                                                       2b        b        -        -
A1.11.2.       Operator Maintenance                                                                                            A         B        -        -
A1.12.         LIQUID PENETRANT INSPECTION
               METHOD
               TR: Equipment Manuals; Mil
               Standards; TO 33B-1-1; 33B-1-2; -9
               Series TO , -36 Series TO; Applicable
               equipment TOs
A1.12.1.       Fundamentals of Liquid Penetrant
               Inspection
A1.12.1.1.     Method A                                                                                                        B         A        -        -
A1.12.1.2.     Method B                                                                                                        B         A        -        -


                                                                    26
                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 2
                                               SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                             CFETP 2A7X2, 1 October 2010
                                                        2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes
                                                           Tasks                                                                   Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                                   Training/Information
                                                                                                                                   Provided (See Atch 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            A     B         A            B           C          D          E          A                B          C
                                                                                                                                3 Skill           CDC       7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level                       Level
                                                         5    7       Tng          Tng        Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                                Course        5         7   Course
                                                                      Start       Comp        Initials   Initials   Initials
A1.12.1.3.     Method C                                                                                                         B         B        -        -
A1.12.1.4.     Method D                                                                                                         B         B        -        -
A1.12.2.       Inspect Parts Using
A1.12.2.1.     Method A                                                                                                         -                  -        -
A1.12.2.2.     Method B                                                                                                         -         -        -        -

A1.12.2.3.     Method C                                 *                                                                       2b        b        -        -

A1.12.2.4.     Method D                                 *                                                                       2b        b        -        -

A1.12.3.       Interpret indications                    *                                                                       2b        b        -        -

A1.12.4.       Perform Process Control                  *                                                                       2b        b        -        -
A1.12.5.       Operator maintenance                                                                                             A         B        -        -
A1.13.         MAGNETIC PARTICLE
               INSPECTION METHOD
               TR: Equipment Manuals; Mil
               Standards; TO 33B-1-1; 33B-1-2; -9
               Series TOs, -36 Series TOs; Applicable
               equipment TOs
A1.13.1.       Fundamentals of Magnetic Particle                                                                                B         B        -        -
               Inspection
A1.13.2.       Inspect Parts

A1.13.2.1.     Use circular magnetism                   *                                                                       2b        b        -        -

A1.13.2.2.     Using longitudinal magnetism             *                                                                       2b        b        -        -

A1.13.2.3.     Demagnetize part                         *                                                                       2b        b        -        -

A1.13.3.       Interpret indications                    *                                                                       2b        b        -        -

A1.13.4.       Perform Process Control                  *                                                                       2b        b        -        -
A1.13.5.       Operator maintenance                                                                                             A         B        -        -
A1.14.         EDDY CURRENT INSPECTION
               METHOD
               TR: Equipment Manuals; Mil
               Standards; TO 33B-1-1; 33B-1-2; -9
               Series TO, -36 Series TO; Applicable
               equipment TOs
A1.14.1.       Fundamentals of eddy current                                                                                     B         B        -        -
               inspection
A1.14.2.       Use standards                            *                                                                       2b        b        -        -
A1.14.3.       Principles of Impedance Plane                                                                                    B         B        -        -
               Analysis
A1.14.4.       Inspect parts using

A1.14.4.1      Rotary Fastener Scanner                  *                                                                       2b        b        -        -

A1.14.4.2.     Impedance testing                                                                                                2b        b        -        -
A1.14.4.3.     Conductivity testing                     *                                                                       2b        b        -        -



                                                                     27
                                                                                                                                                  Attachment 2
                                               SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                           CFETP 2A7X2, 1 October 2010
                                                      2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes
                                                         Tasks                                                                   Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information
                                                                                                                                 Provided (See Atch 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          A     B         A            B           C          D          E          A                B          C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill           CDC       7 Skill
                                                                                                                              Level                       Level
                                                       5    7       Tng          Tng        Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                              Course        5         7   Course
                                                                    Start       Comp        Initials   Initials   Initials
A1.14.4.4.     Impedance Plane Analysis               *                                                                       2b        b        -        -

A1.14.5.       Interpret indications using

A1.14.5.1.     Rotary Fastener Scanner                *                                                                       2b        b        -        -

A1.14.5.2.     Impedance testing                                                                                              2b        b        -        -

A1.14.5.3.     Impedance Plane Analysis               *                                                                       2b        b        -        -

A1.14.6.       Operator Maintenance                                                                                           A         B        -        -
A1.15.         ULTRASONIC INSPECTION
               METHOD
               TR: Equipment Manuals; Mil
               Standards; TO 33B-1-1; 33B-1-2; -9
               Series TO, -36 Series TO; Applicable
               equipment TOs
A1.15.1.       Fundamentals of Ultrasonics                                                                                    B         B        -        -
A1.15.2.       Use Standards                          *                                                                       2b        b        -        -
A1.15.3.       Inspect Parts Using:

A1.15.3.1.     Longitudinal wave                      *                                                                       2b        b        -        -

A1.15.3.2.     Shear wave                             *                                                                       2b        b        -        -

A1.15.3.3.     Surface wave                                                                                                   -         a        -        -

A1.15.4.       Interpret Indications                  *                                                                       2b        B        -        -

A1.15.5.       Operator Maintenance                                                                                           A         B        -        -
A1.15.6.       Perform Process Control                *                                                                       2b        b        -        -
A1.16.         BOND TESTING METHOD
               TR: Equipment manuals; Equipment
               TOs; TO 33B-1-1; -36 Series TO;
               Applicable equipment TOs
A1.16.1.       Fundamentals of Bond Testing                                                                                   B         B        -        -
A1.16.2.       Use Standards                          *                                                                       2b        b        -        -
A1.16.3.       Inspect Parts Using:
A1.16.3.1.     Tap test                                                                                                       -         b        -        -

A1.16.3.2.     Through transmission                   *                                                                       2b        b        -        -

A1.16.3.3.     Pulse echo                             *                                                                       2b        B        -        -

A1.16.3.4.     Mechanical Impedance Analysis          *                                                                       2b        b        -        -
               (MIA)

A1.16.3.5.     Resonance                              *                                                                       2b        b        -        -

A1.16.3.6.     Pitch-Catch                            *                                                                       2b        b        -        -

A1.16.4.       Interpret Indications                  *                                                                       2b        b        -        -

A1.16.5.       Operator Maintenance                                                                                           A         B        -        -




                                                                   28
                                                                                                                                                Attachment 2
                                                 SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                            CFETP 2A7X2, 1 October 2010
                                                       2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes
                                                          Tasks                                                                   Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                                  Training/Information
                                                                                                                                  Provided (See Atch 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           A     B         A            B           C          D          E          A                B          C
                                                                                                                               3 Skill           CDC       7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level                       Level
                                                        5    7       Tng          Tng        Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                               Course        5         7   Course
                                                                     Start       Comp        Initials   Initials   Initials
A1.17.         COMPOSITE COMPONENT
               INSPECTION METHOD
               TR: Mil Stds; TO 33B-1-1; -36 Series
               TO; Applicable equipment TOs
A1.17.1.       Fundamentals of Composite Structures                                                                            B         B        -        -
A1.17.2.       Use Standards                           *                                                                       2b        b        -        -
A1.17.3.       Inspect Parts Using:

A1.17.3.1.     Pulse echo                              *                                                                       2b        b        -        -

A1.17.3.2.     Through transmission                    *                                                                       2b        b        -        -

A1.17.4.       Interpret Indications                   *                                                                       2b        b        -        -

A1.18.         RADIOGRAPHIC INSPECTION
               METHOD
               TR: Applicable AFIs; TO 33B-1-1;
               33B-1-2; -36 TOs; Applicable
               equipment TOs
A1.18.1.       Fundamentals of Radiography                                                                                     B         B        -        -
A1.18.2.       Radiation Safety
A1.18.2.1.     Shielded operation
A1.18.2.1.1.   Personnel exposure levels                                                                                       B         B        -        -
A1.18.2.1.2.   Use radiation detection devices         *                                                                       2c        c        -        -
A1.18.2.1.3.   Protection requirements                                                                                         B         B        -        -
A1.18.2.1.4.   Use radiation hazard markings/warning   *                                                                       2c        c        -        -
               devices
A1.18.2.2.     Unshielded operations
A1.18.2.2.1.   Personnel exposure levels                                                                                       B         B        -        -
A1.18.2.2.2.   Use radiation detection devices         *                                                                       2c        c        -        -
A1.18.2.2.3.   Protection requirements                                                                                         B         B        -        -
A1.18.2.2.4.   Use radiation hazard markings/warning   *                                                                       2c        c        -        -
               devices
A1.18.3.       Fundamentals of Silver Recovery                                                                                 A         B        -        -
A1.18.4.       Precious Metals Recovery Program                                                                                A         B        -        -
A1.18.5.       Inspect Parts
A1.18.5.1.     Set up equipment/film                   *                                                                       2b        b        -        -
A1.18.5.2.     Film Selection                                                                                                  A         B        -        -
A1.18.5.3.     Use image quality indicators                                                                                    2b        b        -        -
A1.18.5.4.     Use image quality enhancers                                                                                     2b        b        -        -
A1.18.5.5.     Make exposure corrections                                                                                       2b        b        -        -
A1.18.5.6.     Develop film                            *                                                                       2b        b        -        -
A1.18.5.7.     Perform exposures                       *                                                                       2b        b        -        -


                                                                    29
                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 2
                                                 SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                            CFETP 2A7X2, 1 October 2010
                                                     2. Core      3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes
                                                        Tasks                                                                     Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                                  Training/Information
                                                                                                                                  Provided (See Atch 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References         A        B        A            B           C          D          E          A                B          C
                                                                                                                               3 Skill           CDC       7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level                       Level
                                                      5       7      Tng          Tng        Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                               Course        5         7   Course
                                                                     Start       Comp        Initials   Initials   Initials
A1.18.6.       Interpret Indications

A1.18.6.1      Cracks                                *                                                                         2b        a        -        -

A1.18.6.2      Water Entrapment                      *                                                                         2b        a        -        -

A1.18.6.3      Foreign Objects                       *                                                                         2b        a        -        -

A1.18.6.4.     Corrosion                             *                                                                         B         A        -        -

A1.18.6.5      Weld Certification Specimens               *                                                                    -         a        -        -
               Ref TO 00-25-252

A1.18.7.       Operator Maintenance                                                                                            A         B        -        -
A1.18.8.       Perform Process Control               *                                                                         2b        b        -        -
A1.19.         COMPUTED RADIOGRAPHY
A1.19.1.       Fundamentals                                                                                                    A         B        -        -
A1.19.2.       Operate Equipment                     *                                                                         -         b        -        -
A1.19.3.       Interpret Indications

A1.19.3.1.     Cracks                                *                                                                         -         a        -        -

A1.19.3.2.     Water Entrapment                      *                                                                         -         a        -        -

A1.19.3.3.     Foreign Objects                       *                                                                         -         a        -        -

A1.19.3.4.     Corrosion                             *                                                                         -         a        -        -

A1.19.3.5.     Weld Certification Specimens               *                                                                    -         a        -        -
               Ref TO 00-25-252

A1.19.4.       Operator Maintenance                                                                                            -         -        -        -
A1.19.5.       Perform Process Control               *                                                                         -         b        -        -
A1.19.6        OTHER INSPECTION METHODS
A1.19.6.1.     Infrared Thermography                                                                                           -         A        -        -
A1.19.6.2.     Shearography                                                                                                    -         A        -        -
A1.19.6.3.     Magneto Optic Inspection (MOI)                                                                                  -         A        -        -
A1.19.6.4.     Mobile Automated Scanner Systems                                                                                -         A        -        -
               (MAUSS)
A1.20.         TECHNIQUE DEVELOPMENT
               TR: TO 33B-1-1, AFTO 242
A1.20.1.       Select Inspection Method                   *                                                                    -         b        -        -
A1.20.2.       Develop Inspection Method                  *                                                                    -         b        -        -
A1.20.3.       Record Inspection Technique                *                                                                    -         b        -        -
A1.21.         SPECTROMETRIC OIL ANALYSIS
               TR: AF1 21-124; TOs 33-1-37,
               applicable equipment TOs
A1.21.1.       Aircraft Engine Familiarization                                                                                 -         -        -        -
A1.21.2.       Fundamentals of Oil Analysis                                                                                    B         B        -        -


                                                                    30
                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 2
                                               SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                             CFETP 2A7X2, 1 October 2010
                                                        2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes
                                                           Tasks                                                                   Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                                   Training/Information
                                                                                                                                   Provided (See Atch 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            A     B         A            B           C          D          E          A                B          C
                                                                                                                                3 Skill           CDC       7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level                       Level
                                                         5    7       Tng          Tng        Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                                Course        5         7   Course
                                                                      Start       Comp        Initials   Initials   Initials
A1.21.3.       Standardize Atomic Emission (AE)         *                                                                       2b        b        -        -
               Spectrometer
A1.21.4.       Operate Atomic Emission (AE)             *                                                                       2b        b        -        -
               Spectrometer

A1.21.5.       Evaluate Trends                          *                                                                       2b        b        -        -

A1.21.6.       Fundamentals of Data Automation                                                                                  A         B        -        -
A1.21.7.       Perform Operator Maintenance on          *                                                                       2b        b        -        -
               Atomic Emission (AE) Spectrometer
A1.21.8.       Fundamentals of the Correlation                                                                                  B         B        -        -
               Program


A1.21.9.       Analyze Correlation Samples              *                                                                       -         b        -        -
A1.21.10.      Prepare Correlation Results              *                                                                       -         b        -        -
A1.21.11.      Analyze Deployment Kits                  *                                                                       -         b        -        -
A1.21.12.      Certification Program                                                                                            B         B        -        -
               TR: TOs 33-1-37-1 and 33-1-37-2
A1.21.13       SEM/EDX Equipment
               TR: TO 33D4-6-802-CD-1 (JetSCAN);
               TO 33D4-6-804-1-CD-1 (ASPEX)
A1.21.13.1.    SEM/EDX Fundamentals                                                                                             -         A        -        -
               TR: TO 33D4-6-802-CD-1 (JetSCAN);
               TO 33D4-6-804-1-CD-1 (ASPEX)

A1.21.13.2.    Operate JetSCAN                          *                                                                       -         -        -        -

A1.21.13.3.    Operate ASPEX                            *                                                                       -         -        -        -

A1.21.13.4.    JetSCAN Operator Maintenance             *                                                                       -         -        -        -

A1.21.13.5.    ASPEX Operator Maintenance               *                                                                       -         -        -        -

A2.22.         GENERAL MAINTENANCE/
               PRODUCTION TEAM TASKS
               TR: Applicable Aircraft TOs
A2.22.1.       Flightline/Safety/Precautions/Security                                                                           -         -        -        -
A2.22.2.       Introduction to Aircraft/Airframe                                                                                -         -        -        -
               Familiarization/Egress
A2.22.3.       Inspect/Use Ground Maintenance                                                                                   -         -        -        -
               Stand
A2.22.4.       Dropped Object Prevention Program                                                                                -         -        -        -
               (DOPP)
A2.22.5.       Defensive System (DS) familiarization                                                                            -         -        -        -
               (on applicable aircraft)
A2.22.6.       Statically Ground Aircraft                                                                                       -         -        -        -
A2.22.7.       Inspect/Operate Portable External                                                                                -         -        -        -
               Electrical Power Unit




                                                                     31
                                                                                                                                                  Attachment 2
                                                SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                           CFETP 2A7X2, 1 October 2010
                                                      2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes
                                                         Tasks                                                                   Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information
                                                                                                                                 Provided (See Atch 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          A     B         A            B           C          D          E          A                B          C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill           CDC       7 Skill
                                                                                                                              Level                       Level
                                                       5    7       Tng          Tng        Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                              Course        5         7   Course
                                                                    Start       Comp        Initials   Initials   Initials
A2.22.8.       Apply/Disconnect External Electrical                                                                           -         -        -        -
               Power
A2.23.         TOW AIRCRAFT
A2.23.1.       Perform Wing/Tail Walker Duties                                                                                -         -        -        -
A2.23.2.       Brake Operator                                                                                                 -         -        -        -
A2.24.         PERFORM REFUEL/DEFUEL
               TEAM MEMBER DUTIES
A2.24.1.       Fireguard                                                                                                      -         -        -        -
A2.24.2.       Panel Operator                                                                                                 -         -        -        -
A2.24.3.       Open and Close Engine Cowling                                                                                  -         -        -        -
A2.24.4.       Remove/Install Aircraft Maintenance                                                                            -         -        -        -
               Access Panels
A2.24.5.       Use Aircraft Interphone System                                                                                 -         -        -        -
A2.24.6.       Perform Aircraft Marshaling                                                                                    -         -        -        -
               Procedures
A2.25.         AIRCRAFT SAFE FOR                                                                                              -         -        -        -
               MAINTENANCE
A2.26          WEAPONS SAFETY                                                                                                 -         -        -        -




                                                                   32
                                                                                                                                                Attachment 2
 SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                CFETP 2A7X2, 1 October 2010




THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK




            33
                                                  Attachment 2
                           2AX7X Specialty Training Standard
                       AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
                                                                                                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                    Provided (See Note)

1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                     A         B               C
 REFERENCES                                                                                                         3 Skill   5 Skill      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                    Level     Level
                                                                                                                     (1)       (1)      (1)          (2)
                                                                                                                     Crse      CDC      Crse         CDC

NOTE 1: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 2: This attachment is to be used in conjunction with other attachments in applicable CFETPs.
NOTE 3: Personnel must complete CDC requirements on all MDSs/attachments.
NOTE 4: This attachment is to be used as a correlation document for the 2AX7X 7-level Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman CDC’s.
NOTE 5: All items are SUBJECT KNOWLEDGE LEVELS only and require no certification on this STS.

AA.1.         MAINTENANCE PHILOSOPHY AND POLICY
AA.1.1.       Aircraft and Equipment Readiness
             TR: AFI 21-101 and Repair Enterprise 21 Fact Sheet                                                                                       A
              (https://acc.dau.mil/CommunityBrowser.aspx?id=32781
AA.1.2.       Maintenance Concept
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-129
                                                                                                                                                      A
AA.1.3.       Reliability and Maintainability (R&M)
             TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-118 and TO 00-35D-54.
                                                                                                                                                      A
AA.1.4.       Operating Instructions (OI)
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 33-360
                                                                                                                                                      A
AA.1.5.       Support Agreements (SA)
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 25-201
                                                                                                                                                      A
AA.1.6.       Modification and Configuration Management
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                      A
AA.1.7.       Maintenance Information Systems (MIS)
             TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-116, AFCSM 21-556 volume 2, and TO 00-20-2
                                                                                                                                                      B
AA.1.8.       Maintenance Performance Indicator Metrics and Health of the Fleet
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-103
                                                                                                                                                      B
AA.1.9.       Personnel Utilization
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                      A
AA.1.10.      Maintenance Repair Priorities
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                      A
AA.1.11.      Minimum Essential System Listing (MESL)
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-103
                                                                                                                                                      A
AA.1.12.      Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS), and AEF Reporting Tool (ART)
             TR: AFI 10-201, AFI 10-244 and https://aefcenter.afpc.randolph.af.mil/
                                                                                                                                                      A
AA.1.13.      Historical Aircraft and Equipment Records
             TR: AFI 21-101 and T.O. 00-20-1
                                                                                                                                                      A
AA.1.14.      Maintenance Scheduling Effectiveness
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                      A

AA.2.         MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION KEY LEADER RESPONSIBILITIES
AA.2.1.      Wing Commander (WG/CC)
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
                                                                                                                                                      A
AA.2.2.      Wing Vice Commander (WG/CV)
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
                                                                                                                                                      A
AA.2.3.      Maintenance Group Commander (MXG/CC)
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
                                                                                                                                                      A
AA.2.4.      Maintenance Group Deputy Commander (MXG/CD)
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                      A
AA.2.5.      MXG Superintendent (SUPT)
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                      A



                                                             34
                                                                                                                                 Attachment 3
                         2AX7X Specialty Training Standard
                     AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
                                                                                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                          Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                          Provided (See Note)

1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                           A         B               C
 REFERENCES                                                                               3 Skill   5 Skill      7 Skill Level
                                                                                          Level     Level
                                                                                           (1)       (1)      (1)          (2)
                                                                                          Crse      CDC       Crse         CDC
AA.2.6.    Squadron Commander (SQ/CC) Responsibilities
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.2.7.    Operations Officer and Maintenance Superintendent (MX SUPT) Responsibilities
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.2.8.    Flight Commander/Flight Chief
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.2.9.    AMU OIC/Superintendent (SUPT)
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.2.10.   Section NCOIC
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.2.11.   Production Superintendent (Pro Super)
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.2.12.   Expediter
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            B
AA.3.      FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS SQUADRON (MOS)
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
AA.3.1.    Maintenance Operations Flight (MOF)
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.3.2.    Maintenance Training Flight (MTF)
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 36-2232
                                                                                                                            A
AA.3.3.    Programs and Resources Flight
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.3.4.    Quality Assurance (QA) Flight
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.4.      FUNCTIONS OF AIRCRAFT/HELICOPTER MAINTENANCE SQUADRON
           (AMXS/HMXS) TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
AA.4.1.    Aircraft Maintenance Unit (AMU)
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.4.2.    Aircrew and Maintenance Debrief Section
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.4.3.    Aircraft Section
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.4.4.    Specialist Section
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.4.5.    Weapons Section
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.4.6.    Plans, Scheduling and Documentation Section (PS&D)
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.4.7.    Support Section
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.5.      FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE SQUADRON (MXS)
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
AA.5.1.    Accessories Flight
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.5.2.    Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) Flight
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.5.3.    Armament Flight
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.5.4.    Avionics Flight
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.5.5.    Fabrication Flight
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A

                                                          35
                                                                                                       Attachment 3
                           2AX7X Specialty Training Standard
                       AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                 Provided (See Note)

1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                  A         B               C
 REFERENCES                                                                                      3 Skill   5 Skill      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                 Level     Level
                                                                                                  (1)       (1)      (1)          (2)
                                                                                                 Crse      CDC       Crse         CDC
AA.5.6.      Maintenance Flight
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                   A
AA.5.7.      Munitions Flight
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-201
                                                                                                                                   A
AA.5.8.      Propulsion Flight
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                   A
AA.5.9.      Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE) Flight
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                   A
AA.6.        AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND RESPONSIBILITIES
AA.6.1.      Air Logistics Centers (ALC)
             TR: AFMCMD (Mission Directives) 406, 407 and 410.
              Located at: https://www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/pdl/afmc/md.htm ,
              OO-ALC Brochure located at: http://www.hill.af.mil/main/index.html ,
                                                                                                                                   A
              WR-ALC: http://www.robins.af.mil/units/402mw.asp and
              OC-ALC: http://www.tinker.af.mil/units/
AA.6.2.      Air Force Flight Test Center/Air Armament Center
             TR: AFMCMD 404 located at https://www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/pdl/afmc/md.htm
              and Flight Test Center Fact Sheet locate at:
                                                                                                                                   A
             http://www.edwards.af.mil/library/factsheets/factsheet_print.asp?fsID=6573&page=1
AA.6.3.      Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Center (AMARC)
             TR: AFMCMD 415 located at: https://www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/pdl/afmc/md.htm and                                      A
             http://www.dm.af.mil/units/amarc.asp
AA.7.        MAINTENANCE TRAINING
AA.7.1       Types of Training
            TR: AFI 36-2232 and the ETCA site located at: https://etca.randolph.af.mil/
                                                                                                                                   A
AA.7.2.      Training Documentation
            TR: AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101, and AFI 36-2201
                                                                                                                                   A
AA.7.3.      Special Certification Rosters
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                   A
AA.7.4.      Maintenance Qualification Program (MQP)
            TR: AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101 and AFPD 10-9.
                                                                                                                                   A
AA.7.5.      Training Forecast / Request
            TR: AFI 36-2232 and AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                   A
AA.7.6.      Training Development Process
            TR: AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101, and AETCI 36-2601
                                                                                                                                   A
AA.8.        PERSONNEL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
AA.8.1.      Capability Based Manpower Standard and Logistics Composite Model (LCOM)
                                                                                                                                   A
              TR: AFMAN 38-208 Volume 3, AFI 38-201, AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
AA.8.2.      Unit Manpower Document (UMD) and Unit Personnel Manpower Roster (UPMR)
                                                                                                                                   A
             TR: AFI 38-201, AFTTP 3-21.1 and AFI 36-2110
AA.9.       MAINTENANCE SUPPLY
AA.9.1.     Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS) Supply Support
                                                                                                                                   A
            TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 (vol. 1) and AFTTP 3-21.1
AA.9.2.     Readiness Spares Packages
                                                                                                                                   A
            TR: AFMAN 23-110, AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
AA.9.3.     Consumables Management
                                                                                                                                   A
            TR: AFI 21-101, AFTTP 3-21.1 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.9.4.      Equipment Items
                                                                                                                                   A
            TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and AFMAN 23-220

                                                              36
                                                                                                              Attachment 3
                           2AX7X Specialty Training Standard
                       AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
                                                                                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                       Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)

1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                        A         B               C
 REFERENCES                                                                                            3 Skill   5 Skill      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                       Level     Level
                                                                                                        (1)       (1)      (1)          (2)
                                                                                                       Crse      CDC       Crse         CDC
AA.9.5.     Special Purpose Recoverable Authorized Maintenance (SPRAM) Assets
                                                                                                                                         A
             TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and AFI 21-103
AA.9.6.     Supply Assets Requiring Functional Check, Calibration, or Operational Flight Programming
                                                                                                                                         A
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.9.7.     Precious Metals Recovery Program
                                                                                                                                         A
             TR: AFMAN 23-110 and AFI 21-101
AA.9.8.     Supply Points
                                                                                                                                         A
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.9.9.     Local Manufacture
                                                                                                                                         A
             TR: AFI 21-101
AA.9.10.     Repair Cycle Assets / Supply Management Products
                                                                                                                                         A
             TR: AFI 23-110 and AFI 21-101
AA.9.11.     Tail Number Bins (TNB)
                                                                                                                                         A
             TR: AFI 21-101
AA.9.12.     Maintenance Repair / Supply Delivery Priorities
                                                                                                                                         A
             TR: AFI 21-101
AA.9.13.     Classified Assets
                                                                                                                                         A
             TR: AFI 21-101 and TO 00-20-1
AA.9.14.     Hazardous Materials
                                                                                                                                         A
             TR: AFI 90-821, AFI 32-7086 and AFI 21-101
AA.9.15.      Supply Deficiency and Discrepancy Reporting
             TR: AFI 23-110 and AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                         B
AA.10.       TECHNICAL ORDER POLICY
             TR: TO 00-5-1, AFI 21-101, AFI 21-303
AA.10.1.     Use of Technical Orders (TO), TO Supplements and Publications
             TR: AFI 21-101, 21-303 and AFTTP 3-21.1
                                                                                                                                         A
AA.10.2.     Technical Order Change Process
             TR: AFI 21-303
                                                                                                                                         A
AA.10.3.     Technical Order Waivers
             TR: AFI 21-303 and AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                         A
AA.11.       MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS AND PROGRAMS
AA.11.1.    Cannibalization Program
            TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
                                                                                                                                         A
AA.11.2.    Restricted Maintenance Areas
            TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                         A
AA.11.3.    Red Ball Maintenance
            TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
                                                                                                                                         A
AA.11.4.    Aircraft/Equipment Impoundment Program
            TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                         A
AA.11.5.   Maintenance Standardization and Evaluation Program (MSEP) Purpose and Inspection Types
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
                                                                                                                                         B
AA.11.6.    Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Program
            TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2232 and AFTTP 3-21.1
                                                                                                                                         A
AA.11.7.   Dropped Object Prevention (DOP) Program
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                         A
AA.11.8.   Tool Management
            TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
                                                                                                                                         A
AA.11.9.    Tool Accountability
            TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
                                                                                                                                         A
AA.11.9.1.  Marking and Tool Identification
            TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                         A


                                                             37
                                                                                                                    Attachment 3
                           2AX7X Specialty Training Standard
                       AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                  Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                  Provided (See Note)

1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                   A         B               C
 REFERENCES                                                                                                       3 Skill   5 Skill      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                  Level     Level
                                                                                                                   (1)       (1)      (1)          (2)
                                                                                                                  Crse      CDC       Crse         CDC
AA.11.9.2.   Locally Manufactured, Developed, or Modified Tools and Equipment
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                    A
AA.11.9.3.   Lost Item/Tool Procedures
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                    A
AA.11.10.    Maintenance Recovery Team
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                    A
AA.11.11.     Aging Aircraft / Equipment Issues
             TR: AFI 21-101, DoD 5010.12-M and DMSMS Guide Book (SD-22)
                                                                                                                                                    A
AA.11.12.    Quality Assurance Evaluators
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
                                                                                                                                                    A
AA.11.13.    Computer Applications
             TR: AF Portal, AF E-Publishing site, AF IT E-Learning site, Advanced Distributed Learning Services
             (ADLS) site, AF Center of Excellence for Knowledge Management (AFKM) site, Defense Travel System                                       A
             (DTS) training site, Air & Space Expeditionary Force Center site and the AF Center for Electronic
             Distribution of Systems (AFCEDS) site
AA.11.14.    Mobility
             TR: AFTTP 3-21.1, AFI 10-403, AFI 21-101, and the AFMAN 10-100 (Airman’s Manual)
                                                                                                                                                    A
AA.11.15.    Crashed Damaged or Disabled Aircraft Recovery (CDDAR) Program
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                    A




                                                            38
                                                                                                                               Attachment 3
