DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                       CFETP 4R0X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                                          Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                           12 May 2014



                                  AFSC 4R0X1/A/B/C
                            DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING SPECIALTY




                    CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

    ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
    www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

    RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                         DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING SPECIALTY
                              AFSC 4R0X1/A/B/C
                      CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN


                                        Table of Contents

PART I

Preface ……………………………………………………………………………………...                                        1

Abbreviations and Terms Explained ……………………………………………….…….                           2

Section A. General Information ……………………………………….……………..…... 6
       Purpose of the CFETP
       Uses of the CFETP
       Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B. Career Field Progression and Information ………………….………..…..…              7
       Specialty Descriptions
       Skill/Career Progression
              Apprentice Level (3)
              Journeyman Level (5)
              Craftsman Level (7)
              Superintendent Level (9)
       Training Decisions
       CCAF Career Field Path

Section C. Skill Level Training Requirements …………………………………….........              15
       Purpose
       Specialty Qualification Requirements (Apprentice through Superintendent)
              Knowledge
              Education
              Training
              Experience
              Other
              Training Sources
              Implementation

Section D. Resource Constraints ……………………………………………………….. 18

Section E. Transitional Training Guide ……………………………………………......                    19




                                                2
PART II

Section A. Specialty Training Standard (STS) …………………………………………. 23

          1.   Implementation
          2.   Purpose
          3.   Recommendations
          4.   Proficiency Code Key
          5.   Specialty Training Standard
          6.   Technical References Source Summary

Section B. Course Objective List …………………………………………………………53

Section C. Support Materials ……………………………………………………………. 53

Section D. Training Course Index ………………………………………………………. 53

Section E. MAJCOM-Unique Requirements …………………………………………... 54

Section F. Documentation of Training …………………………………………………..54

OPR: AF/SG1E
Certified By: CMSgt Erica Hammond (4R0X1 CFM, 60 MDTS/SGQX)
Supersedes: CFETP4R0X1, 1 May 06, CFETP4R0X1C1, 1 Nov 07, CFETP 4R031C2, 10 Jun 11
Number of Pages: 61




                                                     3
PART I

Preface

1. This CFETP is a comprehensive education and training document that identifies life-cycle education and
training requirements, training support resources, and minimum core task requirements for this specialty. The
CFETP will provide personnel a clear career path to success and will instill rigor in all aspects of career field
training. NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty position qualification
training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts: supervisors plan, manage, and control training within the specialty using
both parts of the plan.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A explains how
everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression information, duties and
responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C associates each level with specialty
qualifications (knowledge, education, experience, training, and other). Section D indicates resource constraints.
Some examples are funds, manpower, equipment, facilities. Section E identifies transition training guide
requirements for SSgt through MSgt.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and includes
duties, tasks, technical references to support training, AETC-conducted training, wartime course and core tasks,
and correspondence course requirements. Section B contains the course objective list and training standards
which supervisors will use to determine if Airmen satisfied training requirements. Section C identifies
available support materials. An example is a Qualification Training Package (QTPs), which may be developed
to support proficiency training. Section D identifies a training course index supervisors can use to determine
resources available to support training. Included here are both mandatory and optional courses. Section E
identifies MAJCOM unique training requirements supervisors can use to determine additional training required
for the associated qualification needs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan,
and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive effective and
efficient training at the appropriate points in their career. This plan will enable us to train today's work force for
tomorrow's jobs.




                                                          4
ABBREVIATIONS AND TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training (AT). Formal course that provides individuals who are qualified in one or more positions
of their Air Force Specialty with additional skills/knowledge to enhance their expertise in the career field.
Training is for selected career Airmen at the advanced level of the Air Force Specialty.

Air Education and Training Command (AETC). Conducts basic training for all Air Force enlisted
personnel, produces skilled flying and ground personnel, and trains many of the world’s military forces. Along
with basic military, technical, and flying training, AETC provides other types of training, such as aircrew
transitional, special, advanced, lateral, and survival training.

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). The AFCFM is the Air Force (AF) focal point for the
designated career field within a functional community. Serves as the primary advocate for the career field,
addressing issues and coordinating functional concerns across various staffs. Responsible for the career field
policy and guidance.

Air Force Specialty (AFS).      A group of positions (with the same title and code) that require common
qualifications.

Air Force Career Development Academy (AFCDA). Provides instructional opportunities for customers
beyond the confines of the formal classroom. AFCDA has an enrollment, distribution, tracking, and testing
system in place for distance learning courses.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard/Command Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS/CJQS). A
comprehensive task list that describes a particular job type or duty positions used by supervisors to document
task qualifications. The tasks on AFJQS/CJQS are common to all persons serving in the described duty
position.

As Low As Reasonably Achievable (ALARA). Describes a management philosophy of taking action to keep
radiation exposure of patients and health care workers at the lowest practical level consistent with current
technology.

Allocation Curves. The relation of hours of training in different training settings to the degree of proficiency
that can be achieved on specified performance requirements.

American Registry for Diagnostic Medical Sonography (ARDMS). The nationally recognized certification
body for ultrasonographers. Certified professionals may use the title “Registered Diagnostic Medical
Sonographer” and its abbreviation “RDMS”. RDMS specialty areas include abdomen, obstetrics and
gynecology, breast, and ophthalmology. “Registered Vascular Technologist” and its abbreviation “RVT”,
“Registered Diagnostic Cardiac Sonographer” and its abbreviation “RDCS”, RDCS specialty areas include
adult, pediatric, and fetal echocardiography. Noninvasive vascular technology is a specialty area in RVT.

American Registry of Radiologic Technologists (ARRT). The nationally recognized certification body for
many radiologic science professionals. Certified professionals may use the title “Registered Technologist” and
its abbreviation “R.T.” after their name, along with the initial designating their certification specialty or
subspecialty. Specialty certifications are offered for radiographers (R), nuclear medicine technologists (N), and
radiation therapists (T). Subspecialty certifications are also offered in mammography (M), computed
tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MR), cardiovascular-interventional technology (CV), bone
densitometry (BM), sonography (S), vascular sonography (VS), and quality management (QM).

                                                       5
American Society of Radiologic Technologists (ASRT). The national professional organization for radiologic
science professionals. Through its legislative body, the House of Delegates and its appointees to the
educational accreditation and professional certification bodies, the ASRT sets policy and direction for the
profession. A military chapter was established in 1995 giving military radiologic science professionals a voice
in the organization and 9 votes (3 from each service) in the House of Delegates.

Career Development Course (CDC). Self-study correspondence course to provide Airmen with fundamental
knowledge of their AFS.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A comprehensive, core training document that
identifies all education and training for a career field. It is a diagram for professional military and career
technical development. The CFETP’s singular design unites the training efforts of AETC and the using
MAJCOMs to eliminate waste and thereby defend training budget requirements.

Certification. A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required standards.

Certification Official. A person whom the commander assigns to determine an individual’s ability to perform
a task to required standards.

Continuation Training. Additional training exceeding requirements with emphasis on present or future duty
assignments.

Core Task. Tasks the AFCFM identifies as minimum qualification requirements for everyone within an Air
Force Specialty Code (AFSC), regardless of duty position. Core tasks may be specified for a particular skill
level or in general across the AFSC. Guidance for using core tasks can be found in the applicable CFETP
narrative.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication derived from initial/advanced skills course training standard,
identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective standards provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, 7-skill
level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance
with AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program.

Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM). Standard for handling, storing, printing, and
transmitting information in medical imaging.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer software, paper text, interactive video, or any other
necessary means to supplement training.

Hospital Information Systems (HIS). Comprehensive, integrated information system designed to manage all
aspects of hospital operation.

Initial Skills Training. A formal school course which results in award of a 3-skill level AFSC for enlisted
personnel.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly, but flexible process for planning,
developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures personnel are taught in a cost
efficient way the knowledge, skills, and attitudes essential for successful job performance.

Initial Skills Training (IST). A formal resident course that results in award of the entry skill level.

                                                         6
Joint Review Committee (JRC). Educational review committees formed of representatives from the medical
profession and the radiologic science profession that publish standards for and render accreditation decisions on
educational programs in the radiologic sciences. The Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic
Technology (JRCERT) accredits the 4R0X1 educational program.

Major Command (MAJCOM) Functional Manager (FM). A person appointed as the senior representative
for an AFS within a specific MAJCOM. Among other responsibilities, MAJCOM FMs work with the AFCFM
to develop, implement, and maintain the CFETP.

Nuclear Medicine Technology Certification Board (NMTCB). A nationally-recognized certification body
sponsored by the Society of Nuclear Medicine (SNM). Certified nuclear medicine technologists may use the
title “Certified Nuclear Medicine Technologist” and its abbreviation “CNMT” after their name. Certified
nuclear cardiology technologists may use the title “Nuclear Cardiology Technologist” and its abbreviation
“NCT” after their name.

Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational survey of
tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify personnel in both
upgrade (skill level award) and job qualification (duty position certification) training.

Optimal Training. The ideal combination of training settings that result in the highest levels of proficiency on
specified performance requirements in the minimum possible time.

Picture Archiving and Communication System (PACS). PACS is an independent network system consisting
of communication and network, image database and storage, image acquisition, and image output and display
within Diagnostic Imaging.

Qualification Training (QT). Hands-on performance-based training designed to qualify a trainee in a specific
duty position. This training occurs both during and after upgrade training to maintain qualifications.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional package designed for use at the unit to qualify, or
aid qualification in a position or program, on a piece of equipment or a performance item identified for
competency verification within this CFETP. QTPs establish performance standards and are designed to
standardize skills verification and validation of task competency. It may be printed, computer based, or other
media.

Readiness Skills Verification Program (RSVP). Program designed to maintain war skill core competencies
for all radiologic technologists in career field.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and equipment that
preclude desired training from being delivered.

Radiology Information Systems (RIS).          Networked software suite for managing medical imagery and
associated data.

Skills Training. Training which results in the award of a skill level.

Special Experience Identifier (SEI). A three-number code that identifies unique skills not otherwise identified
in the personnel data system.
                                                    7
Specialty Training. A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (on-the-job) to qualify
and upgrade Airmen in the award of a skill level.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force specialty in terms
of tasks and knowledge that an Airman in that specialty may be expected to perform or to know on the job.
Also identifies the training provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, or 7-skill level within an enlisted AFS. It further serves
as a contract between AETC and the functional user to show which of the overall training requirements for an
AFSC are taught in formal schools and correspondence courses.

Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, established and defined by authority,
custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring quantities or qualities,
establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results. A fixed quantity or quality.

Supplemental Training. Training toward a portion of an AFS without change by AFSC. Formal training on
new equipment, methods and technology that are not suited for on-the-job training.

Total Force. All collective Air Force components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian elements) of the United
States Air Force.

Trainer. A trained and qualified person approved by the commander to teach personnel to perform specific
tasks through on-the-job methods.

Technical Reference (TR). Teaching material used in the design and development of lesson plans, curriculum
and objectives in support of STS items.

Training Capacity. The capability of a training setting to provide training on specified requirements, based on
the availability of resources.

Training Requirements Analysis. A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFS to be included in the
training decision process.

Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-the-job, field
training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.).

Upgrade Training (UGT). Mandatory training which leads to attainment of a higher level of proficiency.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum of MAJCOM AFS functional managers, subject
matter experts, and AETC training personnel that determines career ladder training requirements.

Wartime Course. A course structured to train only essential tasks and to produce the greatest number of
graduates in the least amount of time. The course content is based on wartime tasks identified in the STS.




                                                         8
Section A. General Information

4. Purpose. This CFETP provides the information necessary for AFCFM, MAJCOM Functional Managers
(MFM), commanders, training managers, supervisors and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an
effective and efficient career field training program. The plan outlines the training that individuals in this AFS
should receive in order to develop and progress throughout their career. This plan identifies initial skills,
upgrade, qualification, advanced and proficiency training. IST is the AFS-specific training an individual
receives upon entry into the AF or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. Normally,
this training is conducted by AETC at one of the technical training centers. UGT identifies the mandatory
courses, task qualification requirements, and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the
3-, 5-, 7-, 9-skill level. QT is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an Airman in a
specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is
designed to provide the performance skills and knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training is formal
specialty training used for selected Airmen. Proficiency training is additional training, either in-residence or
exportable advanced training courses, or OJT training provided to personnel to increase their skills and
knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP has several purposes; some are:

4.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field-training program. Also,
it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an individual’s career.

4.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and recommends
education and training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.

4.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and the training delivery
method.

4.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired career field training
process.

5. Uses. This plan will be used by FMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure comprehensive and cohesive
training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

5.1. AETC training personnel will develop or revise formal resident, non-resident, field, and exportable training
based upon requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of the CFETP. They will also work
with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified
training.

5.2. The MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial, upgrade and
proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, contract training, or exportable courses can satisfy identified
requirements. MAJCOM-developed training to support this AFS must be identified for inclusion into the plan.

5.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan. The list of
courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

6. Coordination and Approval of CFETP. The AFCFM is the approval authority. Also, the AFCFM will
initiate an annual review of this document to ensure currency and accuracy. MAJCOM representatives and
AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field training requirements. Using the list of
courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.


                                                        9
Section B. Career Progression and Information

7. Specialty Description.

7.1. Specialty Summary. Operates equipment to produce diagnostic images and assists radiologist or physician
with special procedures. Prepares equipment and patients for diagnostic studies and therapeutic procedures.
Performs technical and administrative imaging activities. Ensures health protective measures such as standard
and transmission-based precautions and radiation protection are established and employed. Assists the radiation
oncologist. Manages diagnostic imaging functions and activities. Related DOD Occupational Subgroup:
131300.

7.2. Duties and Responsibilities.

7.2.1. Operates fixed and portable radiographic equipment to produce routine diagnostic medical images.
Computes techniques and adjusts control panel settings such as kilovoltage, milliamperage, exposure time, and
focal spot size. Positions patient to image desired anatomic structures. Selects image recording media, adjusts
table or image receptor (cassette holder), aligns x-ray tube for correct distance and angle, and restricts radiation
beam for maximum patient protection. Exposes and processes images.

7.2.2. Uses specialized equipment to perform nuclear medicine, mammography, sonography, computed
tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging. Selects imaging protocols and required accessories, and makes
adjustments based on the specific examination requirements. Records and processes the image. Manipulates
the recorded image using computer applications.

7.2.3. Assists physicians with fluoroscopic, interventional, and special examinations. Instructs patients
preparing for procedures. Prepares and assists with contrast media administration. Maintains emergency
response cart. Assists physician in treating reactions to contrast material. Prepares sterile supplies and
equipment. Operates accessory equipment such as automatic pressure injectors, and digital imagers, stereotactic
biopsy devices, and vital signs monitoring equipment. Performs image subtraction and manipulation
techniques.

7.2.4. Performs and supervises general diagnostic imaging activities. Cleans and inspects equipment and
performs preventive maintenance. Receives patients, schedules appointments, prepares and processes
examination requests and related records, and processes images and reports. Enters and maintains data in
picture archiving and communication system (PACS), radiology information systems (RIS) and hospital
information system (HIS). Assists with phase II didactic and performance training, evaluation and counseling
of students, and maintenance of student academic records. Participates in formal research projects.

7.2.5. Establishes and maintains standards, guidelines, and practices. Composes protocols. Prepares routine
positioning guides and technique charts. Reviews images to ensure quality standards are met. Performs
equipment quality control checks. Monitors personnel to ensure protective procedures such as those in the As
Low As Reasonably Achievable (ALARA) radiation safety, hazardous material communications, and Air Force
occupational safety and health programs are followed. Performs tests on radiation protection equipment.
Assesses staff competence, and monitors appropriateness of care and completeness of examination requests.

7.2.6. Plans, organizes, and supervises diagnostic imaging activities. Analyzes workload and establishes
production controls and performance standards for administrative and technical activities. Coordinates on
interdepartmental issues that interface with diagnostic imaging. Prepares and implements financial plan, and
monitors and analyzes annual expenditures. Prepares equipment purchase requests and justifications. Monitors

                                                        10
equipment performance and preventive maintenance activities. Recommends new equipment procurement.
Performs as the diagnostic imaging facility manager.

7.2.7. For leadership duty titles (supervisor and above) refer to AFI 36-2618, Enlisted Force Structure.
Appropriate duty titles for personnel working in this specialty depends on rank and/or skill level. Individuals
possessing the 3-skill level, regardless of rank, hold the duty title of Diagnostic Imaging (or Nuclear
Medicine/Diagnostic Medical Sonography/Magnetic Resonance Imaging) Apprentice. Individuals possessing
the 5-skill level, regardless of rank, hold the duty title of Diagnostic Imaging (or Nuclear Medicine/Diagnostic
Medical Sonography/Magnetic Resonance Imaging) Journeyman. Individuals possessing the 7-skill level,
regardless of rank, hold the title of Diagnostic Imaging (or Nuclear Medicine/Diagnostic Medical
Sonography/Magnetic Resonance Imaging) Craftsman.

7.2.8. PACS Administrator (N-Prefix). PACS at teleradiology reading sites and/or regional archives require
dedicated and trained diagnostic imaging personnel who meet AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel
(Officer and Enlisted), Chapter 2. MTF's with PACS network system will identify on their UMD, positions
and applicable personnel with an "N" prefix. Training documentation will be accomplished in their STS as
described starting with 8.4. Advanced PACS Administration (N Prefix) as well as attend vendor-specific
training for their vendor PACS. The duties of a PACS network administrator should be reserved for SSgt-MSgt
with 6-14 years Total Active Federal Military Service who are registry eligible with The ARRT. The PACS
Administrator will report to the senior manager, Diagnostic Imaging Flight. The incumbent will receive general
direction from Medical Information Systems (MIS) director the individual responsible for
overseeing/coordinating existing and participating in new PACS and digital imaging initiatives. The new
administrator will receive assignments in terms of overall objectives to be achieved, resources available, and
priorities to be met. The PACS Administrator is expected to independently follow assignments to completion,
and bear the responsibility to resolve problems in a manner consistent with the flight chief/Diagnostic Imaging
senior management direction and approval. The PACS Administrator will act as a liaison in digital imaging
initiatives within the department as well as interface with other departments to include MIS. Additionally, the
PACS Administrator will assist with troubleshooting and PACS maintenance for connected teleradiology spoke
sites. The PACS Administrator will be responsible for operating and capital budget requests for medical
imaging equipment in conjunction with the, Diagnostic Imaging Senior Manager. The PACS Administrator is
responsible for leading the operational, fiscal, and human resources assigned to them. The PACS Administrator
is the on-site contracting officer's technical representative (COTR) to ensure compliance with all
aspects/provisions of the DIN-PACS contract. The PACS Administrator is responsible for securing and
maintaining network integrity, obtaining equipment and software certifications, and ensuring system security.
In addition, the PACS Administrator serves as liaison between the medical group and the system vendor in
facilitating software and hardware upgrades, service and repairs, and modifications of the facilities and
hardware.

8. Skill and Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to the
superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force's ability to accomplish its mission. It is
essential that everyone involved in training do their part to plan, manage, and conduct an effective training
program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will ensure each individual receives viable training
at appropriate points in their career.

8.1. Apprentice (3) Level. Initial skills training in this specialty consist of the task and knowledge training
provided in Phase I and Phase II. The decision to train specific task and knowledge items is based on JRCERT
accreditation requirements, review of OAR data, and 4R0X1X subject matter expert input. After completing
initial skills training, apprentices will work with qualified diagnostic imaging journeymen, craftsmen, and
radiologists to further enhance their knowledge and skills. Job assignments will normally include duties in
diagnostic imaging service administration, routine clinical radiography, and/or assisting in special clinical
radiography. The apprentice will enter upgrade training using the 4R051 CDC, and will receive OJT required
for certification in all core tasks listed in the STS. The apprentice should devote their full time to learning the

                                                        11
medical field and the primary job. Completion of national certification in radiography by the ARRT at the
earliest opportunity is highly recommended.

8.2. Journeyman (5) Level. Following completion of the prerequisites for upgrade to the 5-skill level, new
journeymen should consider expanding their personal and professional horizons as they enter into continuation
training. Job assignment possibilities widen to include more emphasis in special clinical radiography areas,
duties as a preceptor/clinical instructor for Phase II students, duties in diagnostic imaging logistics, and first line
supervisory duties in routine clinical radiography or diagnostic imaging service administration areas.
Completion of continuing education requirements is mandatory for maintaining current ARRT certification.
Attending computer training classes, completing requirements for the Community College of the Air Force
(CCAF) Associate of Applied Science Degree in Radiologic Technology is strongly encouraged. The more
senior journeyman may consider training into one of the SEI or AFSC shred areas as well as certain special duty
assignments such as Technical Training Instructor duty. Individuals must have, or be able to complete
requirements for an Associate Degree within 1 year following assignment to instructor duty. Additionally, all
instructors must hold and maintain a national certification within their specialty. PACS administrators may be
selected from this group. Active involvement in squadron and community activities is strongly encouraged.
Individuals will begin preparation for promotion to Staff Sergeant under the Weighted Airman Promotion
System (WAPS). Individuals will attend Airman Leadership School (ALS) upon selection for promotion to
Staff Sergeant.

NOTE: Individuals who retrain into the 4R0X1 specialty should not be assigned management
responsibilities until they have obtained the 5-skill level, regardless of rank.

8.3. Craftsman (7) Level. Upon selection for promotion to the grade of Staff Sergeant, journeymen may be
entered into upgrade training for the 7-skill level (no earlier than the first day of the promotion cycle).
Individuals must have been awarded the 5-skill level and be certified in all 5-level tasks within the capability of
their institution. Craftsmen are expected to be knowledgeable and highly skilled in a wide variety of duties
within the AFS. They may serve in supervisory, administrative, or management positions in the basic AFS
areas, or in technical or supervisory positions in one of the subspecialty areas. PACS administrators, Phase II
course supervisors, the career field technical writer, instructors and instructor supervisors at the technical
training school are normally selected from this group of widely experienced technologists. By now, individuals
should have completed the CCAF degree. Individuals are encouraged to continue college education toward a
baccalaureate or advanced degree in a specialty directly related to the AFSC (radiologic technology or health
sciences) or one that would prepare the individual for the higher level management positions in the AFSC
(business administration, personnel management, or education). Craftsmen selected for promotion to Technical
Sergeant will attend a Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA). Active involvement in squadron, base,
and community activities to help build leadership and management abilities is strongly encouraged.

8.4. Superintendent (9) Level. Superintendents are normally assigned to top level supervisory positions at the
regional hospital or medical center level. College courses in the areas of financial and personnel management
should be included in the education program as the individual completes a baccalaureate or advanced degree.
Active involvement should continue in squadron, base, and community activities and in all levels of the career
field's professional organizations with emphasis placed on assuming leadership roles of the Senior
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (SNCOA) is required for all persons selected for promotion to Senior
Master Sergeant.

9. Training Decisions. This CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to encompass the
entire spectrum of training requirements for the Diagnostic Imaging Career Field. The spectrum includes a
strategy for when, where, and how to meet these training requirements. Our strategy is apparent and affordable,
eliminates duplication, and prevents a fragmented approach to training. The following decisions regarding
                                                      12
training within the 4R0X1 career field were made during the U&TW held at Fort Sam Houston, Texas, in April
2012. Training decisions made for this AFS have been, and must continue to be made with the full
understanding of their impact on the external civilian accreditation of the programs.

9.1. Initial Skills. No major changes to initial skills training for 4R0X1 or shreds. Minor STS item changes
included training reference changes, core task deletions, and proficiency level changes.

9.2. Five-Level Upgrade Requirements. No major changes

9.3. Seven-Level Upgrade Requirements. No major changes

9.4. Proficiency Training. QTP for MRI course will be discontinued due the addition of an Advance MRI
course. In resident MRI course will award the 3 skill level. The 5-skill level upgrade requirements will be
accomplished via OJT.

10. CCAF. Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon completion of basic military training. CCAF provides the
opportunity to obtain an Associate of Applied Sciences Degree.                  Visit CCAF at Web Link
http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/ for additional information. In addition to its associate degree program, CCAF
offers the following:

10.1. CCAF Instructor Certification (CIC) Program. CCAF offers the CIC Program for qualified instructors
who teach CCAF collegiate-level credit awarding courses at a CCAF-affiliated school. The CIC is a
professional credential that recognizes the instructor's extensive faculty development training, education and
qualification required to teach a CCAF collegiate course and formally acknowledges the instructor's practical
teaching experience. The program is a three-level program (CIC-I, CIC-II and CIC-III). Each level consists of
increased or advanced requirements and achievements. It provides CCAF instructors a structured professional
development track. The CIC Program replaced the CCAF Occupational Instructor Certification (OIC) Program,
which officially closed on 1 January 2011. The CIC Program is managed and administered by the CCAF
Credentialing Programs Flight (CCAF/DEAL). Coordinate all CIC nominations and refer any questions to
CCAF/DEAL at DSN 749-5020 or E-Mail ccaf.deal@us.af.mil.

11. Degree Requirements. All Airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program. Prior to completing
an associate degree, the 5-skill level must be awarded and the following requirements must be met:
                                                                                  Semester
                                                                                      Hours
Technical Education __________________________________________________                   24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies _____________________________                 6
Physical Education ___________________________________________________                    4
General Education ____________________________________________________                   15
Program Elective _____________________________________________________                   15
Total _______________________________________________________________                   64

11.1. Technical Education (24 semester hours). A minimum of 12 semester hours of Technical Core subjects
and courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied from Technical Core or Technical
Elective subjects and courses.




                                                     13
                          Nuclear Medicine Technology 4R0X1A
                               Technical Core                                 Maximum
                                                                              Semester
                                                                               Hours
American Registry of Radiologic Technologist Certification Nuclear Medicine     24
Registry
Applied Nuclear Medicine Physics and Chemistry                                   9
CCAF Internship                                                                 18
Diagnostic Imaging, Clinical and Nonclinical Physics                            24
Nuclear Medicine Instrumentation                                                18
Radiation Safety and Procedures                                                 14
Radiopharmaceuticals                                                             8
                               Technical Electives
Computer Science                                                                 6

                         Diagnostic Medical Sonography 4R0X1B
                                                                              Maximum
                                Technical Core                                Semester
                                                                               Hours
American Registry of Radiologic Technologist Certification                      24
CCAF Internship                                                                 18
Clinical Sonography Practicum I                                                  8
Clinical Sonography Practicum II                                                18
Diagnostic Sonography                                                            6
Sonographic Scanning                                                            10
                              Technical Electives
Computer Science                                                                 6
                      Diagnostic Imaging Technology 4R0X1/4R0X1C
                                                                              Maximum
                                Technical Core                                Semester
                                                                               Hours
American Registry of Radiologic Technologists Certification                     24
CCAF Internship                                                                 18
Diagnostic Imaging Anatomy & Physiology                                          6
Diagnostic Imaging Clinical Practicum                                           12
Diagnostic Imaging Physics                                                       6
Diagnostic Imaging Positioning                                                   6
Diagnostic Imaging Procedures                                                    8
Diagnostic Imaging Technique & Darkroom Procedures                               6
Introduction to Diagnostic Imaging Technology                                    6
                               Technical Electives
Advanced Diagnostic Imaging Procedures                                          12
Computer Science                                                                 6
Diagnostic Imaging Clinical Education/Internship                                12
Medical Readiness                                                                3




                                                     14
11.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester hours). Professional military education,
civilian management courses accepted in transfer and/or by testing credit.

11.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours). This requirement is satisfied by completion of basic military
training.

11.4. General Education (15 Semester hours). Applicable courses must meet the criteria for application of
courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement with the definitions of applicable
General Education subject/courses as provided in the CCAF General Catalog.

11.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours). Satisfied with applicable Technical Education; Leadership,
Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects and courses, including natural science
courses meeting GER application criteria. Nine (9) semester hours of CCAF degree applicable technical credit
otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied. See the CCAF General Catalog for details regarding
the Associates of Applied Sciences degree for this specialty.

11.6. Additional Information. Off-duty education is highly encouraged for professional development.
Individuals desiring to become AETC instructors must possess as a minimum an associate degree or be within 1
year of completion (45 semester hours). A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the
Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.




                                                    15
12. Career Field Path.
Figure 5-1. Enlisted Career Pyramid




Figure 5-2. Enlisted Education and Training Path




                                                   16
Section C Skill Level Training Requirements

13. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this specialty are defined in terms of tasks and knowledge
requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each skill level in broad, general
terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award, and retention of each skill level. The
specific task and knowledge training requirements are identified in the STS at Part II, Section A and B of this
CFETP.

13. Specialty Qualification.

13.1. Apprentice Level (3-Skill Level) Training:

13.1.1. Knowledge. 4R031/A/B/C. Human anatomy and physiology; medical terminology and ethics; legal
aspects of medicine; healthcare accreditation standards; radiation physics, biology, and protection; basic
electronics theory; techniques of operating x-ray and specialized diagnostic imaging equipment; radiographic
positioning; patient care and monitoring techniques; image recording media and processing techniques; quality
control procedures; aseptic and sterile techniques; reactions to contrast media; cardiopulmonary resuscitation;
methods of recording the fluoroscopic image; patient and equipment safety budget preparation and execution;
and medical records administration.

NOTE: SHREDS. Reinstatement of the 4R0X1 as the primary AFSC will be considered after the member has
served at least 3 years at the 5/7 skill level of his/her particular shred and sewn on MSgt. A letter must be
submitted with concurrence from flight commander and flight section chief, and sent to the MFM.

13.1.1.1. 4R031A. Algebra, nuclear physics, clinical chemistry, nuclear pharmacology, and Nuclear
Regulatory Commission regulations concerning use of radionuclides.

13.1.1.2. 4R031B. Ultrasound physics; techniques of operating specialized ultrasound components and
equipment; basic knowledge of vascular and abdominal anatomy (topical and sectional), including normal
variant anatomy, obstetric anatomy, and abnormal anatomy; and transducer characteristics, differences, and use.

13.1.1.3. 4R031C. Magnetic physics, magnetism, magnetic safety, and radio frequency; techniques of
operating MRI equipment; and advanced knowledge of sectional anatomy applicable to MRI.

13.1. 2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school or general education development
equivalency with successful completion of courses in algebra, and biology or general science are mandatory.
Successful completion of high school or collegiate courses in chemistry and physics is desirable.

13.1. 3. Training.

13.1.3.1. Diagnostic Imaging. For award of 4R031AFSC, completion of the diagnostic imaging apprentice
course Phase I (L8AQJ4R03101AA) and Phase II (L5ABO4R03102AA) is mandatory.

13.1. 3.2. Nuclear Medicine (A-Shred). Completion of course (L9ALJ4R03101AA), Nuclear Medicine Phase
I and (L5ABO4R031A02AA), Nuclear Medicine Phase II, is mandatory for the award of the 3-skill level in the
A-shred.

13.1. 3.3. Ultrasound (B-shred). Completion of course (J3AQR4R031B01AA), Diagnostic Ultrasound Phase
I and (L5ALO4R031B02AA), Diagnostic Ultrasound Phase II, is mandatory for award of the 3-skill level in the
B-shred 4R031B. Completion of a diagnostic medical sonography phase II course.
                                                   17
13.1. 3.4. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (C-shred). Completion of (L5ALO4R031C00AA) course is required
for award of the 3-skill level in the C-shred. Individuals must apply and be selected for retraining into the
C-shred prior to beginning training.

13.1.3.5. PACS Administrators (N-Prefix). Individuals will complete the standardized AF 797, Job
Qualification Standard Continuation/Command JQS for PACS Administrators as well as any locally
determined training specific to the PACS system they will be managing. Training will be documented on the
Diagnostic Imaging standardized AF Form 797. (Maintained by the PACS advisor and posted on the
Knowledge Exchange Web Site)

13.13.6. Mammography. Personnel performing mammography duties must possess a 5 skill level, be
registered in radiography through the ARRT and meet all other training/experience requirements specified in
the Mammography Quality Standards Act. All technologists completing the AF Mammography Course will be
assigned the 460 SEI.

13.1.4. Experience. N/A

13.1.4.1. Selection for diagnostic imaging shred-out training (Nuclear Medicine/4R0X1A, Ultrasound
/4R0X1B, and Magnetic Resonance Imaging/4R0X1C) requires at a minimal, 12 months (24 months preferred)
experience as a 5-skill level diagnostic imaging technologist prior to acceptance into the shred training course.

13.1.4.2. Selection for PACS Administrator (N-Prefix) duty requires possession of the 7-skill level and
minimum rank of SSgt, (TSgt preferred). Individuals should possess a thorough knowledge of and aptitude for
working with information systems.

13.1.5. Other. Minimum age of 18 years is required for entry into training for this AFSC. For award and
retention of these AFSCs, must maintain an Air Force Network License according to AFI 33-115, Volume 2,
Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network Professionals.

13.2. Training Sources and Resources. Completion of the diagnostic imaging apprentice course Phase I
(L8AQJ4R03101AA) and Phase II (L5ABO4R03102AA) satisfies the training requirements specified in the
specialty qualification section (above) for award of the 3-skill level.

13.3. Implementation. Apprentice (3-skill level) training begins with entry in the diagnostic imaging
apprentice course (Phase I). Satisfactory completion of the course (Phase I and Phase II) results in award of the
3-skill level. Job qualification training starts when graduates are assigned to their first duty position. Thereafter,
it is initiated any time an individual is assigned duties he/she is not qualified to perform.

13.4. Journeyman (5-Level) Training Requirements.

13.4.1. Specialty Qualification.

13.4.1.2. Knowledge. Human anatomy and physiology; medical terminology and ethics; legal aspects of
medicine; healthcare accreditation standards; radiation physics, biology, and protection; basic electronics
theory; techniques of operating x-ray and specialized diagnostic imaging equipment; radiographic positioning;
patient care and monitoring techniques; image recording media and processing techniques; quality control
procedures; aseptic and sterile techniques; reactions to contrast media; cardiopulmonary resuscitation; methods
of recording the fluoroscopic image; patient and equipment safety; budget preparation and execution; and
medical records administration.
                                                        18
13.4.1.3. Education. N/A

13.4.1.4. Training. For the basic AFSC, SEI and all shred-outs, the following actions are required for award of
the 5-skill level AFSC:
        (a) Completion of CDC 4R051;
        (b) Complete all STS core tasks (identified by an asterisk [*] in column 1 of the STS;
        (c) Complete all STS tasks for the assigned duty position;
        (d) Complete at least 12 months OJT (9 months for retrainees); supervisor recommendation and
        commander approval.
        (e) Reserve component are allowed and highly encouraged to participate in seasoned training after
        Phase II.

13.4.1.5. Experience.

13.4.1.5.1. 4R0X1. Qualification and possession of AFSC 4R031. Also, experience operating x-ray equipment,
and producing and processing radiographs.

13.4.1.5.2. 4R051A/B/C. Prior qualification in and possession of AFSC 4R031A/B/C respectively. Also,
experience performing applicable shred (nuclear medicine, ultrasound, or magnetic resonance imaging)
functions and activities.

13.4.1.6. Other. For award and retention of these AFSCs, must maintain an Air Force Network License
according to AFI 33-115, Volume 2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network Professionals.

13.4.2. Training Sources and Resources. Completion of CDC 4R051, Diagnostic Imaging Journeyman,
satisfies the knowledge requirements specified in the specialty qualification section (above) for award of the 5-
skill level. The STS identifies all core tasks required for qualification. Upgrade and qualification training are
provided by qualified trainers using available resources.

13.4.3. Implementation. Entry into 5-skill level upgrade training is initiated upon arrival at the first permanent
duty station, following graduation from Phase II training. Qualification training is initiated anytime an
individual is assigned duties he/she is not qualified to perform.

13.5. Craftsman (7-Level) Training Requirements.

13.5.1. Specialty Qualification.

13.5.1.1. Knowledge. Human anatomy and physiology; medical terminology and ethics; legal aspects of
medicine; healthcare accreditation standards; radiation physics, biology, and protection; basic electronics
theory; techniques of operating x-ray and specialized diagnostic imaging equipment; radiographic positioning;
patient care and monitoring techniques; image recording media and processing techniques; quality control
procedures; aseptic and sterile techniques; reactions to contrast media; cardiopulmonary resuscitation; methods
of recording the fluoroscopic image; patient and equipment safety budget preparation and execution; medical
records administration; and department administration and management.

13.5.1.2. Education. N/A

13.5.1.3. Training. The following actions are required for award of the 7-skill level AFSC: (a) be trained on
all STS core tasks (identified by an asterisk (*) in column 1 of the STS), (b) be trained on all STS tasks for the
                                                         19
assigned duty position, (c) minimum grade of SSgt, (d) complete at least 12 months upgrade training (6 months
if retraining).

13.5.1.4. Experience.

13.5.1.4.1. 4R071. Prior qualification and possession of AFSC 4R051. Also, experience performing or
supervising functions such as producing radiographs, assisting with fluoroscopy and special radiographic
procedures, or treating disease by radiotherapy.

13.5.1.4.2. 4R071A/B/C. Prior qualification in and possession of AFSC 4R051A/B/C respectively. Also,
experience performing or supervising nuclear medicine, ultrasound, or MRI functions and activities.

13.5.1.5. Other. For award and retention of these AFSCs, must maintain an Air Force Network License
according to AFI 33-115, Volume 2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network Professionals.

13.5.2. Training Sources and Resources. The STS identifies all core tasks required for qualification. Upgrade
and qualification training are provided by qualified trainers using technical references listed in the STS, Part II,
Section A of this CFETP.

13.5.3. Implementation. Entry into 7-skill level upgrade training is initiated when an individual possesses the
5-skill level and is selected for promotion to the grade of Staff Sergeant. Upgrade training may begin on the first
day of the first month of the promotion cycle in which the individual has been selected for promotion.
Qualification training is initiated anytime an individual is assigned duties he/she is not qualified to perform.
Completion of the 7-skill level course and all its prerequisites is required prior to award of the 7-skill level.

13.6. Superintendent (9-Level) Training Requirements.

13.6.1. Specialty Qualification.

13.6.1.1. Knowledge. Human anatomy and physiology; medical terminology and ethics; legal aspects of
medicine; healthcare accreditation standards; radiation physics, biology, and protection; basic electronics
theory; techniques of operating x-ray and specialized diagnostic imaging equipment; radiographic positioning;
patient care and monitoring techniques; image recording media and processing techniques; quality control
procedures; aseptic and sterile techniques; reactions to contrast media; cardiopulmonary resuscitation; methods
of recording the fluoroscopic image; patient and equipment safety; budget preparation and execution; medical
records administration; medical service organization and function, medical administrative procedures; personnel
management and administration, Nuclear Regulatory Commission regulations governing medical use of
radioisotopes, applicable environmental protection standards, management of non-military personnel, applicable
accreditation standards and inspection procedures.

13.6.1.2. Education. N/A

13.6.1.3. Training. N/A

13.6.1.4. Experience. Prior qualification in and possession of AFSC 4R071, 4R071A, 4R071B, or 4R071C.
Also, experience managing radiologic, nuclear medicine, ultrasound, or MRI functions and activities;
mandatory experience of medical service organization and function, medical administrative procedures, medical
supply procedures, medical equipment management procedures, personnel management and administration,
Nuclear Regulatory Commission regulations governing medical use of radioisotopes, applicable environmental

                                                        20
protection standards, management of non-military personnel, applicable accreditation standards and inspection
procedures, and preparation and execution of budgets.

13.6.1.5. Other. For award and retention of these AFSCs, must maintain an Air Force Network License
according to AFI 33-115, Volume 2.

13.6.2. Training Sources and Resources. Required PME and intermediate qualifications.

13.6.3. Implementation. Entry into 9-skill level training is initiated when an individual is selected for SMSgt,
and is a fully qualified 7-skill level. Qualification training is initiated any time an individual is assigned duties
they are not certified to perform.

Section D. Skill Resource Constraints

14. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints, which preclude optimal and desired training
from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower. Narrative explanations
of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what effect each constraint has on training are
included. Also included in this section are actions required, office of primary responsibility, and target
completion dates. Resource constraints will be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

14.1. There are currently no resource constraints. This area is reserved.

Section E. Transitional Training Guide

15. There are currently no transition training requirements. This area is reserved.

Part II

Section A - Specialty Training Standard (STS)

16. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by HQ AETC.

16.1. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201.

16.1.1. Lists, in column 1, the most common tasks, knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for
Airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level. TRs in the source summary are commercial
publications or other service publications that are essential for OJT and mission accomplishment and are
referenced by title throughout the STS. The unit OJT section will consolidate the requirements for the unit
supported and order publications through the hospital/clinic library activity. Column 1 identifies, with an
asterisk (*), those task/knowledge items that are trained during the resident wartime course. Column 2
identifies core tasks, per skill level (i.e. “5” or “7”), for UGT requirements.

16.1.2. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of task training requirements and
knowledge training requirements. Automated training management systems to document technician
qualifications, will be used. Task certification must show a certification/completed date. (NOTE: As a
minimum, use the following column designators: Training Complete, Certifier Initials).

16.1.3. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 3 shows the proficiency to be
demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the task/knowledge and the career knowledge

                                                         21
provided by the correspondence course. See CADRE/AFSC/CDC listing maintained by the unit training
manager for current CDC listings.

16.1.4. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to indicate the level
of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career development courses.

16.1.5. Use to document task when placed in AF Form 623, Individual Training Record, and used according to
AFI 36-2201. Refer to AFI 36-2201 for further guidance on documentation, transcribing, decertification, and
recertification.

16.2. Documenting Career Knowledge. When a CDC is not available, the supervisor identifies STS training
references that the trainee requires for career knowledge in accordance with (IAW) AFI 36-2201 and ensures, as
a minimum, that trainees cover all mandatory items specified in AFMAN 36-2108. For two-time CDC exam
failures, the unit commander will take appropriate action IAW AFI 36-2201. NOTE: Career knowledge must
be documented prior to submitting a CDC waiver.

16.3. Promotion. The STS is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman
Promotion System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the AETC Airman Advancement
Division, by senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their career fields. The tests sample knowledge of
STS subject matter areas judged by test development team members as most appropriate for promotion to higher
grades. Questions are based upon study references listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are in
Chapter 1 of AFI 36-2605, AF Military Personnel Testing System. WAPS is not applicable to the ANG.

16.4. Maintaining Core Task Certification. Personnel working in the shred AFSCs (4R0X1A/B/C) must
work a minimum of 2 weeks (10 duty days) per year performing basic radiography functions in order to
maintain proficiency in wartime skills. In addition, shred personnel must be recertified every 2 years on all core
tasks identified in the basic AFSC STS. This requirement is waived for shred personnel filling a special duty
position assigned outside of a medical treatment facility.

16.5. Recommendations. Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates, inadequacies and
recommended changes to this training standard to the 937 TRG/TGE, 2931 Harney, Fort Sam Houston, TX
78234 or use the Customer Service Information Line, DSN 420-1080 (commercial 210-808-1080) to report
your findings. Be sure to reference specific STS paragraphs in the report.



BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE


OFFICIAL                                      THOMAS W. TRAVIS
                                              Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
                                              Surgeon General

6 Attachments
1. Qualitative Requirements
2. Diagnostic Imaging Specialty
3. Nuclear Medicine, A Shred
4. Ultrasound, B Shred
5. Magnetic Resonance Imaging, C Shred
6. Bibliography and Cross Talk Listing of 4R0X1 Training References
                                                    22
                                                                   Attachment 1
                                                         Diagnostic Imaging Specialty STS

This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                              Initials (Written)             SSAN (last 4)


                                                  Printed Name Of Trainer, Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                          N/I


N/I                                                                            N/I


N/I                                                                            N/I


N/I                                                                            N/I


N/I                                                                            N/I


N/I                                                                            N/I


N/I                                                                            N/I

N/I                                                                            N/I




                                                            QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                                      Proficiency Code Key
                                    Scale Value    Definition: The individual
                                             1     Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (Extremely Limited)
          Task                               2     Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
      Performance                            3     Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
         Levels                              4     Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task. (Highly
                                                   Proficient)
                                             a     Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)
         *Task                               b     Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)
       Knowledge                             c     Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                                                   (Operating Principles)
          Levels                         d         Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
                                         A         Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
       **Subject                         B         Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (Principles)
       Knowledge                         C         Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
         Levels                          D         Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)

Explanations:
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task. (Example: b and
1b)
** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a subject common
to several tasks.
- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.
X This mark is used alone in the course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.

NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war time.




                                                                                     23
                                                                    Attachment 2
                                                             Diagnostic Imaging Specialty
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical                2. Core    3. Certification for OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 /Wartime
References                                       Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                 B             C
                                                                                                                                A
                                                             A           B             C        D             E                                5-Skill      7- Skill
STS 4R0X1                                                                                                                  3- Skill Level
                                                                                                                                               Level         Level
                                                            Trng       Trng       Trainee    Trainer    Task Certifier              Phase
                                                                                                                         Phase I                CDC              OJT
                                                            Start    Complete     Initials   Initials      Initials                   II
1. CAREER LADDER PROGRESSION
1.1 USAF Medical Service
    TR: AFMS Knowledge Exchange                                                                                            A          -           -               -
    (https://kx2.afms.mil/); AFPD 44-1
1.1.1 Mission                                                                                                              A          -           -               -
1.1.2 Organization                                                                                                         A          -           -               -
1.2 The Airman career ladder and
    educational opportunities
    TR: CFETP 4R0X1 AFIs 36-2304, 36-
                                                                                                                           A          -           -               -
    2306; 36-2101, 36-2618, 36-2502, 36-
    2406, 36-2903, 36-2905, 36-2906, 36-
    2909
1.3 Progression in career ladder 4R0X1
                                                                                                                           A          -           -               -
    TR: CFETP 4R0X1; AFI 36-2101
1.4 Duties of AFSCs 4R031/51/71
                                                                                                                           A          -           -               -
    TR: CFETP 4R0X1; AFI 36-2101
2. MEDICAL READINESS
Initial Medical Readiness training,
directed by AFI 41-106, is provided in
the Emergency Medical Readiness
course conducted at the 937 Training
Group, JBSA Ft Sam Houston Texas.
                                                                                                                            -         -           -               -
Completed training is documented on
AF Form 1098 for each course graduate.
Continuing/on-going Medical Readiness
training for the individual is the
responsibility of each medical facility.

3. AF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND
   HEALTH (AFOSH) PROGRAM
   TR: AFI 91-202;; AFI 41-203
3.1 AFOSH Standards for AFSC 4R0X1                                                                                          -         A          B                -
3.2 AF Radiation Protection
    TR: Radiologic Science for
    Technologists most current version;
                                                                                                                           A          A          B                -
    Merrill’s Atlas of Radiographic Positions
    and Radiologic Procedures; AFMAN 48-
    125; AFI 48-148
3.3 Perform radiation protection procedures
    TR: Radiologic Science for
    Technologists most current version;
    Merrill’s Atlas of Radiographic Positions       *                                                                      2b         3c         c                -
    and Radiologic Procedures; AFMAN 48-
    125; AFI 48-148
3.4 Radiology environmental management
                                                                                                                            -         -          A                -
    issues
4. SUPERVISION OF MILITARY AND
   NON-MILITARY PERSONNEL
4.1 Orient new personnel
    TR: AFI 36-2201; AFPC Web site
                                                                                                                            -         -           -               -
    Search “Enlisted Classification”; CFETP
    4R0X1
4.2 Assign personnel to duty position (UMD,
                                                                                                                            -         -           -               -
    UPMR, mobility, UTC, etc.)
4.3 Plan work assignments and priorities                                                                                    -         -           -               -
4.4 Schedule work assignments and priorities                                                                                -         -           -               -
4.5 Establish work methods and performance
    standards (OIs, policies, protocols, etc.)                                                                              -         -           -               -
    TR: AFI 44-102; AFPC Web site Search

                                                                                  24
    “Enlisted Classification” CFETP 4R0X1
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical              2. Core    3. Certification for OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                               /Wartime
References                                     Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                               B             C
                                                                                                                              A
                                                           A           B             C        D             E                                5-Skill      7- Skill
STS 4R0X1                                                                                                                3- Skill Level
                                                                                                                                             Level         Level
                                                          Trng       Trng       Trainee    Trainer    Task Certifier              Phase
                                                                                                         Initials      Phase I               CDC           OJT
4.6 Evaluate work performance of                          Start    Complete     Initials   Initials                                 II
    subordinate personnel                                                                                                 -          -          -              -
   TR: AFI 36-2406
5. Training
TR: AFI 36-2201
5.1 Evaluate personnel to determine need
                                                                                                                          -          -          -              -
     for training
5.2 OJT Management                                                                                                        -          -          -              -
5.2.1 Prepare job qualification standards                                                                                 -          -          -              -
5.2.2 Conduct training                                                                                                    -          -          -              -
5.2.3 Counsel trainees on their progress                                                                                  -          -          -              -
5.3 Monitor effectiveness of:                                                                                             -          -          -              -
5.3.1 Career knowledge upgrade training                                                                                   -          -          -              -
5.3.2 Job proficiency upgrade training                                                                                    -          -          -              -
5.3.3 Qualification training                                                                                              -          -          -              -
5.4 Maintain training records                                                                                             -          -          -              -
5.5 Evaluate effectiveness of training
                                                                                                                          -          -          -              -
     programs
6 IMAGING PROPERTY
   REQUIREMENTS
   TR: AFI 41-209
6.1 Categories of medical equipment and
                                                                                                                          -          -         A               -
    supply
6.2 Process requests for medical materials
                                                                                                                          -          -         a               -
    and services
6.3 Property accountability and
     responsibility                                                                                                      A           -         A               -

6.4 Report of survey system
                                                                                                                          -          -         B               -
7 PERFORMS ANALOG IMAGE
   LIBRARY FUNCTIONS
   TR: AFI 33-364; AFRIMS Web site
7.1 Prepares master folder                                                                                                -         1a          -              -
7.2 Prepares sub folder                                                                                                   -         1a          -              -
7.3 Files folders in terminal digit sequence                                                                              -         2b          -              -
7.4 Retrieves file folders                                                                                                -         2b          -              -
7.5 Perform search procedures for misplaced
                                                                                                                          -          -         b               -
    files
7.6 Perform film loan procedures
                                                                                                                          -          -         b               -
7.7 Perform film transfer procedures                                                                                      -          -         b               -
7.8 Maintains radiologic film files                                                                                       -         2b         b               -
7.8.1 Dispose film files                                                                                                  -          -         a               -
7.8.2 Mammography image files                                                                                             -          -         b               -
7.8.3 Occupational/asbestos image files                                                                                   -          -         b               -
7.8.4 Final type image files                                                                                              -         b          b               -
7.8.5 Sensitive (medical-legal) image files                                                                               -          -         b               -
7.8.6 Teaching image files                                                                                                -          -         b               -
7.8.7 Radiography reports                                                                                                 -         c           -              -




                                                                                25
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical             2. Core    3. Certification for OJT
                                              /Wartime
                                                                                                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
References                                    Tasks                                                                         Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                               B           C
                                                                                                                              A
                                                          A           B             C        D             E                                5-Skill     7- Skill
STS 4R0X1                                                                                                               3- Skill Level
                                                                                                                                             Level       Level
                                                         Trng      Trng        Trainee    Trainer    Task Certifier               Phase
                                                                                                                      Phase I                CDC          OJT
                                                         Start   Complete      Initials   Initials      Initials                    II
8. DIGITAL IMAGING FUNCTIONS
   (PACS), IMAGING INFORMATION
   SYSTEMS, HOSPITAL
   INFORMATION SYSTEMS
   TR: AFI 41-211; Digital Radiography
   and PACS (Current Ed)
8.1 Picture Archiving and Communication
     Systems (PACS)
8.1.1 System Overview                                                                                                   A         A           B
                                                                                                                                                            -
       (terminology/topology)
8.1.2 Hospital Information System/                                                                                      A         A           A
       Radiology Information Systems                                                                                                                        -
       (HIS/RIS)
8.1.3 Image Acquisition (modality, gateway,                                                                             A         A           A
                                                                                                                                                            -
       PACS, workstation, archive)
8.1.4 System Downtime Procedures                                                                                        A         A           B             -
8.2 Digital Imaging Process                                                                                              -         -           -            -
8.2.1 Query Modality Worklist                                                                                           a         2b           -            -
8.2.2 Transmit exams (PACS, 3D, QC)                                                                                     a         2b           -            -
8.2.3 Perform Image Manipulation                                                                                        a         2b           -            -
8.2.4 Verify Transmission                                                                                               a         2b           -            -
8.2.5 Export to Media                                                                                                   a         2b           -            -
8.3 PACS Administration
8.3.1 Configure:                                                                                                         -         -           -            -
8.3.1.1 Modality Destination                                                                                             -         -           -            -
8.3.1.2 PACS Routing                                                                                                     -         -           -            -
8.3.1.3 Telerad                                                                                                          -         -           -            -
8.3.1.4 Archive                                                                                                          -         -           -            -
8.3.1.5 Workstations                                                                                                     -         -           -            -
8.3.2 Troubleshooting                                                                                                    -         -           -            -
8.3.2.1 Perform DICOM Image test                                                                                         -         -           -            -
8.3.2.2 Check Services                                                                                                   -         -           -            -
8.3.2.3 Identify Transmission Failures                                                                                   -         -           -            -
8.3.3 Exam Maintenance                                                                                                   -         -           -            -
8.3.3.1 Splitting                                                                                                        -         -           -            -
8.3.3.2 Merging                                                                                                          -         -           -            -
8.3.3.3 Deleting                                                                                                         -         -           -            -
8.3.3.4 Perform Query/Retrieve                                                                                           -         -           -            -
8.3.4 Manage User Profiles
8.3.4.1 Create                                                                                                           -         -           -            -
8.3.4.2 Modify                                                                                                           -         -           -            -
8.3.4.3 Delete                                                                                                           -         -           -            -
8.3.5. Manage Quality Control on:                                                                                        -         -           -            -
8.3.5.1 Processor/Imaging Plates                                                                                         -         -           -            -
8.3.5.2 Workstation monitors                                                                                             -         -           -            -
8.3.6 Import external studies                                                                                            -         -           -            -
8.3.7 Manage System Backups



                                                                              26
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical         2. Core    3. Certification for OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                          /Wartime
References                                Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided

                                                                                                                                          B             C
                                                                                                                         A
                                                      A           B             C        D             E                                5-Skill      7- Skill
STS 4R0X1                                                                                                           3- Skill Level
                                                                                                                                        Level         Level
                                                     Trng      Trng        Trainee    Trainer    Task Certifier              Phase
                                                                                                                  Phase I                CDC              OJT
                                                     Start   Complete      Initials   Initials      Initials                   II
8.3.7.1 Verify Backup Ran                                                                                            -         -           -               -
8.3.7.2 Store Backup media                                                                                           -          -          -               -
8.3.8 Maintain Databases
8.3.8.1 Run checklists                                                                                               -          -          -               -
8.3.8.2 Review checklist results                                                                                     -          -          -               -
8.3.9 Boot up system                                                                                                 -          -          -               -
8.3.10 Shutdown system                                                                                               -          -          -               -
8.3.11 Start/Stop/Restart Processes                                                                                  -          -          -               -
8.4. Advanced PACS Administration (N
Prefix)
8.4.1 Manage Telerad Connections                                                                                     -          -          -               -
8.4.2 Perform Image Fix ups                                                                                          -          -          -               -
8.4.3 Image Recovery                                                                                                 -          -          -               -
8.4.4 Report Recovery                                                                                                -          -          -               -
8.4.5 Remote Telerad Support                                                                                         -          -          -               -
8.4.5.1 Troubleshooting                                                                                              -          -          -               -
8.4.5.2 Configuration                                                                                                -          -          -               -
8.4.6 Operating System Training Courses                                                                              -          -          -
                                                                                                                                                           -
(PACS System Specific)
8.4.7 Manage System Performance                                                                                      -          -          -               -
8.4.7.1 Prioritize exam storage                                                                                      -          -          -               -
8.4.7.2 Prioritize Exam retrieval                                                                                    -          -          -               -
8.5 IDC Administration
8.5.1 Data Synchronization                                                                                           -          -          -               -
8.5.1.1 Split studies                                                                                                -          -          -               -
8.5.1.2 Merged studies                                                                                               -          -          -               -
8.5.1.3 Segmented studies                                                                                            -          -          -               -
8.5.1.4 Add object/presentation state                                                                                -          -          -               -
8.5.1.5 DICOM attribute changes                                                                                      -          -          -               -
8.5.1.6 Object deleted                                                                                               -          -          -               -
8.5.2 Manage
8.5.2.1 Patients                                                                                                     -          -          -               -
8.5.2.2 Studies                                                                                                      -          -          -               -
8.5.2.3 Series                                                                                                       -          -          -               -
8.5.2.4 Images                                                                                                       -          -          -               -
8.5.3 Delete objects                                                                                                 -          -          -               -
8.5.4 Restore objects                                                                                                -          -          -               -
8.5.5 Maintain Database
8.5.5.1 Run checklists                                                                                               -          -          -               -
8.5.5.2 Review checklist results                                                                                     -          -          -
8.5.6 Boot up system                                                                                                 -          -          -               -
8.5.7 Shutdown system                                                                                                -          -          -               -
8.5.8 Restart system                                                                                                 -          -          -               -


                                                                          27
          1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical              2. Core    3. Certification for OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                         /Wartime
          References                                     Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided

                                                                                                                                                         B             C
                                                                                                                                        A
                                                                     A           B             C        D             E                                5-Skill      7- Skill
          STS 4R0X1                                                                                                                3- Skill Level
                                                                                                                                                       Level         Level
                                                                    Trng      Trng        Trainee    Trainer    Task Certifier              Phase
                                                                                                                                 Phase I                CDC          OJT
                                                                    Start   Complete      Initials   Initials      Initials                   II
          9. IMAGING SERVICE
             ADMINISTRATION
          9.1 Process imaging requests                      *                                                                       -         2b          -              -
          9.2 JRCERT Accreditation requirements                                                                                    A           -          -              -
          9.3 Process improvement in radiology
                                                                                                                                    -          -          -              -
               TR: AFI 44-119
          10. TECHNICAL ASPECTS OF
              RADIOLOGY
              TR: Radiologic Science for Technologists
              (Current Ed)
          10.1 Radiation physics                                                                                                   B          B           B              -
          10.2 X-Ray imaging systems                                                                                               B           -          B                  -
          10.3 X-Ray production
                                                                                                                                   B          B           B              -
          10.4 Operate fixed and mobile radiographic
               equipment                                                                                                           2b         3c          c              -

          10.5 Radiobiology
                                                                                                                                   A          B           B              -
          10.6 Beam Restriction
                                                                                                                                   B          B           B              -
          10.7 Control scatter radiation
                                                            *                                                                      2b         3b          c              -
          10.8 Grids
                                                                                                                                   B          B           B              -
          10.9 Film printing
                                                                                                                                    -          -          -              -
          11. IMAGE ACQUISITION
              TR: Radiologic Science for
              Technologists (Current Ed)
          11.1 Characteristics of film and screen
Charact                                                                                                                            B           -          B              -

          11.2 Select prime exposure factors
                                                            *                                                                      2b         3b          c              -
          11.3 Image quality evaluation
                                                                                                                                   A          B           B              -
          11.4 Employ appropriate beam-part-receptor
                                                                                                                                   2b         3c          c              -
               alignment
          11.5 Digital radiography

          11.5.1 Computed radiography (CR)
                                                                                                                                   B          B           B              -
          11.5.2 Acquire images using computed
                 radiography (CR)                                                                                                  2b         2b          b              -

          11.5.3 Direct radiography (DR)                                                                                           A          B           B              -
          11.5.4 Acquire images using direct
                                                                                                                                    -          -          b              -
                 radiography (DR)
          11.6 Image intensified fluoroscopy                                                                                       A          B           B              -
          11.7 Digital fluoroscopy                                                                                                 B          B           B              -
          12. IMAGE PROCESSING
              TR: Radiologic Science for
              Technologists (Current Ed)
          12.1 Film processing                                                                                                     A           -         A               -
          12.2 Digital imaging process concepts                                                                                    B          B           B              -
          12.3 Process digital images                                                                                              2b         3c          c              -




                                                                                         28
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical              2. Core    3. Certification for OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                               /Wartime
References                                     Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                               B             C
                                                                                                                              A
                                                           A           B             C        D             E                                5-Skill      7- Skill
STS 4R0X1                                                                                                                3- Skill Level
                                                                                                                                             Level         Level
                                                          Trng      Trng        Trainee    Trainer    Task Certifier              Phase
                                                                                                                       Phase I               CDC           OJT
                                                          Start   Complete      Initials   Initials      Initials                   II
13. QUALITY MANAGEMENT
    TR: Radiologic Science for
    Technologists (Current Ed); Quality
    Management in the Imaging Sciences
    (Current Ed)
13.1 Quality assurance                                                                                                   A           -         B               -
13.2 Quality control
13.2.1 Monitoring equipment performance                                                                                   a         2b         b               -
13.2.2 Inspect image receptors                                                                                            a         3b         c               -
13.2.3 Perform lead protective devices check                                                                              -         2b          -              -
13.2.4 Perform image quality control                                                                                     1a         2b         c
13.3 Clean image receptors                                                                                                a         2b         c               -
13.4 Perform repeat image analysis                                                                                        -          -         c               -
13.5 Radiographic Film Critique                                                                                          B
14. ANATOMY, PHYSIOLOGY, AND
    PATHOLOGY
    TR: Principles of Anatomy and
    Physiology (Current Ed)
14.1 Medical Terminology                                                                                                                                       -
14.1.1 Root, prefix, and suffix                                                                                          B                                     -
14.1.2 Common medical terms                                                                                              A                                     -
14.2 Body Planes and Positioning                                                                                         A                                     -
14.3 Organization of the body                                                                                            A          B          B               -
14.4 Structure, function, and pathology of
     body systems
14.4.1 Osteology                                                                                                         A          B          B               -
14.4.2 Muscular                                                                                                          A           -         B               -
14.4.3 Respiratory                                                                                                       A          B          B               -
14.4.4 Cardiovascular                                                                                                    A          B          B               -
14.4.5 Digestive                                                                                                         A          B          B               -
14.4.6 Urinary                                                                                                           A          B          B               -
14.4.7 Nervous
                                                                                                                         A          B          B               -
14.4.8 Endocrine
                                                                                                                         A           -         A               -
14.4.9 Reproductive                                                                                                      A          B          B               -
14.5 Sectional anatomy
TR: Merrill’s Atlas of Radiographic                                                                                      A          A          A               -
 Positioning & Procedures, (Current Ed)
15. ROUTINE IMAGING
    TR: : Merrill’s Atlas of Radiographic
    Positioning & Procedures, (Current Ed);
    Radiographic Positioning and Related
Anatomy (Current Ed)
15.1 Produce images of the
15.1.1 Upper extremities                          *                                                                      2b         3c         c               -
15.1.2 Shoulder girdle                            *                                                                      2b         3c         c               -
15.1.3 Lower extremities                          *                                                                      2b         3c         c               -




                                                                               29
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical             2. Core    3. Certification for OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                              /Wartime
References                                    Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              B             C
                                                                                                                              A
STS 4R0X1                                                 A           B             C        D             E                                5-Skill      7- Skill
                                                                                                                         3- Skill Level
                                                                                                                                            Level         Level
                                                         Trng      Trng        Trainee    Trainer    Task Certifier                Phase
                                                                                                                      Phase I                CDC           OJT
                                                         Start   Complete      Initials   Initials      Initials                     II
15.1.4 Pelvic girdle                             *                                                                       2b         3c         c            -
15.1.5 Chest                                     *                                                                      2b        3c           c            -
15.1.6 Abdomen                                   *                                                                      2b        3c           c            -
15.1.7 Vertebral column                          *                                                                      2b        3c           c            -
15.1.8 Ribs                                                                                                             2b        3c           c            -
15.1.9 Sternum                                                                                                           b         b           c            -
15.1.10 Skull                                                                                                           2b        2b           c            -
15.1.11 Sinuses                                                                                                         2b        2b           c            -
15.1.12 Facial bones                                                                                                    2b        2b           c            -
15.1.13 Mastoids and petrous pyramids                                                                                    -         -           -            -
16. SPEICAL IMAGING
    TR: Merrill’s Atlas of Radiographic
    Positioning & Procedures (Current Ed);
    Radiographic Positioning and Related
    Anatomy (Current Ed)
16.1 Perform procedures for:
16.1.1 Alimentary tract
 TR: Merrill’s Atlas of Radiographic                                                                                    2b         b           c            -
 Positioning & Procedures
16.1.2 Biliary tract                                                                                                     -         -           a            -
16.1.3 Genitourinary tract                                                                                              2b         -           c             -
16.1.4 Arthrograms
                                                                                                                         a        2b           b            -
16.1.5 Orthoroentgenography (Scanography)
                                                                                                                         -        1a           a            -
16.1.6 Mobile imaging
                                                                                                                        1b        3c           -            -
       TR: Local Operator’s Manual
16.2 Myelography
                                                                                                                         a         -           b            -
16.3 Bone Densitometry
                                                                                                                         -         a           b            -
16.4 Diagnostic Imaging modality
                                                                                                                        A
       Introduction
17. PATIENT CARE
    TR: Patient Care in Radiography
    (Current Ed)
17.1 Professionalism and patient
      relationships
      TR: Merrill’s Atlas of Radiographic
      Positioning & Procedures
17.1.1 Professional standards of ethics
                                                                                                                        A          B          B             -
17.1.2 Professional relations with patients
                                                                                                                        A          B          B             -
       and medical personnel
17.1.3 Privacy Act and patient information
                                                                                                                        A          B          B             -
       TR: AFI 33-332
17.1.4 Demonstrate professional verbal and
                                                                                                                         -        2b           -            -
       written communication skills
17.2 Patient preparation and education
                                                                                                                        A          B           -            -
17.3 Patient safety/special needs
                                                                                                                        A          B           -            -
17.4 Monitor vital signs
                                                                                                                         -        2b           c            -




                                                                              30
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical                 2. Core    3. Certification for OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  /Wartime
References                                        Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                  B             C
                                                                                                                                  A
                                                              A           B             C        D             E                                5-Skill      7- Skill
STS 4R0X1                                                                                                                    3- Skill Level
                                                                                                                                                Level         Level
                                                             Trng      Trng        Trainee    Trainer    Task Certifier                Phase
                                                                                                                          Phase I                CDC           OJT
                                                             Start   Complete      Initials   Initials      Initials                     II
17.5 Use proper body mechanics for patient
                                                                                                                            2b        3c           -            -
     movement
17.6 Transport patients                                                                                                     2b        2b           -            -
17.7 Use IV Precautions                                                                                                      a        2b           -            -
17.8 Monitor patients                                                                                                        a        2b           c            -
17.9 Contrast Media                                                                                                         A          B          B             -
17.10 Administer contrast media                                                                                              -         -           -            -
17.10.1 Oral                                                                                                                 -         -           -            -
17.10.2 Rectal                                                                                                               -         -           -            -
17.10.3 Intravenous                                                                                                          -         -           -            -
17.11 Perform venipuncture                                                                                                   a        2b           b
17.12 Documenting contrast media
                                                                                                                            A          -          A             -
      administration (charting medications)
17.13 Contrast media reactions                                                                                              A          B          B             -
17.14 Perform cardiopulmonary
       resuscitation                                 *                                                                       -        3c           -            -
17.15 Emergency equipment and supplies
                                                                                                                             -         -           -            -
      (“crash cart”)
18. INFECTION CONTROL
    TR: Patient Care in Radiography;
    Merrill’s Atlas of Radiographic
    Positioning & Radiologic Procedure
    (Current Ed); Radiographic Positioning
    and Related Anatomy (Current Ed)
18.1 Concepts of Infection Control                                                                                          A          B          B             -
18.2 Employ standard precautions                                                                                             a        3b           c            -
18.3 Perform aseptic techniques                                                                                              -        2b           -            -
18.4 Employ transmission-based precautions                                                                                   -        2b           c            -
18.5 Performs equipment cleaning                                                                                            1b        3c                        -
19. COMPUTED TOMOGRAPHY
     PROCEDURES (SEI 478)
    TR: Merrill’s Atlas of Radiographic
    Positioning & Radiologic Procedures
    (Current Ed); Computed Tomography:                                                                                                                          -
    Physical Principles, Clinical Applications,
    and Quality Control (Current Ed);
   Radiographic Positioning and Related
    Anatomy (Current Ed)
19.1 Safety in CT
19.1.1 Radiation safety                                                                                                     A          A          A             -
19.1.2 Mechanical safety                                                                                                     -         A           -            -
19.1.3 Laser safety                                                                                                          -         A           -            -
19.2 Physics of CT
19.2.1 Image formation                                                                                                      A          A          B             -
19.2.2 Data acquisition                                                                                                     A          A          B             -
19.2.3 Attenuation Coefficient                                                                                              A          A          A             -
19.2.4 Data processing                                                                                                      A          A          B             -
19.3 CT Components                                                                                                          A          A          A             -

19.4 CT Sectional anatomy
19.4.1 Head
                                                                                                                            A          A          A             -

                                                                                  31
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical           2. Core    3. Certification for OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                            /Wartime
References                                  Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                            B             C
                                                                                                                            A
                                                        A           B             C        D             E                                5-Skill      7- Skill
STS 4R0X1                                                                                                              3- Skill Level
                                                                                                                                          Level         Level
                                                       Trng      Trng        Trainee    Trainer    Task Certifier                Phase
                                                                                                                    Phase I                CDC           OJT
                                                       Start   Complete      Initials   Initials      Initials                     II
19.4.2 Neck
                                                                                                                           -     -           -            -
19.4.3 Chest                                                                                                           -         -           -            -
19.4.4 Abdomen                                                                                                        A          A          A             -
19.4.5 Pelvis                                                                                                          -         A          A             -
19.4.6 Spine                                                                                                           -         -           -            -
19.4.7 Extremities                                                                                                     -         -           -            -
19.5 Pathology
19.6 CT operation
19.6.1 Start CT unit                                                                                                   -         -           -            -
19.6.2 Shutdown CT unit                                                                                                -         -           -            -
19.6.3 Perform Emergency shutdown                                                                                      -         -           -            -
19.6.4 Perform Tube warm-up                                                                                            -         -           -            -
19.6.5 Calibrate CT unit                                                                                               -         -           -            -
19.6.6 Transmit CT images                                                                                              -         -           -            -
19.6.7 Perform CT quality assurance tests                                                                              -         -           -            -
19.7 Obtain CT images of the:
19.7.1 Head
                                                                                                                       -        2b           -            -
19.7.2 Paranasal sinuses                                                                                               -         -           -            -
19.7.3 Orbits                                                                                                          -         -           -            -
19.7.4 Temporal bone                                                                                                   -         -           -            -
19.7.5 IAC                                                                                                             -         -           -            -
19.7.6 Neck                                                                                                            -         -           -            -
19.7.7 C-spine                                                                                                         -         -           -            -
19.7.8 T-spine                                                                                                         -         -           -            -
19.7.9 L/S-spine                                                                                                       -         -           -            -
19.7.10 Abdomen                                                                                                        -        2b           -            -
19.7.11 Kidneys                                                                                                        -         -           -            -
19.7.12 Adrenals                                                                                                       -         -           -            -
19.7.13 Spleen                                                                                                         -         -           -            -
19.7.14 Pancreas                                                                                                       -         -           -            -
19.7.15 Pelvis                                                                                                         -        2b           -            -
19.7.16 S-I joints                                                                                                     -         -           -            -
19.7.17 Chest                                                                                                          -         -           -            -
19.7.18 Aorta                                                                                                          -         -           -            -
19.7.19 Shoulder/humerus
                                                                                                                       -         -           -            -
19.7.20 Elbow/forearm
                                                                                                                       -         -           -            -
19.7.21 Wrist/hand
                                                                                                                       -         -           -            -
19.7.22 Femur/hip
                                                                                                                       -         -           -            -
19.7.23 Knee/tibfib
                                                                                                                       -         -           -            -
19.7.24 Ankle/foot                                                                                                     -         -           -            -
19.8 Assist radiologist with CT procedure


                                                                            32
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical               2. Core    3. Certification for OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                /Wartime
References                                      Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                B             C
                                                                                                                                A
STS 4R0X1                                                   A           B             C        D             E                                5-Skill      7- Skill
                                                                                                                           3- Skill Level
                                                                                                                                              Level         Level
                                                           Trng       Trng       Trainee    Trainer    Task Certifier                Phase
                                                                                                                        Phase I                CDC           OJT
                                                           Start    Complete     Initials   Initials      Initials                     II
19.9 General CT imaging parameters
19.9.1 Adjust windows/levels                                                                                               -        2b           b            -
19.9.2 Set field of view                                                                                                   -         -           -            -
19.9.3 Obtain part measurements                                                                                            -         -           -            -
19.9.4 Obtain region of interest                                                                                           -         -           -            -
19.10 Reconstruct image                                                                                                    -         -           -            -
19.11 Reformat image                                                                                                       -         -           -            -
19.12 CT contrast agents
19.12.1 Types of Contrast                                                                                                  -         -           -            -
19.12.2 Adverse reactions to contrast agents                                                                               -         -           -            -
19.12.3 Contraindications to contrast agents.                                                                              -         -           -            -
19.13 Operate power injector                                                                                               -         -           -            -
19.14 CT angiography
19.14.1 Vascular anatomy
                                                                                                                           -         -           -            -
19.14.2 Adjust injection rates
                                                                                                                           -         -           -            -
19.14.3 Perform CT multiphasic examination
                                                                                                                           -         -           -            -
19.15 Patient preparation
                                                                                                                           -         -          A             -
19.16 Special considerations for pediatric CT
                                                                                                                           -         -           -            -
20. CARDIOVASCULAR AND
  INTERVENTIONAL PROCEDURES
  (SEI 479)
  TR: Merrill’s Atlas of Radiographic
  Positioning & Radiologic Procedures
  (Current Ed)

20.1 Operate imaging equipment and
                                                                                                                           -         -           -            -
     peripherals
20.1.1 Operate single and biplane generators
                                                                                                                           -         -           -            -
20.1.2 Operate digital subtraction units
                                                                                                                           -         -           -            -
20.1.3 Operate pressure injector
                                                                                                                           -         -           -            -
20.1.4 Obtain photospot images
                                                                                                                           -         -           -            -
20.1.5 Record video image
                                                                                                                           -         -           -            -
20.1.6 Operate display monitor
                                                                                                                           -         -           -            -
20.1.7 Operate procedure table
                                                                                                                           -         -           -            -
20.1.8 Operate digital fluoroscopic image
                                                                                                                           -         -           -            -
       intensifier
20.2 Operate patient support equipment
                                                                                                                           -         -           -            -
20.2.1 Operate electrocardiograph monitor
                                                                                                                           -         -           -            -
20.2.2 Operate external blood pressure
                                                                                                                           -         -           -            -
        monitor
20.2.3 Operate internal blood pressure
        monitor                                                                                                            -         -           -            -
20.2.4 Operate oxygen saturation monitor                                                                                   -         -           -            -
20.2.5 Operate intravascular infusion pump                                                                                 -         -           -            -

                                                                                 33
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical             2. Core    3. Certification for OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                              /Wartime
References                                    Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              B             C
                                                                                                                              A
STS 4R0X1                                                 A           B             C        D             E                                5-Skill      7- Skill
                                                                                                                         3- Skill Level
                                                                                                                                            Level         Level
                                                         Trng       Trng       Trainee    Trainer    Task Certifier                Phase
                                                                                                                      Phase I                CDC           OJT
                                                         Start    Complete     Initials   Initials      Initials                     II
20.2.6 Operate cardiac defibrillator                                                                                      -          -         -            -
20.2.7 Operate resuscitator                                                                                              -         -           -            -
20.2.8 Operate oxygen delivery system                                                                                    -         -           -            -
20.2.9 Operate suction devices                                                                                           -         -           -            -
20.3 Procedure responsibility
20.3.1 Procedure preparation                                                                                             -         -           -            -
20.3.1.1 Prepare procedure tray                                                                                          -         -           -            -
20.3.1.2 Employ sterile technique                                                                                        -         -           -            -
20.3.1.3 Prepare entry site                                                                                              -         -           -            -
20.3.1.4 Prepare equipment                                                                                               -         -           -            -
20.3.2 Patient care
20.3.2.1 Apply dressing                                                                                                  -         -           -            -
20.3.2.2 Manipulate drainage catheters                                                                                   -         -           -            -
20.3.3 Monitor patient vital signs
                                                                                                                         -         -           -            -
20.3.4 Assess patient lab results
                                                                                                                         -         -           -            -
20.3.5 Pharmacology (www.Lexi.com)

20.3.5.1 Prepare pre-procedural medications
                                                                                                                         -         -           -            -
20.3.5.2 Prepare intra-procedural
                                                                                                                         -         -           -            -
         medications
20.3.5.3 Respond to adverse effects
                                                                                                                         -         -           -            -
20.3.5.4 Contrast media
                                                                                                                         -         -           _
                                                                                                                                                            -
20.3.5.4.1 Determine dose limits
                                                                                                                         -         -           -            -
20.3.5.4.2 Identify contrast reactions
                                                                                                                         -         -           -            -
20.3.6 Verify consent form
                                                                                                                         -         -           -            -
20.3.7 Identify IR catheters
                                                                                                                         -         -           -            -
20.3.8 Identify IR wires
                                                                                                                         -         -           -            -
20.3.9 Identify needles
                                                                                                                         -         -           -            -
20.3.10 Identify accessories
                                                                                                                         -         -           -            -
20.4 Cardiovascular anatomy

20.4.1 Extremities                                                                                                       -         -           -            -
20.4.2 Head                                                                                                              -         -           -            -
20.4.3 Neck                                                                                                              -         -           -            -
20.4.4 Chest                                                                                                             -         -           -            -
20.4.5 Abdomen                                                                                                           -         -           -            -
20.4.6 Pelvis                                                                                                            -         -           -            -
20.4.7 Secondary vessels
                                                                                                                         -         -           -            -
20.4.8 Tertiary vessels                                                                                                  -         -           -            -
20.4.9 Vascular pathology                                                                                                -         -           -            -
20.5 Assist with Cardiovascular
     interventional procedures
                                                                               34
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical        2. Core    3. Certification for OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                         /Wartime
References                               Tasks                                                                    Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                          B             C
                                                                                                                         A
                                                     A           B             C         D             E                                5-Skill      7- Skill
STS 4R0X1                                                                                                           3- Skill Level
                                                                                                                                        Level         Level
                                                    Trng       Trng        Trainee    Trainer    Task Certifier              Phase
                                                                                                                  Phase I               CDC           OJT
                                                    Start    Complete      Initials   Initials      Initials                   II
20.5.1 Arteriography                                                                                                 -          -          -              -
20.5.1.1 Abdominal aorta                                                                                             -          -          -              -
20.5.1.2 Renal                                                                                                       -          -          -              -
20.5.1.3 Celiac                                                                                                      -          -          -              -
20.5.1.4 Hepatic                                                                                                     -          -          -              -
20.5.1.5 Splenic                                                                                                     -          -          -              -
20.5.1.6 Mesenteric                                                                                                  -          -          -              -
20.5.1.7 Pelvic                                                                                                      -          -          -              -
20.5.1.8 Thoracic aorta                                                                                              -          -          -              -
20.5.1.9 Carotids                                                                                                    -          -          -              -
20.5.1.10 Vertebral arteries                                                                                         -          -          -              -
20.5.1.11 Subclavian arteries                                                                                        -          -          -              -
20.5.1.12 Intracranial vessels                                                                                       -          -          -              -
20.5.1.13 Extracranial vessels                                                                                       -          -          -              -
20.5.1.14 Upper extremities
                                                                                                                     -          -          -              -
20.5.1.15 Lower extremities (run-off)
                                                                                                                     -          -          -              -
20.5.1.16 Pulmonary
                                                                                                                     -          -          -              -
20.5.2 Venography

20.5.2.1 Portal
                                                                                                                     -          -          -              -
20.5.2.2 Upper extremity
                                                                                                                     -          -          -              -
20.5.2.3 Lower extremity
                                                                                                                     -          -
20.5.2.4 Vena cava
                                                                                                                     -          -          -              -
20.5.3 Fistula evaluation
                                                                                                                     -          -          -              -
20.5.4 Shunt evaluation
                                                                                                                     -          -          -              -
20.5.5 Recanalization procedures
                                                                                                                     -          -          -              -
20.5.6 Thrombolic infusion
                                                                                                                     -          -          -              -
20.5.7 Embolotherapy
                                                                                                                     -          -          -              -
20.5.8 Venous filter procedures
                                                                                                                     -          -          -              -
20.5.9 Biliary intervention
                                                                                                                     -          -          -              -
20.5.10 Genitourinary intervention
                                                                                                                     -          -          -              -
20.5.11 Needle biopsy procedures
                                                                                                                     -          -          -              -
20.5.12 Percutaneous abscess drainage
                                                                                                                     -          -          -              -
20.5.13 Percutaneous gastrostomy
                                                                                                                     -          -          -              -
20.5.14 Percutaneous nephrostomy
                                                                                                                     -          -          -              -
20.5.15 Foreign body retrieval                                                                                       -          -          -              -
20.5.16 Vascular pressure measurements
                                                                                                                     -          -          -              -


                                                                          35
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical        2. Core    3. Certification for OJT                                          4. Training Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                         /Wartime
References                               Tasks                                                                        Training/Information Provided

                                                                                                                        A         B           C         D
                                                                                                                        3-      5-Skill     7-Skill    AZO
STS 4R0X1                                             A            B              C          D             E
                                                                                                                      Skill     Level       level     Mammo
                                                                                                                      level      CDC                  Course
                                                    Trng         Trng          Trainee    Trainer    Task Certifier
                                                    Start      Complete        Initials   Initials      Initials
21. MAMMOGRAPHY
    PROCEDURES (SEI 460)
    TR: Merrill’s Atlas of
    Radiographic Positioning &
                                                                                                                                                      AZO Mammo
    Radiologic Procedures (Current
    Ed); ACR Guidelines; FDA: The
    Mammography Quality Standards
    Act Final Regulations
21.1 Routine mammography
21.1.1 Obtain craniocaudad (CC)                                                                                                       -
         images                            *                                                                            -                      -            3c
21.1.2 Obtain mediolateral oblique                                                                                                    -
        (MLO) images                       *                                                                            -                      -            3c
21.2 Additional procedures                                                                                              -             -        -             -
21.2.1 Perform spot compression                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                        -                      -             c
      images
21.2.2 Perform magnification images                                                                                     -             -        -             c
21.2.3 Perform exaggerated                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                        -                      -             b
        craniocaudad images
21.2.4 Perform cleavage images                                                                                          -             -        -             b
21.2.5 Perform axillary tail images                                                                                     -             -        -             c
21.2.6 Perform tangential images                                                                                        -             -        -             b
21.2.7 Perform rolled view                                                                                              -             -        -             b
21.2.8 Perform augmented breast                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                        -                      -             b
        (implants) images
21.2.9 Perform 90-degree lateral                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                        -                      -             b
         images
21.2.10 Perform lateromedial (LM)                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                        -                      -             b
         images
21.2.11 Perform lateral medial oblique                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                        -                      -             b
         (LMO) images
21.2.12 Perform caudocranial (reverse                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                        -                      -             b
         CC) images
21.2.13 Perform superolateral to
                                                                                                                        -                      -             b
         inferomedial oblique images                                                                                                  -
21.2.14 Perform post-mastectomy
                                                                                                                        -                      -             b
         images                                                                                                                       -
21.3 Special procedures

21.3.1 Provide stereotactic biopsy                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                        -                      -             a
        assistance
21.3.2 Provide needle localization                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                        -                      -             a
          assistance
21.3.3 Perform aseptic
                                                                                                                        -                      -             a
        techniques/sterile procedures                                                                                                 -
21.3.4 Provide breast sonography
                                                                                                                        -                      -             a
       assistance                                                                                                                     -
21.4 ACR guidelines, accreditation
      standards, and quality assurance
21.4.1 Technologist and radiologist
                                                                                                                        -                      -             B
         requirements                                                                                                                 -
21.4.2 Frequency of tests
                                                                                                                        -                      -             B
                                                                                                                                      -
21.4.3 Perform tests

21.4.3.1 Compression test
                                                                                                                        -                      -             b
                                                                                                                                  -




                                                                                  36
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical             2. Core    3. Certification for OJT                                     4. Training Proficiency Codes Used To
                                              /Wartime
References                                    Tasks                                                                   Indicate Training/Information Provided

                                                                                                                         A        B         C             D
                                                                                                                      3-Skill   5-Skill   7-Skill        AZO
STS 4R0X1                                                 A           B             C        D             E
                                                                                                                       level    Level     level         Mammo
                                                                                                                                 CDC                    Course
                                                         Trng       Trng       Trainee    Trainer    Task Certifier
                                                         Start    Complete     Initials   Initials      Initials
21.4.3.2 Phantom test
                                                                                                                         -                     -               3c
                                                                                                                                   -
21.4.3.3 Viewboxes
                                                                                                                         -                     -               b
                                                                                                                                   -
21.4.3.4 Sensitometry test                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                         -                     -               3c
21.4.3.5 Detector (flat field)                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                         -                     -               b
21.4.3.6 Signal to noise ratio (SNR)                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                         -                     -               b
21.4.3.7 Contrast to noise ratio (CNR)                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                         -                     -               b
21.4.3.8 Modulation transfer function (MTF)                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                         -                     -               b
21.4.4 Conduct repeat analysis                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                         -                     -               b
21.4.5 Visual checklist (mammography unit)                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                         -                     -               b
21.4.6 Inspect image receptors                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                         -                     -               b
21.4.7 Test laser film printer                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                         -                     -               b
21.4.8 Clean monitor
                                                                                                                         -         -           -               b
21.5 Breast Anatomy and physiology
                                                                                                                         -        A            -               B
21.6 Breast cancer Risk factors
                                                                                                                         -        A            -               B
21.7 Benefits of Mammography                                                                                                      A
                                                                                                                         -                     -               B
21.8 Image artifacts                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                         -                     -               C
21.9 Computer-Aided Detection (CAD)                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                         -                     -               A




                                                                               37
                                                                   Attachment 3
                                                             Nuclear Medicine, A Shred
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References          2. Core    3. Certification for OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                      /Wartime
                                                      Tasks                                                                    Training/Information Provided

                                                                                                                                                     B           C
                                                                                                                                      A
                                                                  A           B             C         D             E                              5-Skill    7- Skill
STS 4R0X1A                                                                                                                       3- Skill Level
                                                                                                                                                   Level       Level
                                                                 Trng       Trng        Trainee    Trainer    Task Certifier   Phase     Phase
                                                                                                                                                    CDC        OJT
                                                                 Start    Complete      Initials   Initials      Initials        I         II
22. NUCLEAR MEDICINE (A-shred)
    TR: Nuclear Medicine Technology and
    Techniques (Current Ed); Introductory Physics
    of Nuclear Medicine (Current Ed); Principles
    and Practices of Nuclear Medicine (Current Ed);
    Essentials of Nuclear Medicine Imaging
    (Current Ed); Practical Nuclear Medicine
    (Current Ed); Review of Nuclear Medicine
    Technology (Current Ed)
22.1 Bone scan imaging
22.1.1 Obtain three phase images                         *                                                                       b         3c         -          -
22.1.2 Obtain whole body planar images
                                                         *                                                                       b         3c         -          -
22.2 Endocrine imaging
22.2.1 Obtain thyroid images                                                                                                     b         3c
                                                         *                                                                                            -          -
22.2.2 Assess thyroid uptake                                                                                                     b         3c
                                                         *                                                                                            -          -
22.2.3 Obtain metastatic thyroid images                                                                                          b         2b
                                                                                                                                                      -          -
22.2.4 Obtain parathyroid images                                                                                                 b         2b
                                                                                                                                                      -          -
22.2.5 Obtain adrenal images                                                                                                     b         1b
                                                                                                                                                      -          -
22.3 Central nervous system Imaging

22.3.1 Obtain planar brain scan images                                                                                           a         1a
                                                                                                                                                      -          -
22.3.2 Obtain brain flow images                                                                                                  a         1a
                                                                                                                                                      -          -
22.3.3 Obtain brain death images                                                                                                 a          a
                                                                                                                                                      -          -
22.3.4 Evaluate shunts                                                                                                           a          a
                                                                                                                                                      -          -
22.3.5 Obtain cerebral spinal fluid (CSF)                                                                                        a         1a
                                                                                                                                                      -          -
      cisternography images
22.4 Pulmonary imaging
22.4.1 Obtain perfusion images                           *                                                                       b         3c         -          -
22.4.2 Obtain ventilation or Aerosol images              *                                                                       b         3c         -          -
22.4.3 Obtain quantitative (split lung) images                                                                                   b         2b         -          -
22.5 Gastrointestinal and hepatobiliary imaging
22.5.1 Obtain liver images                               *                                                                       b         3c         -          -
22.5.2 Obtain spleen images                              *                                                                       b         3c         -          -
22.5.3 Assess hepatobiliary function                     *                                                                       b         3c         -          -
22.5.4 Gastroesophageal imaging
22.5.4.1 Assess gastric emptying                         *                                                                       b         3c         -          -
22.5.4.2 Evaluate esophageal transit                                                                                             a          b         -          -
22.5.4.3 Evaluate gastroesophageal reflux                                                                                        a          b         -          -
22.5.5 Obtain GI bleed images                            *                                                                       b         3c         -          -
22.5.6 Detect Meckel’s diverticulum                                                                                              a         2b         -          -
22.6 Tumor and infection imaging




                                                                                  38
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References      2. Core    3. Certification for OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  /Wartime
                                                  Tasks                                                              Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                           B
                                                                                                                                                       C
                                                                                                                            A              5-
STS 4R0X1A                                                    A           B             C        D          E                                       7- Skill
                                                                                                                       3- Skill Level     Skill
                                                                                                                                                     Level
                                                                                                                                          Level
                                                                                                          Task
                                                             Trng      Trng        Trainee    Trainer                           Phase
                                                                                                         Certifier   Phase I               CDC        OJT
                                                             Start   Complete      Initials   Initials                            II
                                                                                                         Initials
22.6.1 Obtain Gallium-67 images                      *                                                                  b         3c         -          -
22.6.2 Obtain Iodine-131 MIBG images                                                                                    a         1a         -          -
22.6.3 Obtain Indium-111 Monoclonal                                                                                     b         3c
        antibodies;white blood cells (MABS)                                                                                                  -          -
        images
22.6.4 Obtain Indium-111 WBC images                                                                                     b         3c
                                                     *
22.6.5 Obtain breast images                                                                                             a         a
                                                                                                                                             -          -
22.6.6 Obtain lymphoscintigraphic images                                                                                b         2b
                                                                                                                                             -          -
22.6.7 Obtain sentinel node images                                                                                      b         3b
                                                                                                                                             -          -
22.7 Renal and Genitourinary imaging

22.7.1 Renal imaging
                                                                                                                        -          -         -          -
22.7.1.1 Assess renogram                                                                                                b         3c
                                                     *                                                                                       -          -
22.7.1.2 Compute glomerular filtration rate                                                                             b         1b
                                                                                                                                             -          -
22.7.1.3 Compute effective renal plasma                                                                                 b         3b
                                                                                                                                             -          -
         flow rate
22.7.1.4 Obtain diuretic interventional                                                                                 b         3c
                                                                                                                                             -          -
         renographic images
22.7.1.5 Obtain ACE-inhibitor interventional                                                                            b         1b
                                                                                                                                             -          -
         renographic images
22.7.1.6 Obtain dynamic perfusion images                                                                                b         3c
                                                     *                                                                                       -          -
22.7.1.7 Evaluate transplant function                                                                                   a         2b
                                                                                                                                             -          -
22.7.1.8 Obtain renal cortical images                                                                                   b         3c
                                                     *                                                                                       -          -
22.7.2 Obtain voiding cystourethrogram                                                                                  a         1b
                                                                                                                                             -          -
       images
22.7.3 Obtain testicular images                                                                                         a          -
                                                                                                                                             -          -
22.8 Planar cardiac imaging

22.8.1 Obtain myocardial perfusion images                                                                               b         3c
                                                     *                                                                                       -          -
22.8.2 Obtain infarct avid images                                                                                       a         a
                                                                                                                                             -          -
22.8.3 Gated blood pool imaging
22.8.3.1 Acquire resting multiple gated images       *                                                                  b         3c         -          -
22.8.3.2 Acquire stress multiple gated images                                                                           a         3c         -          -
22.8.3.3 Compute ejection fraction                   *                                                                  b         2b         -          -
22.8.4. Radionuclide ventriculography
22.8.4.1 Conduct first-pass study                                                                                       a         a          -          -
22.8.4.2 Detect left-to-right shunting                                                                                  a         a          -          -
22.8.4.3 Detect right-to-left shunting                                                                                  a         a          -          -
22.9 Single photon emission computed tomography
     (SPECT) procedures
      TR: SPECT, Single Photon Computed
     Tomography, a Primer
22.9.1 Obtain cardiac images                         *                                                                  b         3c         -          -
22.9.2 Obtain gated myocardial perfusion images      *                                                                  b         3c         -          -


                                                                              39
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References          2. Core    3. Certification for OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                      /Wartime
                                                      Tasks                                                              Training/Information Provided

                                                                                                                                                  B            C
                                                                                                                                 A
                                                                  A           B             C        D          E                               5-Skill     7- Skill
STS 4R0X1A                                                                                                                  3- Skill Level
                                                                                                                                                Level        Level
                                                                                                              Task
                                                                 Trng      Trng        Trainee    Trainer
                                                                                                             Certifier   Phase I    Phase II     CDC             OJT
                                                                 Start   Complete      Initials   Initials
                                                                                                             Initials
22.9.3 Administer pharmacologic cardiac stress test                                                                         b          3c          -              -
22.9.4 Obtain bone images                                *                                                                  b          3c          -              -
22.9.5 Obtain abdomen images                                                                                                a          2b          -              -
22.9.6 Obtain thoracic images                                                                                               a          2b          -              -
22.9.7 Obtain brain images                                                                                                  a          2b          -              -
22.9.8 Obtain liver and spleen images                                                                                       a          2b          -              -
22.10 Other imaging methods

22.10.1 Obtain positron emission tomography                                                                                 a          a
                                                                                                                                                   -              -
        (PET) images
22.10.2 Obtain PET/CT images                                                                                                a          a
                                                                                                                                                   -              -
22.10.3 Obtain SPECT/CT images                                                                                              a          -
                                                                                                                                                   -              -
22.10.4 Obtain MRI fusion images                                                                                            a          -
                                                                                                                                                   -              -
22.11 Non-imaging nuclear laboratory
                                                                                                                            -          -           -              -
       procedures
22.11.1 Conduct Schilling’s test                                                                                            a          -           -              -
22.11.2 Perform therapy procedures

22.11.2.1 Administer Phosphorus-32 therapy                                                                                  a          -           -              -
22.11.2.2 Administer Strontium-89 palliative
                                                                                                                            a          -           -              -
           therapy
22.11.2.3 Administer Iodine-131 hypothyroidism
           therapy
22.11.2.3.1 Instruct patients
                                                         *                                                                  b          3c          -              -
22.11.2.3.2 Instruct staff                               *                                                                  b          3c          -              -
22.11.2.4 Administer Iodine 131 ablative therapy
                                                                                                                            -          -           -              -
22.11.2.4.1 Prepare room
                                                         *                                                                  a          2b          -              -
22.11.2.4.2 Instruct patients
                                                         *                                                                  a          2b          -              -
22.11.2.4.3 Instruct staff
                                                         *                                                                  a          2b          -              -
22.11.2.4.4 Assess patient release levels
                                                         *                                                                  a          2b          -              -
22.11.2.4.5 Decontaminate room                           *                                                                  a          2b          -              -
22.11.3 Radiopharmacy procedures
TR: Fundamentals of Nuclear Pharmacy
22.11.3.1 Apply radiopharmaceutical safety                                                                                 2b          3c
          techniques                                     *                                                                                         -              -
22.11.3.2 Radionuclide generator
22.11.3.2.1 Operate radionuclide generator               *                                                                 3c          c           -              -
22.11.3.2.2 Shield radionuclide generator                                                                                  3c          c           -              -
22.11.3.2.3 Apply elution technique                                                                                        3c          c           -              -
22.11.3.2.4 Extract radiation from wet-dry column                                                                          3c          c           -              -
22.11.3.2.5 Conduct molybdenum assay                                                                                       3c          c           -              -
22.11.3.2.6 Conduct aluminum ion testing                                                                                   3c          c           -              -
22.11.3.3. Prepare radiopharmaceutical kit
22.11.3.3.1 Apply aseptic technique                      *                                                                  b          3c          -              -
22.11.3.3.2 Maintain quality control                     *                                                                  b          3c          -              -

                                                                                  40
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References         2. Core    3. Certification for OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                     /Wartime
                                                     Tasks                                                              Training/Information Provided

                                                                                                                                                 B            C
                                                                                                                                A
                                                                 A           B             C        D          E                               5-Skill     7- Skill
STS 4R0X1A                                                                                                                 3- Skill Level
                                                                                                                                               Level        Level
                                                                                                             Task
                                                                Trng      Trng        Trainee    Trainer
                                                                                                            Certifier   Phase I    Phase II     CDC             OJT
                                                                Start   Complete      Initials   Initials
                                                                                                            Initials
22.11.3.4 Operate dose calibrator                       *                                                                 b           3c          -              -
22.11.3.5 Radiopharmaceutical handling
22.11.3.5.1 Handle radiopharmaceuticals                 *                                                                 b           3c          -              -
22.11.3.5.2 Radiopharmaceutical receipt methods
22.11.3.5.2 .1 Inspect package                                                                                            b           3c
                                                        *                                                                                         -              -
22.11.3.5.2 .2 Monitor package                                                                                            b           3c
                                                        *                                                                                         -              -
22.11.3.5.2 .3 Maintain receipt logs                                                                                      b           3c
                                                        *                                                                                         -              -
22.11.3.6 Radiopharmaceutical storage and disposal

22.11.3.6.1 Monitor decay in storage                                                                                      b           3c
                                                        *                                                                                         -              -
22.11.3.6.2 Package radiopharmaceuticals                                                                                  b           3c
                                                        *                                                                                         -              -
22.11.3.6.3 Survey disposed radiopharmaceuticals                                                                          b           3c
                                                        *                                                                                         -              -
22.11.3.6.4 Dispose radiopharmaceuticals                                                                                  b           3c
                                                                                                                                                  -              -
22.11.3.6.5 Transfer radiopharmaceuticals                                                                                 b           2b
                                                                                                                                                  -              -
22.11.3.7 Radiopharmaceutical safety

22.11.3.7.1 Operate survey instruments                                                                                    b           3c
                                                        *                                                                                         -              -
22.11.3.7.2 Conduct swipe test analysis                                                                                   b           3c
                                                        *                                                                                         -              -
22.11.3.7.3 Use syringe shields                                                                                           b           3c
                                                        *                                                                                         -              -
22.11.3.7.4 Label radiopharmaceuticals                                                                                    b           3c
                                                        *                                                                                         -              -
22.11.3.8 Inject radiopharmaceuticals
                                                        *                                                                 b           3c          -              -
22.11.3.9 Red blood cell (RBC) labeling techniques

22.11.3.9.1 Prepare in vivo labeling
                                                        *                                                                  a          2b          -              -
22.11.3.9.2 Prepare modified in vitro labeling
                                                        *                                                                  a          a           -              -
22.11.3.10 Prepare WBC labeling                                                                                            a          -           -              -
22.11.3.11 Secure lab                                   *                                                                 b           3c          -              -
22.11.3.12 Compute staff bioassay                       *                                                                 b           3c          -              -
22.11.3.13 Radiopharmaceutical dose
            calculations
22.11.3.13.1 Calculate adult dose                       *                                                                 2b          3c          -              -
22.11.3.13.2 Calculate pediatric dose                   *                                                                 2b          3c          -              -
22.12 Nuclear medicine safety
22.12.1 Prepare a personnel dosimetry program                                                                              a          -           -              -
22.12.2 Radioactive material authorizations
22.12.2.1 Renew material license                                                                                           a          -           -              -
22.12.2.2 Amend material license
                                                                                                                           a          -           -              -
22.12.2.3 Renew material permit                                                                                            a          -           -              -
22.12.2.4 Amend material permit                                                                                            a          -           -              -



                                                                                 41
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References           2. Core    3. Certification for OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                       /Wartime
                                                       Tasks                                                              Training/Information Provided

                                                                                                                                                   B            C
                                                                                                                                  A
                                                                   A           B             C        D          E                               5-Skill     7- Skill
STS 4R0X1A                                                                                                                   3- Skill Level
                                                                                                                                                 Level        Level
                                                                                                               Task
                                                                  Trng      Trng        Trainee    Trainer
                                                                                                              Certifier   Phase I    Phase II     CDC             OJT
                                                                  Start   Complete      Initials   Initials
                                                                                                              Initials
22.12.3 Determine radioactive material
                                                                                                                            2b          3c          -              -
        shielding requirements
22.12.4 Prepare radiation accident protocol
                                                                                                                             a          1b          -              -
22.12.5 Prepare misadministration protocol
                                                                                                                             a          1b          -              -
22.12.6 Post Nuclear Regulatory Commission
                                                                                                                             a          b           -              -
        (NRC) notices
22.12.7 NRC compliance

22.12.7.1 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Title
                                                                                                                            A           A           -              -
          10, Part 19
22.12.7.2 CFR Title 10, Part 20
                                                                                                                            A           A           -              -
22.12.7.3 CFR Title 10, Part 35
                                                                                                                            A           A           -              -
22.12.8 ALARA concept
                                                                                                                            A           A           -              -
22.12.9 Area survey procedures

22.12.9.1 Conduct weekly swipe test
                                                          *                                                                 b           3c          -              -
22.12.9.2 Conduct daily contamination
          survey                                          *                                                                 b           3c          -              -
22.12.10 Personnel monitoring devices
                                                                                                                            B           C           -              -
22.13 Equipment quality control

22.13.1 Uptake probe quality control
                                                                                                                             -          -           -              -
22.13.1.1 Calibrate uptake probe
                                                                                                                            2b          3b          -              -
22.13.1.2 Determine sensitivity
                                                                                                                            2b          3b          -              -
22.13.1.3 Determine crystal resolution
                                                                                                                            2b          3b          -              -
22.13.1.4 Compute chi-square results
                                                                                                                            2b          3b          -              -
22.13.1.5 Assess linearity
                                                                                                                            2b          3b          -              -
22.13.2 Gamma camera quality control

22.13.2.1 Flood fields
                                                                                                                             -          -           -              -
22.13.2.1.1 Acquire intrinsic field data                  *                                                                 b           3c          -              -
22.13.2.1.2 Acquire extrinsic field data                  *                                                                 1a          3c          -              -
22.13.2.2 Recognize field artifacts                       *                                                                 1a          3c          -              -
22.13.2.3 Determine sensitivity                           *                                                                 1a          3c          -              -
22.13.2.4 Determine uniformity                            *                                                                 1a          3c          -              -
22.13.2.5 Determine system resolution                                                                                        a          3c          -              -
22.13.2.6 Detector
22.13.2.6.1 Calibrate energy                                                                                                 a          3c          -              -
22.13.2.6.2 Calibrate linearity                                                                                              a          3c          -              -
22.13.2.6.3 Calibrate isotope peak (multiple window)      *                                                                  a          3c          -              -
22.13.2.7 SPECT
22.13.2.7.1 Assess center of rotation                     *                                                                  a          3c          -              -
22.13.2.7.2 Determine resolution                                                                                             a          3c          -              -


                                                                               42
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References            2. Core    3. Certification for OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                        /Wartime
                                                        Tasks                                                              Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                    B            C
                                                                                                                                   A
                                                                    A           B             C        D          E                               5-Skill     7- Skill
STS 4R0X1A                                                                                                                    3- Skill Level
                                                                                                                                                  Level        Level
                                                                                                                Task
                                                                   Trng      Trng        Trainee    Trainer
                                                                                                               Certifier   Phase I    Phase II     CDC             OJT
                                                                   Start   Complete      Initials   Initials
                                                                                                               Initials
22.13.3 Dose calibrator

22.13.3.1 Assess constancy
                                                           *                                                                  b          3c          -              -
22.13.3.2 Assess accuracy
                                                           *                                                                  b          3c          -              -
22.13.3.3 Assess geometry
                                                           *                                                                  b          3c          -              -
22.13.3.4 Assess linearity
                                                           *                                                                  b          3c          -              -
22.14 Nuclear medicine computer
       applications
       TR: Computers in Nuclear Medicine…
22.14.1 Image acquisition
                                                                                                                              -          -           -              -
22.14.1.1 Acquire static images
                                                           *                                                                 1b          3c          -              -
22.14.1.2 Acquire dynamic images
                                                           *                                                                 1b          3c          -              -
22.14.1.3 Acquire gated images
                                                           *                                                                  a          3c          -              -
22.14.1.4 Acquire SPECT images
                                                           *                                                                 1b          3c          -              -
22.14.1.5 Acquire SPECT gated images
                                                                                                                              a          3c          -              -
22.14.2 Image processing

22.14.2.1 Format image
                                                           *                                                                  a          3c          -              -
22.14.2.2 Obtain filter parameters
                                                           *                                                                  a          3c          -              -
22.14.2.3 Measure region of interest
                                                           *                                                                  a          3c          -              -
22.14.2.4 Reconstruct SPECT image
                                                           *                                                                  a          3c          -              -
22.14.2.5 Correct attenuation                              *                                                                  a          3c          -              -
22.15 Nuclear Medicine Patient care
      TR: Patient Care in Radiography
         (Current Ed)
22.15.1 Patient privacy                                                                                                      A           B           -              -
22.15.2 Patient safety                                                                                                       A           B           -              -
22.15.3 Monitor vital signs
                                                           *                                                                 2b          3b          -              -
22.15.4 Demonstrate lifting techniques                     *                                                                 2b          2b          -              -
22.15.5 Perform venipuncture                               *                                                                  a          2b          -              -
22.15.6 Employ IV precautions                              *                                                                  a          3b          -              -
22.15.7 Monitor patients                                                                                                      b          c           -              -
22.16 Transport patients                                   *                                                                  c          2b          -              -
22.17 Demonstrate aseptic techniques                                                                                          a          2b          -              -
22.18 Demonstrate cardiopulmonary resuscitation
      TR: Healthcare Provider’s Manual for Basic                                                                              -          -           -              -
      Life Support
22.19 Operate patient emergency equipment (crash
                                                                                                                              b          2b          -              -
      cart)
22.20 Medication administration
22.20.1 Administer oral medications: Captopril (e.g.,
                                                                                                                              a          1b          -              -
        Capoten)
22.20.2 Administer intramuscular medications: B-12                                                                            a          -           -              -



                                                                                43
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References     2. Core                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                /Wartime               3. Certification for OJT
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                          B             C
                                                                                                                         A
                                                            A         B           C          D          E                               5-Skill      7- Skill
STS 4R0X1A                                                                                                          3- Skill Level
                                                                                                                                        Level         Level
                                                                                                      Task
                                                           Trng      Trng      Trainee    Trainer
                                                                                                     Certifier   Phase I    Phase II     CDC          OJT
                                                           Start   Complete    Initials   Initials
                                                                                                     Initials
22.20.3 Intravenous medications

22.20.3.1 Administer adenosine
                                                                                                                   b           3c          -            -
22.20.3.2 Administer furosemide (e.g., Lasix)
                                                                                                                   b           3c          -            -
22.20.3.3 Administer cholecystokinin (e.g.,
                                                                                                                   b           3c          -            -
         CCK)
22.20.3.4 Administer enalapril maleate (e.g.,
                                                                                                                   a            -          -            -
          Vasotec)
22.20.3.5 Administer regadenoson (e.g.
                                                                                                                   b           3c          -            -
          Lexiscan)
22.20.4 Document medication administration
                                                  *                                                                b           3c          -            -




                                                                          44
                                                               Attachment 4
                                                            Ultrasound, B Shred
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References     2. Core                                                             4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                /Wartime               3. Certification for OJT
                                                  Tasks                                                                  Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                          B            C
                                                                                                                          A
                                                            A         B            C              D       E                             5-Skill     7- Skill
STS 4R0X1B                                                                                                           3- Skill Level
                                                                                                                                        Level        Level
                                                                                                        Task
                                                           Trng      Trng       Trainee     Trainer                           Phase
                                                                                                       Certifier   Phase I               CDC          OJT
                                                           Start   Complete     Initials    Initials                            II
                                                                                                       Initials
23. DIAGNOSTIC MEDICAL
   SONOGRAPHY (B-shred)
   TR: Understanding Ultrasound Physics
    (Current Ed); Ultrasonography: An
    Introduction to Normal Structure and
    Functional Anatomy (Current Ed); Textbook
    of Diagnostic Sonography, Vol 1 & 2
    (Current Ed)
23.1 Principles of diagnostic ultrasound
     TR: Understanding Ultrasound Physics
23.1.1 Practical physics
                                                                                                                     B           -         -           -
23.1.2 Instrumentation
                                                                                                                     B           -         -           -
23.1.3 Artifacts
                                                                                                                     B           -         -           -
23.1.4 Safety
                                                                                                                     B          B          -           -
23.1.5 Doppler physics
                                                                                                                     B           -         -           -
23.1.6 Vascular physics
                                                                                                                     A           -         B           -
23.1.7 3D/4D Physics
                                                                                                                     A           -         A           -
23.2 Basic operating procedures
23.2.1 Adjust sonographic
       instrumentation                            *                                                                  2b         3c         -           -
23.2.2 Adjust image display
                                                  *                                                                  2b         3c         -           -
23.2.3 Record ultrasound image
                                                  *                                                                  2b         3c         -           -
23.2.4 Prep patient
                                                  *                                                                  2b         3c         -           -
23.2.5 Apply ergonomics                                                                                              2b         3c         -           -
23.2.6 3D/4D Imaging                                                                                                 1a          -         -           -
23.3 Sonographic anatomy and physiology
      TR: Ultrasonography: An Introduction to
     Normal Structure and Functional Anatomy
23.3.1 Thorax                                                                                                         -          -         A            -
23.3.2 Abdomen                                                                                                       B           -         B            -
23.3.3 Pelvis                                                                                                        B           -         B            -
23.3.4 Extremities                                                                                                    -          -         -            -
23.3.5 Testicular                                                                                                    B           -         B            -
23.3.6 Breast                                                                                                        B           -         B            -
23.3.7 Thyroid                                                                                                       B           -         B            -
23.3.8 Neonatal brain                                                                                                 -          -         A            -
23.3.9 Vascular                                                                                                      B           -         B            -
23.3.10 Obstetrics                                                                                                   B           -         B            -
23.4 Sonography imaging
      TR: Textbook of Diagnostic Sonography,
     Vol 1 & 2
23.4.1 Obtain aorta images                         *                                                                 2b         3b         b           -


                                                                      45
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References    2. Core    3. Certification for OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                /Wartime
                                                Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided

                                                                                                                                                 B             C
                                                                                                                                A
                                                             A           B               C          D          E                               5-Skill      7- Skill
STS 4R0X1B                                                                                                                 3- Skill Level
                                                                                                                                               Level         Level
                                                                                                             Task
                                                           Trng        Trng           Trainee    Trainer                Phase
                                                                                                            Certifier             Phase II      CDC             OJT
                                                           Start     Complete         Initials   Initials                 I
                                                                                                            Initials
23.4.2 Obtain liver images                         *                                                                      2b         3b           b              -
23.4.3 Obtain gallbladder and biliary images       *                                                                      2b         3b           b              -
23.4.4 Obtain pancreas images                      *                                                                      2b         3b           b              -
23.4.5 Obtain urinary system images                *                                                                      2b         3b           b              -
23.4.6 Obtain spleen images                        *                                                                      2b         3b           b              -
23.4.7 Obtain abdominal Doppler data
                                                                                                                           -          -           a              -
23.4.8 Obtain gastrointestinal (GI) tract
                                                                                                                           -          -           a              -
        images
23.4.9 Pelvis
23.4.9.1 Obtain transabdominal images
                                                   *                                                                      2b         3b           b              -
23.4.9.2 Obtain endovaginal images
                                                   *                                                                      2b         3b           b              -
23.4.10 Obstetrical
23.4.10.1 Obtain first trimester images
                                                   *                                                                      2b         3b           b              -
23.4.10.2 Obtain second and third trimester
                                                                                                                          1b         2b           b              -
          images
23.4.11 Peripheral vascular

23.4.11.1 Obtain upper extremity vascular
                                                                                                                          1a         1b           b              -
          images
23.4.11.2 Obtain lower extremity vascular
          images                                   *                                                                      2b         3b           c              -
23.4.12 Obtain carotid artery images
                                                                                                                          2b         3b           b              -
23.4.13 Obtain thyroid images
                                                   *                                                                      2b         3b           b              -
23.4.14 Obtain testicular images
                                                   *                                                                      2b         3b           b              -
23.4.15 Obtain breast images                                                                                              1b         2b           b              -
23.4.16 Transplant
23.4.16.1 Obtain Renal transplant images                                                                                   -          -           a              -
23.4.16.2 Obtain liver transplant images                                                                                   -          -           a              -
23.4.17 Provide invasive procedure assistance                                                                              -          -           a              -
23.4.18 Operate portable sonography unit                                                                                   -          -           -              -
23.4.19 Obtain neonatal head images                                                                                        -          -           a              -
23.5 Conduct equipment quality control                                                                                     a          -           -              -
23.6 Employ transducer cleaning techniques                                                                                 b         3c           -              -
23.7 Interact with Patient                                                                                                1a         2b           -              -
23.8 Ethics
TR: 1999-2012 Society of Diagnostic                                                                                       B           -           -              -
     Medical Sonography
23.9 Pathology
TR: Textbook of Diagnostic Ultrasonography,
Vol 1 & 2




                                                                             46
                                                             Attachment 5
                                                  Magnetic Resonance Imaging, C Shred
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References    2. Core    3. Certification for OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                /Wartime
                                                Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                   B           C
                                                                                                                                  A
                                                             A           B               C          D          E                                5-Skill     7- Skill
STS 4R0X1C                                                                                                                  3- Skill Level
                                                                                                                                                 Level        Level
                                                                                                             Task
                                                           Trng        Trng           Trainee    Trainer
                                                                                                            Certifier   Phase I     Phase II     CDC          OJT
                                                           Start     Complete         Initials   Initials
                                                                                                            Initials
24 MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING
  (C-shred)
                                                                                                                         MRI
  TR: Sectional Anatomy For Imaging
                                                                                                                        Course
  Professionals (Current Ed); MRI in Practice
  (Current Ed)
24.1 Safety in the magnetic resonance (MR)
environment

24.1.1 Contraindications for scanning                                                                                      B           -           -           -
24.1.2 Projectile Dangers
                                                                                                                           B           -           -           -

24.1.3 Perform magnet quench                                                                                               b           -           -           -
24.1.4 Perform Emergency evacuation
       procedures                                  *                                                                      2b           -           -           -

24.1.5 RF Irradiation                                                                                                      B           -           -           -
24.1.6 MRI Zones                                                                                                           B           -           -           -
24.2 Physics of magnetic resonance
      (Ref: MRI in Practice)
24.2.1 Flip angles                                                                                                         B           -           -           -
24.2.2 Time of inversion                                                                                                   B           -           -           -
24.2.3 Matrices                                                                                                            B           -           -           -
24.2.4 Signal averages                                                                                                     B           -           -           -
24.2.5 Bandwidth                                                                                                           B           -           -           -
24.2.6 Magnetism                                                                                                           B           -           -           -
24.2.7 Free Induction Decay                                                                                                B           -           -           -
24.2.8 Resonance                                                                                                           B           -           -           -
24.3 Image Weighting and Contrast
     Ref: MRI in Practice
24.3.1 Resolution                                                                                                          B           -           -           -
24.3.2 T1 weighting                                                                                                        B           -           -           -
24.3.3 T2 weighting                                                                                                        B           -           -           -
24.3.4 Proton density weighting                                                                                            B           -           -           -
24.3.5 Saturation
24.3.6 Spatial                                                                                                             B           -           -           -
24.3.7 Spectral                                                                                                            B           -           -           -
24.4 MR pulse sequences

24.4.1 Spin echo                                                                                                           B           -           -           -
24.4.2 Gradient echo                                                                                                       B           -           -           -
24.4.3 Fast Spin Echo                                                                                                      B           -           -           -
24.4.4 Echo Planer Imaging                                                                                                 B           -           -           -
24.4.5 Inversion Recovery                                                                                                  B           -           -           -
24.4.6 Diffusion Imaging                                                                                                   B           -           -           -
24.4.7 Perfusion Imaging
                                                                                                                           B           -           -           -
24.4.8 Spectroscopy                                                                                                        A           -           -           -
24.4.9 Cine
                                                                                                                           A           -           -           -


                                                                             47
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References   2. Core    3. Certification for OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                               /Wartime
                                               Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                 B            C
                                                                                                                               A
                                                           A            B               C          D          E                                5-Skill     7- Skill
STS 4R0X1C                                                                                                                3- Skill Level
                                                                                                                                               Level        Level
                                                                                                            Task
                                                          Trng        Trng           Trainee    Trainer
                                                                                                           Certifier   Phase I    Phase II      CDC            OJT
                                                          Start     Complete         Initials   Initials
                                                                                                           Initials
24.5 Adjusts Imaging Parameters

24.5.1 Phase/Frequency direction
                                                  *                                                                      2b           -           -             -
24.5.2 Echo Train Length
                                                  *                                                                      2b           -           -             -
24.5.3 Time of Repetition                         *                                                                      2b           -           -             -
24.5.4 Time of Echo
                                                  *                                                                      2b           -           -             -
24.5.5 Field of View
                                                  *                                                                      2b           -           -             -
24.5.6 Phase Field of View
                                                  *                                                                      2b           -           -             -
24.5.7 Slice Thickness
                                                  *                                                                      2b           -           -             -
24.5.8 Slice Spacing
                                                  *                                                                      2b           -           -             -
24.5.9 Number of Signal Averages
                                                  *                                                                      2b           -           -             -
24.5.10 Flow Compensation
                                                  *                                                                      2b           -           -             -
24.5.11 Respiratory Compensation                  *                                                                      2b           -           -             -
24.5.12 Parallel Imaging                          *                                                                      2b           -           -             -
24.5.13 Cardiac gatting                           *                                                                      2b           -           -             -
24.5.14 Respitory gatting                         *                                                                      2b           -           -             -
24.6 MR angiography
      Ref: MRI in Practice
24.6.1 PerformTime of flight                      *                                                                      2b           -           -             -
24.6.2 Phase contrast                                                                                                     B           -           -             -
24.7 MR system components
      Ref: MRI in Practice
24.7.1 Magnet                                                                                                             B           -           -             -
24.7.2 Operator's console                                                                                                 B           -           -             -
24.7.3 Power distribution system
                                                                                                                          B           -           -             -
24.7.4 Radio frequency (RF) system
                                                                                                                          B           -           -             -
24.7.5 Quench box                                                                                                         B           -           -             -
24.7.6 Table controls                                                                                                     B           -           -             -
24.7.7 Patient alignment system                                                                                           B           -           -             -
24.7.8 Cryogen monitors                                                                                                   B           -           -             -
24.7.9 Coils                                                                                                              B           -           -             -
24.8 Sectional anatomy
      Ref: Sectional Anatomy for Imaging
      Professionals
24.8.1 Brain                                                                                                              B           -           -             -
24.8.2 Neck                                                                                                               B           -           -             -
24.8.3 Spine                                                                                                              B           -           -             -
24.8.4 Thorax                                                                                                             B           -           -             -
24.8.5 Heart                                                                                                              B           -           -             -
24.8.6 Abdomen                                                                                                            B           -           -             -



                                                                            48
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References   2. Core    3. Certification for OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                               /Wartime
                                               Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided

                                                                                                                                                 B            C
                                                                                                                               A
                                                            A           B               C          D          E                                5-Skill     7- Skill
STS 4R0X1C                                                                                                                3- Skill Level
                                                                                                                                               Level        Level
                                                                                                            Task
                                                          Trng        Trng           Trainee    Trainer
                                                                                                           Certifier   Phase I    Phase II      CDC            OJT
                                                          Start     Complete         Initials   Initials
                                                                                                           Initials
24.8.7 Pelvis
                                                                                                                          B           -           -             -
24.8.8 Extremities
                                                                                                                          B           -           -             -
24.9 MR contrast agents & administration
      Ref: MRI in Practice
24.9.1 Types of agents
                                                                                                                          B           -           -             -
24.9.2 Reactions to agents
                                                                                                                          B           -           -             -
24.9.3 Contraindications to contrast
                                                                                                                          B           -           -             -
24.9.4 Operate Pressure Injector
                                                                                                                         2b           -           -             -
24.9.5 Document contrast administration
                                                  *                                                                      2b           -           -             -
24.10 Operate MRI system

24.10.1 Start-up
                                                  *                                                                      2b           -           -             -
24.10.2 Shutdown                                  *                                                                      2b           -           -             -
24.10.3 Emergency shutdown                        *                                                                      2b           -           -             -
24.10.4 Tuning the magnet                                                                                                 -           -           -             -
24.11 Prepare of examination

24.11.1 Patient Prep
                                                  *                                                                      2b           -           -             -
24.11.2 Room Prep
                                                  *                                                                      2b           -           -             -
24.12 Perform examinations

24.12.1 Head                                                                                                              -           -           -             -
24.12.1.1 Brain                                   *                                                                      2b           -           -             -
24.12.1.2 Internal auditory canals                                                                                        -           -           -             -
24.12.1.3 Pituitary gland                                                                                                 -           -           -             -
24.12.1.4 Orbits                                                                                                          -           -           -             -
24.12.1.5 Cranial nerves                                                                                                  -           -           -             -
24.12.2 C-spine                                   *                                                                      2b           -           -             -
24.12.3 T-spine                                   *                                                                      2b           -           -             -
24.12.4. L-spine                                  *                                                                      2b           -           -             -
24.12.5 Anterior neck                                                                                                     -
24.12.6 Shoulder
                                                  *                                                                      2b           -           -             -
24.12.7 Elbow
                                                                                                                          -           -           -             -
24.12.8 Wrist
                                                                                                                          -           -           -             -
24.12.9 Hand/Finger
                                                                                                                          -           -           -             -
24.12.10 Knee
                                                  *                                                                      2b           -           -             -
24.12.11 Pelvis/Hips
                                                                                                                          -           -           -             -
24.12.12 Ankle                                                                                                            -           -           -             -
24.12.13 Foot/Toe                                                                                                         -           -           -             -



                                                                            49
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References   2. Core    3. Certification for OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                               /Wartime
                                               Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                  B           C
                                                                                                                                 A
                                                            A           B               C          D          E                                5-Skill     7- Skill
STS 4R0X1C                                                                                                                 3- Skill Level
                                                                                                                                                Level        Level
                                                                                                            Task
                                                          Trng        Trng           Trainee    Trainer
                                                                                                           Certifier   Phase I     Phase II     CDC          OJT
                                                          Start     Complete         Initials   Initials
                                                                                                           Initials
24.12.14 Long bones (e.g., tib/fib, femur,
          forearm)                                *                                                                      1a           -           -           -
24.12.15 Temperomandibular joint                                                                                          -           -           -           -
24.12.16 Heart                                                                                                            -           -           -           -
24.12.17 Great vessels                                                                                                    -           -           -           -
24.12.18 Abdomen                                                                                                          -           -           -           -
24.12.19 MR mammography                                                                                                   -           -           -           -
24.12.20 Perform Quality Control                                                                                         1a           -           -           -
24.13 MR Artifacts
                                                                                                                          -           -           -           -
       Ref: MRI in Practice
24.13.1 Flow                                                                                                              B           -           -           -
24.13.2 Phase Mismapping                                                                                                  B           -           -           -
24.13.3 Aliasing/Wrap Around                                                                                              B           -           -           -
24.13.4 Chemical Shift                                                                                                    B           -           -           -
24.13.5 Chemical Misregistration                                                                                          B           -           -           -
24.13.6 Truncation                                                                                                        B           -           -           -
24.13.7 Magnetic Susceptibility                                                                                           B           -           -           -
24.13.8 Cross-Talk                                                                                                        B           -           -           -
24.13.9 Zipper                                                                                                            B           -           -           -
24.13.10 Shading                                                                                                          B           -           -           -
24.13.11 Moire                                                                                                            B           -           -           -
24.13.12 Magic Angle                                                                                                      B           -           -           -




                                                                            50
                                                   Attachment 6
                                        Bibliography and Cross Talk Listings
                                             4R0X1 Training References

                                    Commercial and Other Service Publications

Diagnostic Imaging Phase I:

Bushong, S. C. (2008). Radiologic Science for Technologists: Physics, Biology, and Protection (9th ed. or later ed). St.
      Louis, Missouri: Mosby Elsevier.

Carlton, R. R., & Adler, A. M. (2006). Principles of Radiographic Imaging: An Art and a Science (4th ed. or later ed).
        Clifton Park, New York: Thomson Delmar Learning.

Ehrlich, R. A., & Daly, J. A. (2009). Patient Care in Radiography: With an Introduction to Medical Imaging (7th ed. or
        later ed). St. Louis, Missouri: Mosby Elsevier.

Ettinger, A. G., & Burch, P. F. (2007). Medical Terminology: For Health Careers (2nd ed. or later ed). St. Paul,
        Minnesota: Paradigm Publishing.

Lampignano, J. P., & Bontrager, K. L. (2014). Textbook of Radiographic Positioning and Related Anatomy (8th ed. or
      later ed). St. Louis, Missouri: Mosby Elsevier.

Mace, J. D., & Kowalczyk, N. (2008). Radiographic Pathology for Technologists (5th ed. or later ed). St. Louis, Missouri:
        Mosby Elsevier.

Papp. (2011). Quality Management (4th ed. or later ed). St. Louis, Missouri: Mosby Elsevier.

Selman, J. (2000). The fundamentals of imaging physics and radiobiology (9th ed. or later ed). Springfield, Illinois:
       Charles C. Thomas.

Smith, B. J., Long, B. W., & Frank, E. D. (2007). Merrill's Atlas of Radiographic Positioning & Procedures (11th ed. or
        later ed, Vols. I, II, III). St. Louis, Missouri: Mosby Elsevier.

Tortora, G. J., & Derrickson, B. (2009). Principles of Anatomy and Physiology (12th ed. or later ed). Hoboken, New
        Jersey: John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

Wilson, B. G. (1997). Ethics and Basic Law for Medical Imaging Professionals. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania: F.A. Davis.

Diagnostic Imaging Phase II:

Bushong, S. C. (2008). Radiologic Science for Technologists: Physics, Biology, and Protection (9th ed. or later ed.). St.
      Louis, Missouri: Mosby Elsevier.

Dewit, S. C. (2001). Fundamental Concepts and Skills for Nursing. St. Louis Missouri: W. B. Saunders Co.

Ehrlich, R. A., & Daly, J. A. (2009). Patient Care in Radiography: With an Introduction to Medical Imaging (7th ed. or
        later ed.). St. Louis, Missouri: Mosby Elsevier.

Smith, B. J., Long, B. W., & Frank, E. D. (2007). Merrill's Atlas of Radiographic Positioning & Procedures (11th ed. or
        later ed., Vols. I, II, III). St. Louis, Missouri: Mosby Elsevier.

                                                            51
Tortora, G. J., & Derrickson, B. (2005). Principles of Anatomy and Physiology (11th ed. or later ed.). Hoboken, New
        Jersey: John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

Nuclear Medicine:

Bureau of Radiological Health and the Training Institute Environmental Control Administration. (1970). Radiological
       Health Handbook. Rockville, Maryland: US Department of Health, Education and Welfare.

Bushong, S. C. (2001). Radiologic Science for Technologists; Physics, Biology, and Protection (7th ed. or later ed). St.
      Louis, Missouri: Mosby Elsevier.

English, R. J. (1986). SPECT Single-Photon Emission Computed Tomography: A Primer (3rd ed. or later ed). Reston,
        Virginia: The Society of Nuclear Medicine.

Kowalczyk, N., & Donnett, K. (1996). Integrated Patient Care for the Imaging Professional. St. Louis, Missouri: Mosby.

Kowalsky, R. J., & Falen, S. W. (2004). Radiopharmaceuticals in Nuclear Pharmacy and Nuclear Medicine (2nd ed. or
      later ed). Washington, District of Columbia: APhA.

Lee, K. (1991). Computers in Nuclear Medicine: A Practical Approach. New York, New York: The Society of Nuclear
        Medicine.

Mascetta, J. A. (1996). Chemistry: The Easy Way (3rd ed. or later ed). Hauppauge, New York: Barron's Educational
       Series, Inc.

Mettler, F. A., & Guiberteau, M. J. (2012). Essentials of Nuclear Medicine Imaging (6th ed. or later ed). Philadelphia,
        Pennsylvania: Elsevier Saunders.

Miller, T. R., Knox, H. D., & Baum, E. M. (Eds.). (2002). Nuclides and Isotopes: Chart of the Nuclides (16th ed. or later
        ed). KAPL, Inc. & Lockheed Martin.

Naval Education Training Command. (1985). Mathematics, Volume 1: NAVEDTRA 10069-D1 (Vol. I). Washington DC:
       US Government Printing Office.

Powsner, E. R., & Powsner, R. A. (2006). Essential Nuclear Medicine Physics (2nd ed. or later ed). Malden,
      Massachusetts: Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

Saha, G. B. (2004). Fundamentals of Nuclear Pharmacy (5th ed. or later ed). New York, New York: Springer Science +
       Business Media, Inc.

Scott-Ennis, R. J., Hill, J. W., & Baum, S. J. (2000). Chemistry and Life: An Introduction to General, Organic, and
        Biological Chemistry (6th ed. or later ed). Upper Saddle River, New Jersey: Prentice Hall.

Sodee, B. D., & Early, P. J. (1995). Principles and Practice of Nuclear Medicine (2nd ed. or later ed). St. Louis ,
       Missouri: Mosby.

Sorenson, J. A., Phelps, M. E., & Cherry, S. R. (2003). Physics in Nuclear Medicine (3rd ed. or later ed). Philadelphia,
       Pennsylvania: Saunders.

Tortora, G. J., & Derrickson, B. H. (2005). Principles of Anatomy and Physiology (11th ed. or later ed). Hoboken, New
        Jersey: John Wiley & Sons, Inc.


                                                             52
Trefzger, J. E., Gary, J. S., & Ewen, D. (2005). Technical Mathematics (2nd ed. or later ed). Upper Saddle River, New
       Jersey: Pearson Prentice Hall.

Visconti, P. J., Statkiewicz Sherer, M. A., & Ritenour, E. R. (2002). Radiation Protection in Medical Radiography (4th
        ed. or later ed). St. Louis, Missouri: Mosby Elsevier.

Waterstram-Rich, K. M., & Christian, P. E. (Eds.). (2007). Nuclear Medicine and PET/CT: Technology and Techniques
       (6th ed. or later ed). St. Louis , Missouri: Mosby Elsevier.

Watson, S., Warner, G., Snyder, W., & Ford, M. (1975). MIRD Pamphlet No.11 (11 ed. or later ed). New York, New
       York: Society of Nuclear Medicine.

Sonography:

Curry, Reva A and Tempkin, Betty Bates., et al. Sonography: An Introduction to Normal Structure and Function .
        (Current edition). St. Louis, Missouri: W. B. Saunders.
Diagnostic Medical Sonography Study Guide - , December 2012
Edelman, Sidney K., PhD. (2012). Understanding Ultrasound Physics., (4th ed. or later ed). KnowledgeMasters, Inc.
Sandra L. Hagen-Ansert. (2012). Textbook of Diagnostic Sonography. (Current edition). St. Louis, Missouri: Mosby
       Elsevier .
Magnetic Resonance Imaging:

Petersen, C. M., & Kelley, L. L. (2006). Sectional Anatomy for Imaging Professionals (2nd ed. or later ed.). Mosby
        Elsevier.

Westbrook, C., Talbot, J., & Roth, C. K. (2011). MRI in Practice (4th ed. or later ed.). Malden, Massachusetts: Wiley-
       Blackwell.




                                                           53
Section B - Course Objective List (COL)

1. Course Objectives for Initial Skills Course. To obtain a copy of a COL, contact:

Training Development Element
383 TRS/TRR
3480 Garden Avenue
Ft Sam Houston, TX 78234

Phone: DSN 420-5157 or Commercial: (210) 808-5157

1.1. Each proficiency coded task or knowledge item taught at the technical school is measured using an objective. An
objective is a written instruction for the students, so they know what is expected of them to successfully complete training
on each task or knowledge item. Each objective is composed of a condition, behavior, and a standard. The condition is
the setting in which the training takes place (type of equipment or references when required). The behavior is the
observable portion of the objective (perform hand washing). The standard is the level of performance that is measured to
ensure the proficiency code level is maintained (e.g., to a 70% or with no instructor assists). All objectives use a progress
check (PC), written test (W) or a (-) combination of both to measure a student’s ability (skill) or knowledge.

1.2. Standard. The minimum standard for written examinations is 70% (which can be waived). Standards for
performance measurement are indicated in the objective and delineated on the individual progress checklist. Instructor
assistance is provided as needed during the progress check and students may be required to repeat all or part of the
behavior until satisfactory performance is attained.

1.3. Proficiency Level. Behavior statements are taught at the analysis, evaluation, and application levels. Prerequisites
for course attendance support or augment training provided in the Diagnostic Imaging course.

Section C - Support Materials

1. Training Platforms (TPs). There may be certain opportunities to be assigned to duties in a specific area that requires
other than the normal Diagnostic Imaging formal training and the following training platforms will assist in 4R0X1
progression.

Section D - Training Course Index

1. Purpose. This section identifies training courses available for the specialty.

1.1. A i r Force In-Residence Courses.

  COURSE NUMBER              TITLE                         DURATION           LOCATION
  L8AQJ4R031 01AA            Diagnostic Imaging Phase I    97 Days            METC – Ft Sam Houston, TX
                             Course
  L5ABO4R031 02AA            Diagnostic Imaging Phase II   165 days           Various Locations
                             Course
  L9ALJ4R031A 01AA           Nuclear Medicine Phase I      97 Days            METC – Ft Sam Houston, TX
                             Course
  L5ABO4R031A 02AA           Nuclear Medicine Phase II     161 Days           Various Locations
                             Course


  J3AQR4R031B 01AA           Diagnostic Ultrasound         43 Days            METC – Ft Sam Houston, TX
                             Phase I Course

  L5ALO4R031B 02AA           Diagnostic Ultrasound         80 Days            Various Locations
                             Phase II Course
                                                             54
  COURSE NUMBER            TITLE                         DURATION          LOCATION
  L5AZO4R051 00AA          Diagnostic Imaging            10 days           JBSA-Lackland AFB, TX
                           Mammography
  L5ALO4R031C 00AA         Magnetic Resonance            80 Days           JBSA-Lackland AFB, TX
                           Imaging



  1.2. Air Force Career Development Academy (AFCDA) Courses.

  COURSE NUMBER                                             TITLE
  CDC 4R051                                                 Diagnostic Imaging Journeyman
  00001                                                     Airman Leadership School Associate Program
                                                            (Reserve and Guard only)
  00009                                                     Air Force Noncommissioned Officer Academy
                                                            (Reserve and Guard only)
  00014                                                     Air Force Senior Noncommissioned Officers
                                                            Academy Correspondence Course

  1.3. Other. MAJCOM, Forward Operating Agency, and/or training courses specifically for AETC instructors and
  CDC writers.

Section E – MAJCOM-Unique Requirements

There are currently no MAJCOM unique requirements. This area is reserved.

Section F- Documentation of Training

1. Work Center Training Plans. The purpose of this section is to provide guidelines and examples of proper
documentation for the many electronic forms used in training of all enlisted medical personnel. Training
documentation helps to assess readiness capability as well as individual strengths and weaknesses. It also aids
compliance with all The Joint Commission, Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care, and Health Services
Inspections regulatory requirements. The enlisted training documentation has migrated from the hard copy to
electronic AFTR. AFTR is accessible from the Advance Distance Learning Service via the AF Portal. Refer to your
unit training manager (UTM) for the most current policies and guidance on training documentation.

2. Air Force Training Record. The AFTR is an enterprise-wide custom training management system designed to
replace the paper-based training records system. It is the electronic equivalent of an AF Form 623 and will be used by
career fields within the AFMS to document all training actions. The AFTR allows training plans to be established by;
Career Field/AFSC, duty position/team member, trainee/trainer/certifier, and any group of tasks that require management,
tracking, and documentation. The AFTR components managed by the supervisor are:

2.1. Master Task List (MTL). The MTL is a list containing all the tasks that are to be trained in a work center and is
often broken out by specialty. The MTL consists of the Specialty Training Standard; AF Form 623 Parts II and III; AF
Form 797 and AF Form 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training; and Qualification Training
Packages (QTPs). The supervisor creates the MTL by selecting tasks from the Unit Task List (UTL) produced by the
UTM and the STS.

2.2. Master Training Plan (MTP). The MTP is a list containing a schedule of training for all tasks within a
particular duty position. The MTP consists of the STS; 623 Parts II and III; AF Force Forms 797 and 1098 tasks; and
QTPs. The supervisor creates the MTP by assigning training times and methods to tasks in the duty position. Refer
to AFI 36-2201 and AFH 36-2235, Volume 11, Information for Designers of Instructional Systems Application to Unit
Training, for guidance in developing the MTP.
                                                          55
2.3. Duty Task List (DTL). The DTL is a list containing all the tasks to be trained on in a duty position. The DTL
consists of the STS; AF Form 623 Parts II and III; AF Force Forms 797 and 1098 tasks; and QTPs. The supervisor
creates the DTL by selecting tasks from the MTL.

2.4. Individual Training Record (ITR). All training is documented in the ITR. This is the electronic version of the
former Enlisted Training and Competency Folder. The ITR is made up of the AF Form 623 Parts I, II and III; AF
Forms 623a, 797, 803 and 1098; QTPs and the JQS. This record is automatically populated based upon the duty
position the individual is assigned to. Refer to AFI 36-2201 for guidance in documenting training on the various forms
contained within the ITR. Maintenance of the CFETP is mandatory for all assigned MSgts and below.

2.4.1. The AFTR provides the capability to incorporate training source documents and/or to manually enter
completed training into the ITR. The following documents will be incorporated into the ITR:

2.4.1.1. The member’s initial MTF and clinic orientation checklists.

2.4.1.2. Recurrent training such as Basic Life Support and Health Insurance Portability and Accountability.

2.4.1.3. AF Form 2096.

2.4.1.4. Medical Education & Training Campus (METC) Student Training Report (STR). METC STR
documents the level of success, strengths, and weaknesses that a student demonstrated during technical school.
It is emailed to the base training manager shortly after the graduate arrives at his/her duty station. This form is
maintained in the record until 5-skill level upgrade training is complete.

2.4.1.5. AF Form 803, Report of Task Evaluation. AF Form 803 is used to conduct and document completion of task
evaluations during training staff assisted visits, when directed by the commander, or when a task certification requires
validation.

2.4.1.6. Other forms as appropriate.

3. Documentation of Training. The purpose of this section is to provide guidelines and examples of proper
documentation on the many forms used in training Diagnostic Imaging personnel. Training documentation helps to
assess mission capability and readiness, individual strengths and weaknesses, resources needed to support
quality patient care, and defines requirements for individual career progression.

3.1. AF Form 797. The AF Form 797 (Figure 3.1) will be used to record training for tasks that are not
otherwise documented in the CFETP.

                          JOB QUALIFICATION STANDARD CONTINUATION/COMMAND JQS
                                                                      CERTIFICATION
                TASK, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL REFERENCES
 TASK NUMBER




                                                                                MAJCOM
                                                                                                                  COMPLETION
                                                                      START DATE




                                                                               DIRECTED
                                                                                   CERTIFYING
                                                                                   OFFICIIAL’S


                                                                                                 TRAINEES




                                                                               USE ONLY
                                                                                   INITIALS


                                                                                                 INITIALS




                                                                                                                  DATE




    1          Prepare job qualification standards
    2          Perform film loan procedures
    3          Operate Pressure Injector

 TRAINEE NAME     DOG, DEPUTY A.
AF FORM 797, AUG 02 (Electronic File) PREVIOUS EDITION IS OBSOLETE

                                       Figure 3.1. Sample, AF Form 797 Documentation
                                                               56
3.2. AF Form 1098 (Figure 3.2.). Mandatory training requirements may vary from facility to facility.
At a minimum, these requirements should be reviewed on an annual basis and updated as required.


                         SPECIAL TASK CERTIFICATION AND RECURRING TRAINING
                                                                EVALUATION OF TRAINING
     TASK OR                       SIGNATURE      INITIAL  SCORE   TYPE    FREQUENCY   DUE
   RECURRING            DATE           OF           OF       OR                        DATE
    TRAINING          COMPLETED    CERTIFYING    TRAINEE   HOURS     F         G
                                                                                        H
       AND                          OFFICIAL
   TECHNICAL             B.                          D        E
   REFERENCES                           C
        A

  COTR Training         15 Jul 13                                        91                    1 Time
   CPR Training         15 Sep 13                                        P                     Annual      091514
     CMRT               28 Sep 13                                        P                     Annual      092814

  NAME OF TRAINEE (Last, First, Middle Initial)         GRADE                       UNIT AND OFFICE SYMBOL
                                                                                    MDSS/SGSL
  DOO, SCOOBY D.                                    A1C
 AF FORM 1098, APR 85 (Electronic File) PREVIOUS EDITION IS OBSOLETE

        Figure 3.2. Sample, Recurring Mandatory Training Documentation (AF Form 1098)

3.3. Qualification Training Progress Records were developed to enhance OJT. It provides the trainer
with a breakdown of task performance skills to aid in performance evaluation. The evaluations of each task
results in either a satisfactory or unsatisfactory score (Figure 3.3).


  Rank/Name

  Qualification Upgrade Training to: 5-Skill Level                  7-Skill Level


                               PERFORMANCE ITEM                                          SAT       UNSAT
                          STS Task 22.11 Radiopharmacy procedures
 Maintain receipt logs
 Radiopharmaceutical storage and disposal
 Monitor decay in storage
 Package radiopharmaceuticals
 Maintain receipt logs




                        Figure 3.3. Sample, Qualification Training Progress Record




                                                           57
 3.4. AF Form 623A (Figures 3.4. thru 3.7.). Use the AF Form 623A available in the AFTR to document all
progress of individual training. Document on AF Form 623A the start and completion dates of unit orientation,
and reference the date of the orientation checklist. In addition, document the member’s entry into upgrade
training, initial evaluation results, and periodic evaluations of training progress to include CDC progress.
Information on extensions, waiver requests, or breaks in training should be clearly documented. Document on
the AF Form 623A any decertification proceedings, including dates, reasons for decertification, and other
applicable information. Accomplish an initial evaluation when a new person arrives to the unit or when an
individual changes duty positions.


                                 ON - THE - JOB TRAINING RECORD CONTINUATION SHEET

28 Jul 2013
A1C Scooby D. Doo is assigned to the Diagnostic Imaging Flight on this date. I have been assigned as his trainer and will
orient A1C Scooby D. Doo to the Flight and Squadron using the Diagnostic Imaging Flight and Medical Support Squadron
orientation checklists located in the Master Training Plan. An initial interview was accomplished on this date. A1C Scooby D.
Doo is looking forward to working in Nuclear Medicine. He is enthusiastic and prepared to accept all challenges. He understands
that he must question his trainers if uncertain of training provided.

Scooby D. Doo, A1C, USAF                           Deputy A. Dog, MSgt, USAF Medical
Diagnostic Imaging Journeyman                      NCOIC, Diagnostic Imaging

27 Aug 2013
A mid-orientation progress check was accomplished on this date. A1C Scooby D. Dog has progressed through the flight and
squadron orientation with little to no difficulty. He is almost finished with the Medical Group orientation. He completed reviews
of Operating Instructions for the Diagnostic Imaging Flight and the Medical Support Squadron. He has received his CDCs and
is aware that he should complete all four volumes in 6 months or less.

Scooby D. Dog, USAF                                Deputy A. Dog, MSgt, USAF Medical
Diagnostic Imaging Journeyman                      NCOIC, Diagnostic Imaging

30 Sep 2013
A1C Scooby D. Doo has completed all training on the orientation requirements for the flight, squadron, and medical group. A
review of the checklists with A1C Scooby D. Doo indicates he is knowledgeable of all items discussed. A1C Scooby D. Doo stated
that he feels comfortable with the training provided and believes he is ready to be released from orientation. A1C Scooby D. Doo
has been released from orientation on this date. He has also completed CDC Volumes 1 and 2.

Scooby D. Doo, A1C, USAF                           Deputy A. Dog, MSgt, USAF Medical
Diagnostic Imaging Journeyman                      NCOIC, Diagnostic Imaging


LAST NAME FIRST NAME MIDDLE INITIAL
Doo, Scooby D.

AF FORM 623A, MAR 79 (IMT-V1) or (EF -V2)            PREVIOUS EDITION WILL BE USED

                               Figure 3.4. Sample, Orientation Documentation




                                                                58
                                         ON - THE - JOB TRAINING RECORD
                                               CONTINUATION SHEET

                                                 INITIAL BRIEFING
                                                (Trainee Orientation)



___________________________was briefed on the On-The-Job Training (OJT) program and how he/she fits into the
 program while in upgrade training (UGT). Upgrade training was explained as a dual-channel process designed to qualify
an airman for skill level upgrade. Dual-channel OJT is a systematic reportable application of self-study and the
craftsman/apprentice principal. Trainees acquire job qualification while performing on the job under supervision. This
combination of knowledge and job position qualification constitutes the dual-channel concept.

 Requirements from AFI 36-2101 and 36-2201 were discussed. AF Forms 623, 623A, 797, 2096, and the CFETP,
 STS/JQS or automated JQS, which serve to make up the individual training record, were explained. Responsibilities of
 the commander, base training, unit education and training manager, immediate supervisor, trainer, and trainee were
 discussed. The career development course (CDC) was briefly discussed and will be explained in detail when the CDC
 arrives, if applicable.

 Requirements for upgrade in AFSC 4R0X1 are: (1) satisfactory completion of CDC 4R01X1 (CDCs should be
 completed in six months or less to enhance test passing opportunity); (2) supervisor’s or Task Certifier’s certification
 of job qualifications with adequate hands on training; and (3) supervisor’s recommendation for upgrade.

 Personnel in grades E-1 through E-6 (and SNCOs in retraining status) have AF Form 623 and CFETP or JQS. The
 CFETP or JQS may contain 100 or more separate tasks, but it should be annotated to show only those tasks the airman is
 required to perform in the current duty position; mandatory requirements in AFI 36-2101 for upgrade, and core task
 requirements. The supervisor and trainee will initial appropriate areas in the JQS to certify training is complete. In the
 CFETP, the trainer, trainee, and certifier will initial appropriate areas when training is completed. After upgrade the
 CFETP or JQS will continue to be used to document further qualification training.


 ____________________________                      ________________________                  ______
 SUPERVISOR'S SIGNATURE                            TRAINEE'S SIGNATURE                       DATE




 LAST NAME                      FIRST NAME                    MIDDLE INITIAL

 AF FORM 623A, MAR 79 (IMT-V1) or (EF -V2)                  PREVIOUS EDITION WILL BE USED

                             Figure 3.5. Sample, Initial Upgrade Training Brief




                                                             59
                                              ON - THE - JOB TRAINING RECORD
                                                    CONTINUATION SHEET

                             TRAINEE'S RESPONSIBILITIES DURING UPGRADE TRAINING (UGT)

1. Read and understand your Air Force Specialty (AFS) description, training requirements, objectives, and training record.

2. Budget time (on- and off-duty) for timely completion of CDCs and keep all CDC materials for future reference and study.

3. Attain and maintain qualification in your assigned AFS.

4. After CDC briefing trainee will do the following: (Read and initial)
        a. Read "Your Key to a Successful Course" provided with your CDCs (yellow pamphlet).

        b. Make all required course corrections and return entire package to your supervisor.

______ c. When you are issued your first volume you will read and study the volume, chapter, and answer the
self-test questions and the unit review exercises (URE). Self-test questions will be answered in the space provided. Ensure you
highlight/reference where answers are found as determined by your supervisor.

_______ d. Supervisor will check unit review exercises and self-test questions for accuracy and completeness.
This will be accomplished at the completion of each Unit. You should be meeting with your trainer a minimum of once a week to
review progress, score UREs, and discuss the material in the unit. You will correct any errors.

_______ e. Supervisor issues the AFCDA Form 34 (Field-Scoring Answer Sheet) (formally ECI Form 34) for
you to transcribe your answers from the URE. These exercises are teaching devices and must be administered as open book
exercises. All scores of less than 100 percent require review training.

_______ f. Minimum acceptable training consists of correcting incorrect responses, reading the appropriate area from
which the question was taken, and a verbal question and answer session.

_______ g. Your supervisor issues your next volume. You will work all volumes in the same manner as above for the
entire course.

_______ h. Upon completion of your last volume, you and your supervisor will immediately start a
comprehensive review of the entire CDC in preparation for your course examination.

5. Review and discuss CDCs with supervisor/trainer at a minimum of once a week. Provide input on your training and ask
questions. You should complete your CDCs in six months or less. Working at a volume per month will significantly increase your
chances to pass the end of course exam.

6. Upon satisfactory completion of your career knowledge training, position qualification, and mandatory
requirements listed in AFMAN 36-2101, your supervisor will initiate upgrade action.


__________________________                        ______________________                        ______
SUPERVISOR'S SIGNATURE                            TRAINEE'S SIGNATURE                           DATE



LAST NAME                     FIRST NAME                      MIDDLE INITIAL

AF FORM 623A, MAR 79 (IMT-V1) or (EF -V2)             PREVIOUS EDITION WILL BE USED

                                 Figure 3.6. Sample, Upgrade Documentation

                                                                 60
                                        ON - THE - JOB TRAINING RECORD
                                              CONTINUATION SHEET

1 Aug 13
I know where to find a current copy of my job description and performance standards. I have read and discussed
them with my supervisor, and understand my duties and responsibilities. If I have questions or concerns I will seek
assistance from my supervisor.
Scooby D. Doo, AMN, USAF Medical
Diagnostic Imaging Journeyman
1 Sep 13

A1C Scooby D. Doo completed review of his job description and performance standards on this date. I am confident
that he is thoroughly familiar with standards and expectations. At this time A1C Scooby D. Doo has no questions or
concerns.

Deputy A. Dog, MSgt, USAF OJT
Trainer
NCOIC Diagnostic Imaging

LAST NAME            FIRST NAME            MIDDLE INITIAL

AF FORM 623A, MAR 79 (IMT-V1)           PREVIOUS EDITION WILL BE USED
                                Figure 3.7. Sample, Job Description Review




                                                          61
