                                               SUBJECT: Energy, Environment, Safety and Occupational Health (EESOH) Management System

                                               1. Columbus Air Force Base’s mission is to Produce Pilots, Advance Airmen, and Feed the Fight. We are
                                               committed to conducting this mission in an environmentally safe and responsible manner that will protect
                                               human health, natural resources and the environment. This commitment goes beyond compliance and
                                               encompasses the integration of a cost conscious culture (C3) and sound energy, environment, safety and
                                               occupational health (EESOH) practices into our daily decisions and activities.

                                               2. In support of our EESOH goals, we shall:

                                                  a. Comply with applicable federal, state, local and Air Force energy, environmental, safety and
                                                  occupational health laws, standards and other requirements.

                                                  b. Continually assess Columbus AFB activities to determine EESOH aspects and hazards and their
                                                  subsequent impact on the environment and safety of our personnel. Identify significant impacts and risks
                                                  and ensure they are considered when establishing mission objectives and targets.

JAMES R. SEARS, JR., Col, USAF                    c. Actively seek opportunities for pollution prevention, waste reduction and safe work practices.
Commander
                                                  d. Sustain the resource base through responsible use of water, energy, alternative fuels and environmentally-
                                                  friendly products and services.

                                                  e. Strive for continual improvement in our EESOH performance.

                                               3. Compliance with these EESOH goals is the responsibility of every member of Team BLAZE in accordance
                                               with his or her roles and responsibilities in the organization.

COLUMBUSAFBVA 90-3, 15 November 2012
Supersedes: 2 March 2011
OPR: 14 CES/CEAN
Prescribing Directive: AFI90-301
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering Releasability:
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication
