                        14th Flying Training Wing
                         Equal Opportunity (EO)
                                   “Equality and human dignity are essential elements to maintaining a
                                   quality force and are integral parts to readiness. The success of
                                   Columbus AFB depends on our ability to promote and encourage
                                   positive human relations at every opportunity. Every person will be
                                   afforded an equal opportunity to fulfill their potential without regard to
                                   race, color, religion, national origin or sex and in the case of civilian
                                   employees, age and handicapping conditions, except as prescribed by
                                   statute or policy. I expect every person to challenge inappropriate
                                   behavior immediately, raise the issues through your chain of command
                                   and, if necessary, contact the Equal Opportunity office for assistance.”



                                                                  BARRE R. SEGUIN, Colonel, USAF
                                                                  Commander, 14th Flying Training Wing


   The primary mission of the Air Force EO program is to improve
   mission effectiveness by promoting an environment free from
   personal, social or institutional barriers that prevent individuals
   from rising to the highest level of responsibility possible based on
   their individual merit, fitness and capability. This is accomplished
   through the use of alternative dispute resolution (ADR) techniques
   such as mediation and facilitation and by clarifying allegations of
   unlawful discrimination.        Commanders, first sergeants and
   supervisors are in the best position to efficiently address concerns.
   However, you have the right to seek the assistance of the EO office
   without fear of reprisal.

   The EO and ADR program offices are located in building 926, room 121,
   Columbus AFB. Military Equal Opportunity (MEO) and Equal Employment
   Opportunity (EEO) complaints can be made in person, or by contacting the
   EO staff at DSN 742-2546, Commercial (662) 434-2546. For after-hour
   emergency assistance contact the Columbus AFB command post at 434-7020.

COLUMBUSAFBVA36-1, 5 JANUARY 2011                                                       CERTIFIED BY: 14 FTW/EO
Supersedes all other postings, same subject                                             DISTRIBUTION : (Controlled by
OPR: 14 FTW/EO                                                                          OPR)
