BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               DAVISMONTHAN AFB INSTRUCTION 35-102
                                                                                           15 MARCH 2006

                                                                                               Public Affairs

                                                                                HONORARY SQUADRON
                                                                               COMMANDER PROGRAM



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally.


OPR: 355 WG/PA (Major Laurel P. Tingley)                                          Certified by: 355 WG/CC
                                                                                  (Col Michael W. Spencer)
                                                                                                    Pages: 4
                                                                                             Distribution: F

This instruction establishes policies and procedures governing the Davis-Monthan Air Force Base
(DMAFB) Honorary Commander Program to include support from base organizations and community
agencies. This instruction is applicable to all DMAFB units. Ensure all records created as a result of pro-
cesses prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with this manual, and are disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
afrims.amc.af.mil. Contact supporting records managers as required.


1. POLICY: The intent of the DMAFB Honorary Squadron Commander Program is to encourage an
exchange of ideas, experiences and friendship between key members of the local civilian community and
the Davis-Monthan military community. It will familiarize community leaders with the customs and cour-
tesies in addition to the rigors, demands and camaraderie of serving in the U.S. Air Force. The Honorary
Squadron Commander Program is intended to foster a supportive relationship between the base and the
community, increase military involvement in civic endeavors and organizations, and make the members
of our local community part of the “Desert Lightning” Team.

2. NOMINATION PROCEDURES: Any DMAFB Airman can nominate an Honorary Squadron Com-
mander. Honorary Squadron Commanders will consist of community leaders from industry and business;
professional and neighborhood associations; sports and entertainment; education, labor, religion, arts,
philanthropic, media and publishing organizations. The selection process will strive to include a propor-
tionate representation from the community. Military retirees cannot serve as an Honorary Squadron Com-
mander due to Commander's Representation Fund constraints. Nominators will submit nominations to
Public Affairs (PA).
   2.1. When possible, nominees will be aligned with a squadron paralleling the individual’s background
   or interest as long as there is no conflict of interest or perception of conflict of interest. Squadron com-
   manders may request an individual or community leader serve as their Honorary Commander, subject
   to wing commander approval.
2                                                 DAVISMONTHANAFBI35-102 15 MARCH 2006


    2.2. The normal tenure of an Honorary Squadron Commander will be 2 years (January-December).
    Each squadron will have one active honorary commander at any one time.
    2.3. If requested, a current Honorary Squadron Commander may terminate their term early. Should a
    particular Honorary Squadron Commander not fulfill their responsibilities, the 355th Wing Com-
    mander (355 WG/CC) may terminate their term early.
    2.4. When an Honorary Squadron Commander vacates their position early, the 355 WG/CC will
    select an individual to fill the vacancy at the earliest opportunity. The newly appointed Honorary
    Commander will complete the vacating Honorary Squadron Commander's term, plus an additional
    2-year tenure.

3. HONORARY CHANGE OF COMMAND CEREMONY: Normally, the Change of Command
Ceremony will be held annually at the Davis-Monthan Officers’ Club (if available).
    3.1. The change of command should consist of the following:
       3.1.1. Call to order, posting of colors, playing of the National Anthem and Invocation.
       3.1.2. Introduction of squadron commanders, the current and incoming Honorary Commanders
       and associated distinguished visitors.
       3.1.3. Remarks from either the 355 WG/CC or Vice Commander.
       3.1.4. Recognition award to outgoing Honorary Squadron Commanders. The award will acknowl-
       edge the positive role outgoing Honorary Squadron Commanders played within their squadron.
       3.1.5. Publication of orders. Orders will charge new Honorary Squadron Commanders with their
       roles and responsibilities.
    3.2. Honorary Squadron Commanders unable to attend the annual change of command should contact
    the PA office to make alternate arrangements.

4. RESPONSIBILITIES:
    4.1. 355 WG/CC responsibilities:
       4.1.1. Invite Honorary Squadron Commanders to significant wing functions, such as the Aero-
       space & Arizona Days Air Show and the Air Force Ball.
       4.1.2. Ensure Honorary Squadron Commanders are aware of expectations and opportunities asso-
       ciated with their new position.
       4.1.3. Coordinate for base-wide orientation or immersion days (e.g. Ops/Maintenance Group
       Day; Mission Support/Medical Group Day; 55th Electronic Combat Group/563d Rescue Group
       Day).
       4.1.4. Provide Honorary Squadron Commanders access to Wing MWR and Community activities
       on a non- or minimal interference basis. Examples include: Fitness Center, Pool, Golf Course,
       Library and Officers’ Club. Honorary Squadron Commanders will pay for access consistent with
       any fees paid by an AF Squadron Commander. Honorary Commanders may not use the: Army and
       Air Force Exchange Service, Commissary, or medical appointments.
    4.2. Squadron Commander responsibilities:
DAVISMONTHANAFBI35-102 15 MARCH 2006                                                                3


     4.2.1. Ensure the Honorary Squadron Commander is a welcome partner of the Desert Lightning
     Team.
         4.2.1.1. When appropriate, invite the Honorary Squadron Commanders to squadron functions.
         4.2.1.2. Provide opportunities for Honorary Squadron Commanders to experience squadron
         operations.
             4.2.1.2.1. Examples include: 355th Operations Support Squadron to observe Air Traffic
             Control Tower and Precision Approach Radar operations; Security Forces Squadron to
             observe Military Working Dog training and certification or Guardmount; Civil Engineer
             Squadron to observe Explosive Ordnance Disposal or Rapid Runway Repair training, etc.
             4.2.1.2.2. Under no circumstances will Honorary Squadron Commander activities place
             military operations, personnel, or Honorary Squadron Commanders at undue risk.
         4.2.1.3. If desired, squadron commanders may continue to invite past Honorary Squadron
         Commanders to unit events.
     4.2.2. Provide the Honorary Squadron Commander with a tour of their squadron work area(s) and
     introduce them to key personnel in the squadron.
     4.2.3. When scheduled, attend wing-sponsored Honorary Squadron Commander functions.
     4.2.4. Provide periodic feedback to PA on activities, how the program is working, and ideas on
     improving the program.
  4.3. Honorary Squadron Commander responsibilities:
     4.3.1. Be a pro-active supporter of the unit for which they are an Honorary Commander as well as
     DMAFB and the military community.
     4.3.2. Interact with squadron personnel to learn more about the Air Force and the mission of
     DMAFB.
     4.3.3. When invited as much as possible, attend squadron, group or wing functions (such as First
     Fridays, Airmen Leadership School Graduations, Squadron Hail and Farewells, Formal Training
     Unit Graduations, etc.)
     4.3.4. Comply with installation vehicle registration and insurance requirements, as well as motor
     vehicle operating regulations.
     4.3.5. Comply with all installation entry requirements including possible random vehicle inspec-
     tions.
  4.4. PA Responsibilities:
     4.4.1. Overall manager of the Honorary Squadron Commander Program.
     4.4.2. Establish and oversee selection procedures.
         4.4.2.1. Prepare a list of nominated individuals used by commanders when selecting their
         Honorary Squadron Commander.
         4.4.2.2. Provide an application for membership in the DMAFB Officers’ Club. This will
         enable Honorary Squadron Commanders to use the facility for personal and family dining and
         entertainment.
4                                                 DAVISMONTHANAFBI35-102 15 MARCH 2006


           4.4.2.3. Maintain the master list of all current and previous Honorary Commanders.
       4.4.3. Organize an annual change of command ceremony. WG/CC representation funds may be
       used for this event.
           4.4.3.1. If a new Honorary Squadron Commander is unable to attend the annual change of
           command ceremony, arrange for a change of command ceremony at the squadron at a later
           date.
       4.4.4. Provide an installation tour for new Honorary Squadron Commanders.
       4.4.5. Provide the SFS with an entry authority list of Honorary Squadron Commanders, to include
       the assigned squadron of each Honorary Commander.
    4.5. Judge Advocate Responsibilities:
       4.5.1. Determine procedures for squadron commanders to accept gifts from Honorary Command-
       ers.
           4.5.1.1. Brief squadron commanders on the code of ethics regarding gift receipt.
       4.5.2. When requested, coordinate with PA and the WG/CC to ensure no conflicts of interest
       occur during the Honorary Commander selection and matching process.
    4.6. Protocol Office responsibilities:
       4.6.1. Ensure Honorary Squadron Commander receive invitations to significant wing events (e.g.,
       social functions, Dining-Out, Annual Awards Banquet, etc.).
       4.6.2. Assist with Honorary Squadron Commander events as requested by the WG/CC.
    4.7. Services Squadron Responsibilities:
       4.7.1. Provide to Public Affairs applications for membership in the DMAFB Officers’ Club.
    4.8. SFS Responsibilities:
       4.8.1. Issue Honorary Squadron Commander entry passes. Passes will not exceed 1 year in dura-
       tion. SFS will keep a list of Honorary Squadron Commander pass numbers at the Craycroft, Swan,
       and Wilmot gates. Honorary Squadron Commanders will be granted base entry upon presentation
       of identification and verification against the posted entry authority list.



                                               MICHAEL W. SPENCER, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander
