BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               DAVISMONTHAN AFB INSTRUCTION 90-202
DAVIS-MONTHAN AFB                                                                       19 JANUARY 2006

                                                                                           Command Policy

                                                              COMPLIANCE AND SELF-INSPECTION
                                                                                    PROGRAM



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally.


OPR: 355 WG/XPI (Maj Steve Croll)                                               Certified by: 355 MSG/CC
                                                                               (Col Cesar A. Rodriquez, Jr.)
                                                                                                 Pages: 14
                                                                                            Distribution: F

This instruction establishes procedures for administering the 355 WG Compliance and Self-Inspection
Program. It outlines responsibilities to support requirements of AFPD 90-2, Inspector General – The
Inspection System, AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, AFI 90-201 ACC Sup 1, Inspector General
Activities, and AFI 90-201 ACC Sup 1 Addendum J, Unit Compliance Inspection. This instruction
applies to all units. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this document are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (to be AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and
are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
webrims.amc.af.mil. Contact supporting records managers as required.


1. Overview. The objective of the Compliance and Self-inspection Program (C/SIP) is to validate a unit’s
adherence to requirements derived from federal, DoD and higher headquarters directives and compliance
items identified in ACCI 90-202, ACC Compliance and Standardization Requirements Lists (C&SRL)
Program. A C/SIP provides an effective means of assessing mission performance and organizational
effectiveness through internal review. The intent is to provide commanders with a tool for internal assess-
ment of unit health and to complement external inspections and assessments.
   1.1. Program Criteria. A C/SIP is beneficial if it does the following:
       1.1.1. Assigns responsibilities.
       1.1.2. Tailors each unit’s structure and contains mechanisms to ensure adequate periodic
       inspection of the organization’s mission, resources, training and personnel programs.
       1.1.3. Establishes a method to identify, document, track and resolve deficiencies.
       1.1.4. Provides feedback to commanders.
       1.1.5. Ensures all AF, ACC, 12 AF, 355 WG and locally developed checklists are tailored
       properly and are current. You can find checklists at: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.
2                                                  DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-202 19 JANUARY 2006


       1.1.6. Establishes a method for crossfeed information relevant to the C/SIP.
    1.2. Purpose of the Inspections.
       1.2.1. The Unit Compliance Inspection (UCI) validates unit adherence to actions required by law,
       Executive Orders, safety guidelines, DoD and higher headquarters directives that, if not complied
       with, could result in death, serious injury, significant legal liabilities, penalties or significant mis-
       sion impact.
       1.2.2. ACC/IG will focus inspection efforts on Critical Compliance Objectives (CCOs), and use
       sequential and acceptance sampling techniques for core compliance items (CCIs) and general
       compliance items (GCIs).
    1.3. C&SRL (ACCDIRs 90-XXX) Development Process.
       1.3.1. Each unit or staff agency is responsible for drafting, formatting, coordinating, obtaining
       approval, and forwarding their C&SRL to their Group C/SIP monitor and 355 WG/XPI. The pri-
       mary purpose of the C&SRL is to facilitate unit compliance with applicable directives (i.e., Air
       Force Instructions, 355 WG instructions or supplements) and to promote standardization through-
       out the command in order to focus mission efforts. As a minimum, each unit or staff agency must
       review their C&SRLs and update as required.
       1.3.2. Each C&SRL must be identified by the publication series that covers the area of responsi-
       bility. You can find applicable C&SRLs at the following link: https://wwwmil.acc.af.mil/
       accpubs/pubs/90series/90series.htm. For example, 355 WG/PA will use ACCDIR 90-269, Pub-
       lic Affairs Functional Area.
       1.3.3. C&SRLs will consist of the following items: (Refer to Attachment 1).
           1.3.3.1. HQ ACC defines Critical Compliance Objectives (CCO) as key result areas for a suc-
           cessful mission accomplishment, including but not limited to items where noncompliance
           could result in serious injury, loss of life, excessive cost, or litigation. These CCOs are in
           BOLD ALL CAPS FORMAT.
           1.3.3.2. Core Compliance Items (CCI) are areas that require special vigilance and are impor-
           tant to the overall performance of the unit, but are not deemed Critical. Noncompliance would
           result in some negative impact to mission performance or could result in injury, unnecessary
           cost, or possible litigation. CCIs are in ALL CAPS FORMAT.
           1.3.3.3. General Compliance Items (GCI) are areas deemed fundamental to successful overall
           performance of the unit, but noncompliance would result in minimal impact on mission
           accomplishment or would be unlikely to result in injury, increased cost, or possible litigations.
           GCIs are in sentence case format.

2. Responsibilities.
    2.1. The Vice Wing Commander (355 WG/CV):
       2.1.1. Is the C/SIP office of primary responsibility (OPR).
       2.1.2. Appoints a wing C/SIP monitor (primary and alternate), in writing and delegates authority
       to them for the purpose of administering the 355 WG C/SIP.
       2.1.3. Directs compliance/self-inspections as necessary to meet mission requirements.
DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-202 19 JANUARY 2006                                                                      3


  2.2. Wing C/SIP Monitor will:
     2.2.1. Administer the 355 WG C/SIP.
     2.2.2. Ensure 355 WG units conduct semiannual self-inspections in Mar and Sep, or pending a
     HHQ UCI, quarterly as soon as the UCI date is announced, and submit their reports no later than
     the last day of the month for that month to 355 WG/XPI.
     2.2.3. Develop C/SIP policy and guidance in the form of this instruction.
     2.2.4. Serve as an inspection interface between 355 WG units, tenants, and outside agencies.
     2.2.5. Provide the Wing Commander information on open critical C/SIP discrepancies.
     2.2.6. Conduct Staff Assistance Visits (SAV) on group and wing staff agencies’ C/SIP programs
     to evaluate their effectiveness, adequacy and currency.
     2.2.7. Delegate squadron SAVs to group C/SIP monitors.
     2.2.8. Conduct training for group and wing staff agency C/SIP monitors on their duties and
     responsibilities.
     2.2.9. Delegate squadron training to group C/SIP monitors.
     2.2.10. Provide guidance to functional areas and work centers when developing local mission-ori-
     ented checklists (Attachment 1).
     2.2.11. Provide guidance to group, squadron and wing staff agencies on maintaining a C/SIP
     binder in accordance with paragraph 4. of this instruction.
     2.2.12. Manage the 355 WG C/SIP database, and user accounts/information. Interface with C/SIP
     database programmers on improvements and maintenance of the database.
  2.3. Group Commanders and Wing Staff Agency Chiefs will:
     2.3.1. Assign responsibilities for functional areas and additional duties critical to their mission.
     2.3.2. Identify, via a memorandum, functional areas and additional duties critical to their mission
     they need inspected during the semiannual or quarterly inspection.
     2.3.3. Appoint group/wing staff agency C/SIP monitors (primary and alternate) in writing to man-
     age the group/wing staff agency program and forward a copy of the appointment memorandum to
     the wing C/SIP (355 WG Staff Appointee) monitor with the monitors’ ranks, names, office sym-
     bols and duty phones (Attachment 2). Update all appointment letters when appointed C/SIP
     monitors change or when the appointing authority changes.
     2.3.4. Ensure C&SRLs or locally developed checklists have inspection items tailored to each
     unit’s structure and mission. Checklists will contain inspection questions that ensure adequate
     periodic inspection coverage of the organization’s mission, resources, training, and personnel pro-
     grams as required by AFIs, OIs or TOs.
     2.3.5. Review and endorse the group/wing staff agency semiannual/quarterly self-inspection sum-
     mary report (Attachment 3). Group commanders/wing staff agency chiefs will review all C/SIP
     discrepancies and provide a summary of results for their group/wing staff agency. The summary
     will include the status and plan to resolve open discrepancies, a summary of results for Critical
     and Non-Critical compliance area discrepancies, and a summary of results for any Special Interest
4                                                DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-202 19 JANUARY 2006


       Items (SIIs), or Commanders Certified Programs (CCPs) as identified by HHQ and ACC/IG, and
       can be found on the ACC/IG website. Forward the summary report to the 355 WG/XPI office.
    2.4. Group/Wing Staff C/SIP Monitors will:
       2.4.1. Act as the primary focal point for their subordinate units and are directly responsible for the
       quality of the C/SIP.
       2.4.2. Manage the group/wing staff agency C/SIP and maintain C/SIP records in a binder. See
       paragraph 4. for information and criteria.
       2.4.3. Ensure C&SRL or locally developed checklists have inspection items tailored to each unit’s
       structure and mission. C&SRL developed checklists will follow the format in (Attachment 1)
       until an electronic database is developed. Checklists will contain inspection questions that ensure
       adequate periodic inspection coverage of the organization’s mission, resources, training and per-
       sonnel programs, as required by AFIs, OIs or TOs.
       2.4.4. Ensure assigned units accomplish a semiannual self-inspection of each work center, func-
       tional area and additional duty in the months of Mar and Sep. The 355 WG/CV may direct addi-
       tional inspections as required.
       2.4.5. Ensure responsible agencies enter a new entry into the 355 WG C/SIP database for any dis-
       crepancy that cannot be corrected on the spot. The 355 WG C/SIP database is accessible at https:/
       /wingxp/UCI/ucicover.htm.
       2.4.6. Ensure if a discrepancy is found during an exercise (as indicated by a problem write-up in
       an exercise report), that it is entered into the 355 WG C/SIP database as an open item.
       2.4.7. Track open discrepancies until closed. Open items will have a corrective action entry
       entered in the 355 WG C/SIP database monthly. Enter corrective action updates for each open dis-
       crepancy into the 355 WG C/SIP database by the 15th of every month following the month the dis-
       crepancy was entered into the system. Take aggressive corrective actions to resolve discrepancies.
       2.4.8. Provide an update to the group commander/wing staff agency chief and the 355 WG C/SIP
       monitor on C/SIP status monthly and after C/SIP semiannual/quarterly inspection closeout.
       2.4.9. Provide 355 WG C/SIP monitor with updated listing of all assigned squadron/wing staff
       agency C/SIP monitors annually, or as changes occur. List will include monitors’ rank, name,
       squadron, office symbol and duty phone (Attachment 2).
       2.4.10. Immediately inform the 355 WG C/SIP monitor when an individual no longer requires
       access to the C/SIP database.
       2.4.11. Review all group/wing staff agency C/SIP database entries periodically during each
       month. Reviews will include checking for overdue estimated completion dates (ECDs), overdue
       30 day updates, etc. C/SIP monitors will aggressively follow up on errors and take corrective
       actions.
       2.4.12. Conduct random checks of squadron/wing staff agency and functional area C/SIP binders
       to evaluate their effectiveness, adequacy and currency.
       2.4.13. Distribute items of interest and crossfeed other units’ (including those located at other
       bases) inspection reports.
DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-202 19 JANUARY 2006                                                                      5


     2.4.14. Consolidate and forward a group/wing staff agency summary report of the required
     self-inspection (Attachment 3) to the group commander/wing staff agency chief for review and
     endorsement. Forward group/wing staff agency summary reports to the 355 WG C/SIP monitor.
     2.4.15. Have all applicable Air Force Special Interest Items (SIIs), ACC SIIs and 12 AF High
     Interest Items in their C/SIP binders. You can find these at https://wingxp/UCI/ucicover.htm.
  2.5. Squadron Commanders will:
     2.5.1. Appoint a C/SIP monitor (primary and alternate) in writing who will manage the squadron
     C/SIP. Forward an appointment memorandum (Attachment 2) to the applicable group C/SIP
     monitor. Update all appointment letters when appointed C/SIP monitors change or when the
     appointing authority changes.
     2.5.2. Identify, via a memorandum, functional areas and additional duties critical to their mission
     they need inspected during the semiannual/quarterly inspection.
     2.5.3. Review and endorse the squadron self-inspection summary report (Attachment 4). Squad-
     ron commanders will review all C/SIP discrepancies and provide a summary of results for their
     squadron. The summary will include the status and plan to resolve open discrepancies, a summary
     of results for each compliance area discrepancy, and a summary of results for any special interest
     items or IG crossfeed items. Forward the summary report to the group C/SIP monitor.
  2.6. Squadron C/SIP Monitors will:
     2.6.1. Act as the primary focal point for their unit and are directly responsible for the quality of
     the C/SIP.
     2.6.2. Manage the squadron’s C/SIP and maintain C/SIP records in a binder. See Paragraph 4. for
     information and criteria.
     2.6.3. Ensure C&SRLs or locally developed checklists have inspection items tailored to each
     unit’s structure and mission. C&SRL developed checklists will follow the format in (Attachment
     1) until an electronic database is developed. Review all checklists and AFIs used for inspections
     prior to each semiannual/quarterly inspection to ensure the most current version is in use. Check-
     lists will contain inspection questions that ensure adequate periodic inspection coverage of the
     organization’s mission, resources, training and personnel programs.
     2.6.4. Ensure functional area monitors accomplish a semiannual/quarterly self-inspection of each
     functional area, work center and additional duty in the month of Mar and Sep. The 355 WG/CV
     may direct additional inspections as required.
     2.6.5. Ensure squadron agencies enter a new database entry into the 355 WG C/SIP database for
     any discrepancy that cannot be corrected on the spot. The 355 WG C/SIP database is accessible at
     https://wingxp/UCI/ucicover.htm/.
     2.6.6. Ensure if a discrepancy is found during an exercise (as indicated by a problem write-up in
     an exercise report), that it is entered into the 355 WG C/SIP database as an open discrepancy.
     2.6.7. Track open discrepancies until closed. Open items will have a corrective action entry
     entered in the 355 WG C/SIP database monthly. Enter corrective action updates for each open dis-
     crepancy into the C/SIP database by the 15th of every month following the month the discrepancy
     was entered into the system. Take aggressive corrective actions to resolve discrepancies.
6                                                DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-202 19 JANUARY 2006


       2.6.8. Review all database entries for their unit periodically during every month. Reviews will
       include checking for overdue ECDs, overdue 30 day updates, etc. C/SIP monitors will aggres-
       sively follow up on errors and take corrective actions.
       2.6.9. Brief the squadron commander on C/SIP status after C/SIP semiannual/quarterly self
       inspection closeout and monthly. Provide latest status update on all open discrepancies to the
       group C/SIP monitor.
       2.6.10. Complete and forward unit self-inspection summary report (see Attachment 4) to the
       Squadron Commander. Forward squadron inspection reports to the appropriate group C/SIP mon-
       itor.
       2.6.11. Conduct semiannual/quarterly checks of functional area manager C/SIP binders to evalu-
       ate their effectiveness, adequacy and currency.
       2.6.12. Have all applicable Air Force Special Interest Items (SIIs), ACC SIIs and 12 AF High
       Interest Items in their C/SIP binders. You can find these at https://wingxp/UCI/ucicover.htm.
    2.7. Group/Wing Staff Agency/Squadron Functional Area Manager (FAM) will:
       2.7.1. Use ACCDIRs, AFIs, OIs, or TOs to help develop local checklists for each functional area
       per paragraph 3., to be included in their C/SIP binders. Maintain C&SRL for assigned areas and
       review all checklists and AFIs used for inspections at the beginning of each semiannual/quarterly
       self-inspection.
          2.7.1.1. Forward locally developed checklists for review/approval to the group, wing staff
          agency or squadron C/SIP monitor.
          2.7.1.2. Perform self-inspections, SAVs and ensure a database entry is made in the 355 WG C/
          SIP database for any discrepancy that cannot be corrected on the spot. In addition, they will
          notify the group/wing staff agency/squadron C/SIP monitor of the discrepancy.
       2.7.2. Ensure discrepancies found during an exercise (as indicated by a problem write-up in an
       exercise report) are entered into the 355 WG C/SIP database as an open discrepancy. In addition,
       notify the group/wing staff agency/squadron C/SIP monitor of the discrepancy.
       2.7.3. Track open discrepancies until closed. Open items will have a corrective action entry
       entered in the 355 WG C/SIP database monthly. Enter corrective action updates for each open dis-
       crepancy into the C/SIP database by the 15th of every month following the month the discrepancy
       was entered into the system. Take aggressive corrective actions to resolve discrepancies.
       2.7.4. Review crossfeed items for their area and if applicable, incorporate findings into functional
       area checklists.
       2.7.5. Forward inspection reports to squadron C/SIP monitor. The due date and format of the
       report will be determined by the group/wing staff agency/squadron C/SIP monitor.

3. Checklists (Attachment 1):
    3.1. Unit/staff agencies may obtain AFCLs and C&SRL from the AF Pubs Library at
    http://www.epublishing.af.mil.
DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-202 19 JANUARY 2006                                                                     7


      3.1.1. Use C&SRLSs or develop local checklists with unit-specific inspection items. Review all
      checklists and AFIs used for inspections prior to each semiannual/quarterly self-inspection.
   3.2. These checklists will allow functional area monitors, squadron, wing staff agency chiefs, group
   and wing leadership to focus corrective action efforts.
   3.3. FAM may choose to subdivide a checklist into sub-functional parts. The amount of material and
   nature of the functional area will dictate a checklist’s organization and is subject to owner user prefer-
   ence but must at least follow the format in (Attachment 1).
   3.4. List each checklist item as a single question, capable of being answered by either a “yes,” “no”
   or “n/a” followed by a regulation reference in parentheses, and a remarks column for additional com-
   ments. Use AF Form 3132, General Purpose Form (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/formfiles/af/
   af3132/af3132.xfd), or locally developed forms when creating new checklists. Cut and paste applica-
   ble C&SRL to this form if needed.
   3.5. Do not duplicate checklist items.

4. Maintaining Record Sets. Group, wing staff agency and squadron monitors will ensure the C/SIP
binders contain the following with a table of contents:
   4.1. Cover letter introducing unit, its objectives, and any addition mission specific items the unit
   wishes to note.
      4.1.1. Table of Contents.
      4.1.2. Compliance/Self Inspection Review: (Use AF Form 3132); type, date and individual
      accomplishing the review as a minimum, semiannually or during an inspection/SAV.
   4.2. Section 1. “Self Inspection Appointment Letter” (As Applicable)
      4.2.1. Letter of appointment for wing C/SIP monitor.
      4.2.2. Letter of appointment for wing staff agency C/SIP monitor.
      4.2.3. Letter of appointment for group C/SIP monitor.
      4.2.4. Letter of appointment for squadron C/SIP monitor.
   4.3. Section 2. “Key Personnel Roster” (As Applicable)
      4.3.1. Organizational listing of unit with Name, Duty Phone, Office Symbol.
      4.3.2. May include any additional contact information (i.e., Wing, ACC/IG, etc.)
   4.4. Section 3. “Self Inspection Checklist”
      4.4.1. Self Inspection Checklist, C&SRL and/or Commander’s memorandum identifying func-
      tional areas and additional duties that require semiannual or quarterly inspections (Attachment 1).
   4.5. Section 4. “Self and Unit Compliance Inspection Report and Findings”
      4.5.1. Copies of any self inspections/review, staff assistance visits, Inspector General Visits or any
      other formal inspections from 355 WG or external agencies.
      4.5.2. Copies of the 355 WG’s last Operational Readiness Inspection (ORI), and Unit Compliance
      Inspection (CI) reports (cross reference or electronic copy are acceptable).
8                                                  DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-202 19 JANUARY 2006


       4.5.3. Most recent copy on top, and maintain local inspection copies for 2 years, and HHQ for 5
       years.
    4.6. Section 5. “Inspection Guides”
       4.6.1. AF, ACC and 12 AF guidance (cross reference sheet for electronic copies are acceptable).
       4.6.2. Printed copy of this publication.
       4.6.3. AF/ACC SIIs and 12 AF High Interest Items if applicable.
    4.7. Section 6. “Other Related Material”

5. Inspection Process. During your inspection, prove with documentation that all your compliance items
are, in fact, in compliance. Documentation is the only way to prove compliance. Therefore you must
show inspectors in great detail your program.
    5.1. Checklists. Mark each checklist step with a check in the Complies (COM), Complies with Com-
    ments (CWC), or Does Not Comply (DNC) with remarks and Estimated Completion Date (ECD).
    When completing all applicable checklists steps, annotate discrepancies as required. FAM will sign
    and date the checklists during the inspection process.
    5.2. Remarks. Place a written explanation in paragraph format along with the location of documents
    supporting the answer to each checklist question (in a remarks section) applicable to the checklist
    question or place it on a separate page and numbered to reference each applicable checklist question if
    there isn’t enough space.
       5.2.1. If the answer to the checklist question is "Yes" the written explanation and/or documenta-
       tion will be sufficient to convince the reviewer you are in compliance, and members taking over
       that duty.
       5.2.2. If the answer to the checklist question is "N/A" there will be sufficient written justification
       that this question does not apply.
       5.2.3. If the answer to the checklist question is "No" then there will be an entry into the 355 WG
       C/SIP database that documents the discrepancy. The entry will explain the problem and corrective
       action being taken.
    5.3. Tracking Open Discrepancies. Label the entry (CCO 01, ACCDIR 90-XXX, POC/ph #) for
    tracking purposes.
       5.3.1. DNC entries will have an estimated completion date, persons contacted, and follow-up
       actions dictated until completion.
       5.3.2. Compile your unit’s respective self-inspection report IAW Attachments 3 & 4 and forward
       to the respective agency for coordination and final review.



                                                  MICHAEL W. SPENCER, Colonel, USAF

                                                  Commander, 355th Wing
DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-202 19 JANUARY 2006                                                                 9


                                              Attachment 1

                              SAMPLE FORMATING FOR C&SRLS
                                     C/SIP CHECKLIST


GROUP          SQUADRON O F F I C E              PUBLICATION OPR                   DATE
                        SYMBOL                   SERIES
355 WG         N/A              PA               35-101            Jane Doe        Self
                                                                                   Explanatory


Subject: ACCDIR 90-269, Public Affairs (PA) Functional Area


CCO      QUESTION                    REF        C   D     C   REMARKS
                                                O   N     W
                                                M   C     C
CCO-1 DOES THE PUBLIC                AFI        X   -     -   On a daily basis, PA does the
      AFFAIRS OFFICE                 35-101                   following…
      (PAO) PROVIDE
      TRUSTED COUNSEL
      AND ADVICE TO
      LEADERS?
1.1   When does the PAO meet         AFI        X   -     -   0745 Roll call with CC and every
      with the Senior                35-101                   Tuesday 0900 Staff Mtg.
      Installation Commander
      and other senior staff
      members and
      commanders?
1.2   Does the PAO have              AFI            X     -   In event WG/CC is absent, PA
      immediate access to the        35-101                   coordinates with Vice, and CC will
      senior commander?                                       be back briefed.
1.3   Do commanders and staff        AFI        X   -     -   PA is involved in the planning and
      members consult with           35-101                   execution of all projects on base that
      Public Affairs concerning                               have public interest.
      unit issues that will have a
      significant impact on the
      mission, programs, and
      activities?
1.4   Is the PAO involved in all     AFI        X             PAO develops all PA guidance for
      aspects of the PA              35-101                   the 355 WG
      mission?
10                                           DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-202 19 JANUARY 2006


                                          Attachment 2

                           SAMPLE C/SIP APPOINTMENT LETTER
                                                                              (Date)


MEMORANDUM FOR 355 WG Compliance/Self-Inspection Monitor


FROM: GROUP/SQUADRON CC


SUBJECT: Appointment of Compliance/Self-Inspection Program (C/SIP) Monitor


1. IAW DMAFBI 90-202, the following individuals are the C/SIP monitors for (unit):


RANK/NAME                      OFFICE SYMBOL                   DUTY PHONE


2 Lt Jane Doette (Primary):    355 WG/XYZ                      8-5555
CMSgt John Doe (Alternate):    355 WG/XYZZ                     8-5555


2. This memorandum supersedes our memorandum dated ______, same subject.




                                                               NAME, RANK, USAF
                                                               (COMMANDER)




cc:
355 WG/XPI
DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-202 19 JANUARY 2006                                                                   11


                                              Attachment 3

                SAMPLE GROUP/WING STAFF AGENCY REPORT SUMMARY
                                                                                            (DATE)


MEMORANDUM FOR 355 C/SIP MONITOR


FROM: Group/Wing Staff Agency C/SIP Monitor


Subject: Semiannual Self-Inspection (or Quarterly) (C/SIP) Summary Report


1. The (unit) has completed the semiannual/quarterly self-inspection as of (date).


2. (Status and plan to resolve open ACC/IG discrepancies, if applicable) i.e. (We currently do not have any
open IG discrepancies from IG inspections. Item 04-xxxx was an IG discrepancy and was closed xx Sep
20xx).


3. Summary of results: (in each compliance inspection area, include the list below and a paragraph written
by the group commander describing any trends and the overall health of the group) i.e. (I have reviewed
our SIP discrepancies listed in the attached documents. At this time I feel that we are doing well and will
have most of our discrepancies closed within xx months. Item 04-xxxx is a long-term budget item and has
been identified to wing budget personnel and is on the wing unfunded listing).


CRITICAL DISCREPANCIES:
(1) Number of critical discrepancies closed since last report 4
(2) Number of critical discrepancies remaining open from last report 1
(3) Number of new open critical discrepancies 8
(4) Number of current open critical discrepancies 9


MAJOR DISCREPANCIES:
(1) Number of major discrepancies closed since last report 6
(2) Number of major discrepancies remaining open from last report 5
(3) Number of new open major discrepancies 10
(4) Number of current open major discrepancies 15
12                                               DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-202 19 JANUARY 2006


4. (Summary of results for any SIIs, CCOs, or IG crossfeed issues, if applicable) i.e. (The group is in the
process of complying with SIIs 04-1, 04-2, and 04-3. We have seen no compliance problems at this time
and expect to have all inspected areas complete by xx June 20xx).


5. Please contact me at dsn XXX-XXXX if you have any questions concerning results of our self-inspec-
tion.




                                                     FULL NAME, Rank, USAF
                                                     (Group/Wing Staff Agency C/SIP Monitor)




Attachment:
CC’s memorandum describing functional areas and additional duties to be/were inspected during the
semiannual/quarterly inspection




1st Ind, (Office Symbol of Group CC/Wing Staff Agency Chief)


MEMORANDUM FOR (Group/Wing Staff C/SIP Monitor)


Concur/Nonconcur with unit(s) self-inspection results.




                                                     FULL NAME, Rank, USAF
                                                     Group CC/Wing Staff Agency Chief
DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-202 19 JANUARY 2006                                                                  13


                                              Attachment 4

                            SAMPLE SQUADRON REPORT SUMMARY
                                                                                            (DATE)


MEMORANDUM FOR GROUP C/SIP MONITOR


FROM: (Squadron C/SIP Monitor)


Subject: Semiannual (or Quarterly) Self-Inspection Summary Report


1. The (unit) has completed the semiannual/quarterly self-inspection as of (date).


2. (Status and plan to resolve open ACC/IG discrepancies, if applicable) i.e. (We currently do not have any
open IG discrepancies from IG inspections. Item 04-xxxx was an IG discrepancy and was closed xx Sep
20xx).


3. Summary of results: (in each compliance inspection area, include the list below and a paragraph written
by the squadron commander describing any trends and the overall health of the squadron) i.e. (I have
reviewed our C/SIP discrepancies listed in the attached documents. At this time I feel that we are doing
well and should have most of our discrepancies closed within xx months. Item 04-xxxx is a long term bud-
get item and has been identified to wing budget personnel and is on the wing unfunded listing).


a. CRITICAL DISCREPANCIES:
(1) Number of critical discrepancies closed since last report 4
(2) Number of critical discrepancies remaining open from last report 1
(3) Number of new open critical discrepancies 8
(4) Number of current open critical discrepancies 9


b. MAJOR DISCREPANCIES:
(1) Number of major discrepancies closed since last report 6
(2) Number of major discrepancies remaining open from last report 5
(3) Number of new open major discrepancies 10
(4) Number of current open major discrepancies 15
14                                                DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-202 19 JANUARY 2006


4. (Summary of results for any SIIs or IG crossfeed issues, if applicable) i.e. (The squadron is in the pro-
cess of complying with SIIs 04-1, 04-2, and 04-3. We have seen no compliance problems at this time and
expect to have all inspected areas complete by xx June 20xx).
5. Please contact me at extension DSN XXX-XXXX if you have any questions concerning results of our
self-inspection.




                                                      FULL NAME, Rank, USAF
                                                      Squadron SIP Monitor
Attachment:
CC’s memorandum describing functional areas and additional duties to be inspected during the
semiannual/quarterly inspection




1st Ind, (Office Symbol of Squadron CC)


MEMORANDUM FOR (Group C/SIP Monitor)


Concur/Non-concur with (Unit)’s self-inspection results.




                                                      FULL NAME, Rank, USAF
                                                      Squadron CC
