BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           DAVIS-MONTHAN AFB INSTRUCTION
DAVIS-MONTHAN AIR FORCE BASE                                                36-801

                                                                                9 MARCH 2011

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                        ENVIRONMENTAL DIFFERENTIAL
                                                        PAY/HAZARD PAY DIFFERENTIAL

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downlading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: FSS/FSMC                                                        Certified by: 355 MSG/CC
Supersedes: DMAFBI36-801, 15 Jul 1997                                  (Col Charles R. Hunter)
                                                                                        Pages: 8


This instruction implements DoD Instruction 6055.1, DoD Safety and Occupational Health
Program and AFPD 36-8, Employee Benefits and Entitlements. It establishes local methods and
procedures to be used when identifying, initiating, analyzing, evaluating, approving, validating,
and reviewing the basis for paying Environmental Differential Pay (EDP) or Hazard Pay
Differential (HPD). Air Force management philosophy has always been to eliminate or alleviate
the hazard so that the workplace (working environment) meets or exceeds prevailing safety
standards. The object is to assure that all hazardous situations, physical hardship and working
conditions of an unusually severe nature are eliminated or reduced to the lowest level possible.
It applies to all Department of the Air Force Appropriated Fund (DAF APF) civilians and AFRC
(Air Force Reserve Command) Air Reserve Technician (ART) civilians exposed to known
environmental/hazardous conditions in the performance of their duties. It implements applicable
parts of Title 5 United States Code, Code of Federal Regulations (5 CFR) and the U.S. Office of
Personnel Management Federal Wage System Operating Manual. By law, Federal agencies are
required to follow OSHA safety and health standards in order to protect employees from a
significant risk of material health or functional impairment that may be experienced because of
hazards in the workplace. EDP/Hazard pay shall be discontinued when safety precautions have
reduced the element of hazard to a less than significant level of risk, consistent with generally
accepted standards that may be applicable, such as those published by OSHA. This publication
does not apply to ANG (Air National Guard) or Non-Appropriated Fund (NAF) personnel.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed
of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Contact supporting records managers as required. Refer recommended changes and questions
 2                                           DAVIS-MONTHANAFBI36-801 9 MARCH 2011


about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major
changes include:
1. DEFINITION: DAF APF civilian employees exposed, while performing their assigned
duties, to a hazard, physical hardship, or working condition of an unusually severe nature that
has not been practically eliminated by use of protective devices, engineering design changes,
process changes or administrative controls are paid for such exposure if it is authorized in:
     1.1. General Schedule (GS) Employees. 5 CFR, Part 550.903, Establishment of hazard pay
     differentials, Subpart I, and Appendix A.
     1.2. Federal Wage System (FWS) Employees (i.e., Wage Grade (WG), Wage Leader (WL),
     Wage Supervisor (WS)). 5 CFR, Part 532.511, Environmental Differentials, and U.S. Office
     of Personnel Management Federal Wage System Operating Manual, Subchapter 8 Pay
     Administration, S8-7 and Appendix J.
     1.3. (Added) National Security Personnel System (NSPS) employees. DoD 1400.25-M,
     DoD Civilian Personnel Manual, Subchapter 1930 Compensation Architecture Pay Policy,
     SC1930.25 and Appendix 5.
2. RESPONSIBILITY:
     2.1. General. All base personnel have a continuing responsibility to identify and initiate
     requests for investigation or take positive action to eliminate any hazard, physical hardship,
     or working condition that could result in significant discomfort, distress, injury, illness, or
     death. Supervisors, managers, and commanders of civilian employees, as well as Bio-
     environmental Engineering (355 AMDS/SGPB), Civilian Personnel Section (355
     FSS/FSMC), and Safety Office (355 FW/SE or 309 AMARG/QP-SE, as appropriate) will be
     fully knowledgeable of the prescribing directives in order to discharge their responsibilities.
     2.2. Specific:
        2.2.1. Civilian employees must make their immediate supervisor aware of any work
        situation(s) they believe to be unsafe and would qualify for EDP or HPD. Employees are
        responsible for following established work methods and safety procedures and using
        prescribed protective devices.
        2.2.2. Supervisors will:
            2.2.2.1. Answer employee questions about EDP or HPD.
            2.2.2.2. Identify within their function work situations specified in applicable
            directives that are authorized EDP or HPD.
            2.2.2.3. Encourage employees to identify unsafe work situations and consider their
            suggestions about how to eliminate such situations or actions that might be taken to
            protect employees where practical elimination of the hazard is not possible.
DAVIS-MONTHANAFBI36-801 9 MARCH 2011                                                       3


        2.2.2.4. Properly and completely fill out Section I of AF Form 683, Request for
        Environmental Differential Pay and submit request to 355 FSS/FSMC.
        2.2.2.5. Keep affected employees informed of the status of AF Form 683 and provide
        them a copy indicating approval or disapproval.
        2.2.2.6. Follow civilian pay directives outlined in DoD Financial Management
        Regulation 7700.14-R, Volume 8: Civilian Pay Policy & Procedures, Chapter 3 Pay
        Administration (Aug 1999) and Defense Civ Pay System – Customer Service
        Representative Users Manual for documenting, certifying, and submitting time cards
        containing EDP or HPD time for approved work situations.
        2.2.2.7. Immediately notify the EDP/HPD approval authority in writing when a
        condition approved for EDP/HPD is made safe or has been practically eliminated, and
        recommend termination of differential pay.
     2.2.3. Commanders and managers. Ensure adherence to EDP and HPD directives by
     subordinates and support the supervisor in eliminating unsafe working conditions by
     planning and budgeting for protective equipment, supplies and/or required construction.
     2.2.4. Civilian Personnel Section (355 FSS/FSMC) will:
        2.2.4.1. Discuss or consult with employee organizations on program matters.
        2.2.4.2. Receive, review, and evaluate AF Form 683 prepared by supervisors.
        2.2.4.3. Determine sufficiency, adequacy, and completeness of AF Form 683.
        2.2.4.4. Forward one copy of AF Form 683 with all attachments to bio-
        environmental engineers, safety officers, and local union officials within 15 work
        days of receipt.    Suspense and monitor for return of written safety and
        bioenvironmental medical evaluations, opinions, and recommendations.
        2.2.4.5. Conduct on-site visits to work areas to review and evaluate described work
        situations.
        2.2.4.6. Compile all available data and render approval/disapproval decisions, with
        written justification, within 30 work days of receipt/review of AF Form 683 by the
        EDP committee.
        2.2.4.7. Notify employees, supervisors, management, safety, and medical activities of
        decision within 15 work days of approval/disapproval.
        2.2.4.8. Provide payroll activity with copies of AF Form 683 for positions approved
        for EDP or HPD.
        2.2.4.9. Retain all originally signed AF Forms 683, a copy of applicable position
        descriptions, and related documentation.
     2.2.5. Bio-environmental Engineering (355 AMDS/SGPB). Within 15 work days of
     receipt of AF Form 683, provide 355 FSS/FSMC with written technical investigation,
     evaluations, opinions, and recommendations pertaining to work situations proposed for
     differential pay.
 4                                        DAVIS-MONTHANAFBI36-801 9 MARCH 2011


      2.2.6. Safety Office (355 FW/SE or 309 AMARG/QP-SE, as appropriate). Within 15
      work days of receipt of AF Form 683, provide 355 FSS/FSMC with written technical
      investigation, evaluations, opinions, and recommendations pertaining to work situations
      proposed for differential pay.
      2.2.7. EDP Committee Functions:
          2.2.7.1. Evaluate situations submitted for review against appropriate governing
          criteria.
          2.2.7.2. (Added) Explore possibilities for elimination or reduction of the hazardous
          or severe working conditions that exist.
          2.2.7.3. (Added) Make recommendations on eligibility for EDP or HPD to the
          Civilian Personnel Officer.
          2.2.7.4. (Added) Notify parties submitting situations of determinations rendered.
          2.2.7.5. (Added) Biennially review all current approved situations to determine
          whether the hazard or physical hardship has been practically eliminated to the degree
          which would preclude continuance of payment of the differential.
      2.2.8. (Added) Biennial Review. The EDP Committee members consist of
      representatives from civilian personnel, bio-environmental engineering, safety, and union
      officials. The EDP Committee will meet with first-line supervisors and managers to
      perform a biennial review of each work situation approved for payment of differential
      pay. Reviews/recertifications will be made by each responsible party on the originally
      signed AF Form 683.
          2.2.8.1. (Added) New requests. The civilian personnel office will convene a meeting
          with bio-environmental engineering, safety, and union officials (the EDP Committee)
          to discuss new requests for EDP or HPD, as required, or when requested by a
          committee member.
3. Adopted and Prescribed Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009.




                                           PAUL T. JOHNSON, Brig Gen, USAF
                                           Commander, 355th Fighter Wing
DAVIS-MONTHANAFBI36-801 9 MARCH 2011                                                           5


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 5, United States Code, Government Organization and Employees, current edition
Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, Parts 1-699, Administrative Personnel, current edition
5 CFR, Part 532, Prevailing Rate Systems, current edition
5 CFR, Part 550, Pay Administration (General), current edition
United States Office of Personnel Management Federal Wage System Operating Manual, current
edition
DoD Directive 1400.25, DoD Civilian Personnel Management System, current edition
DoD Manual 1400.25 DoD Civilian Personnel Manual, Subchapters 550 and 1930, current
edition
DoD Instruction 6055.1, DoD Safety and Occupational Health (SOH) Program, current edition
DoD Regulation 7000.14-R, DoD Financial Management Regulation (D0DFMR), current
edition
AFPD 36-801, Employee Benefits and Entitlements, current edition
AFMAN 36-115, supplementing DoDM1400.25, DoD Civilian Personnel Manual,7 Aug 07 and
C1 18 Jul 08

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AMARG— Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Group
AMDS— Aerospace Medical Squadron
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
DAF APF— Department of the Air Force Appropriated Fund
EDP— Environmental Differential Pay
FSS— Force Support Squadron
FWS— Federal Wage System
GS— General Schedule
HPD— Hazard Pay Differential
NSPS—National Security Personnel System
OPM—Office of Personnel Management
U.S.C—United States Code
WG— Wage Grade
WL— Wage Leader
 6                                        DAVIS-MONTHANAFBI36-801 9 MARCH 2011


WS— Wage Supervisor

Terms
Environmental Differential Pay— additional pay for exposure to various degrees of hazards,
physical hardships, and working conditions of an unusually severe nature which could result in
significant injury, significant physical discomfort/distress, illness or death (applies to FWS
employees).
Federal Wage System— classification system which covers occupations having trade, craft or
labor experience and knowledge as the paramount requirement (i.e., skilled mechanical craft, or
unskilled, semiskilled, or skilled manual labor occupations).
Hazard Pay Differential— additional pay for the performance of hazardous duty or duty
involving physical hardship (applies to GS/NSPS employees).
Hazardous Duty— duty performed under circumstances in which an accident could result in
serious injury or death.
DAVIS-MONTHANAFBI36-801 9 MARCH 2011                                                               7


                                           Attachment 2
                   INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING AF FORM 683

SECTION I
Request for Approval
ITEM 1. TO: 355 FSS/FSMC
ITEM 2. Organization Designation: Exact location of position(s) within the organization(s).
ITEM 3. Date request is completed and signed by immediate supervisor.
ITEM 4. Position Title, Series and Grade: From item 4 and 5 of current AF Form 1378, Position
Description, AF Form 1003, Core Document, or item 16 of current DD Form 2918 for
positions/employees affected.
ITEM 5. Position Number. Five-digit number taken from current AF Form 1378 or AF Form
1003. If more space is needed use page two of AF Form 683.
ITEM 6. Description of Work Situation: (one work situation per form.) Include detailed,
specific and complete information about the hazard, physical hardship or working condition
showing clearly that the exposure is of an unusually severe nature or results in an unusual
physical hardship, how much the employee is exposed, how long the exposures have existed and
will continue to exist and how much control may be exercised over the work situation.
ITEM 7. Description of Corrective Action Taken to Eliminate or Reduce Situation: Identify
safety precautions, safety or protective clothing, facilities, protective or mechanical devices,
protective or safety equipment which are available/prescribed, how they are used and
effectiveness in practically eliminating the hazard. Identify any other applicable safety
procedures employed and explain why they don't practically eliminate the unusually severe
hazard/working condition or physical hardship.
ITEM 8. Title of Applicable Category: Provide the Part (i.e., Part I – Actual Exposure or Part II
– Basis of Hours In Pay Status), Category, and Title from the appropriate directive authorizing
the differential pay. Example: OPM FWS Operating Manual Appendix J, Part I, Category 4-
Dirty Work
ITEM 9. Differential Rate (From same source as Item 8). Example: 4% (this is based on the
above example category identified in Item 8, above)
ITEM 10. Official Authorized to Assign Work: The immediate supervisor of the position.
ITEM 11. Official authorized to approve payroll documentation: May or may not be the same
individual authorized to assign work. Normally, the next higher-level supervisor.
ITEM 12. Name, Title, and Signature of Recommending Official: This official must be at the
next higher organizational level than either of the officials in Items 10 or 11. Normally, the
squadron-level commander or director (if civilian led).
ITEM 13. Date recommending official signs the request.
Page 2, AF Form 683: Use this area to identify the affected employees’ names, pay plan, series
and grade, position title, civilian position control number and manpower authorization number.
 8                                           DAVIS-MONTHANAFBI36-801 9 MARCH 2011


NOTE: The Air Force created AF Form 683 for requesting EDP. Use is not restricted, but the
form may not be revised in any way. When using AF Form 683 for requesting HPD, specify that
the request is for Hazard Pay Differential in accordance with 5 CFR (Code of Federal
Regulations) Part 550.901, Subpart I, and Appendix A. For NSPS positions requesting HPD,
reference DoD 1400.25-M, Subchapter 1930 Compensation Architecture Pay Policy, SC1930.25
and Appendix 5. If needed, samples of completed AF Form 683 are available upon request from
355 FSS/FSMC.
SECTION II
Coordination and Concurrence
The civilian personnel office will forward one copy of AF Form 683 with all attachments to bio-
environmental engineers, safety officers, and local union officials for technical review,
investigation, opinion, and recommendation. The safety and bio-environmental technical
representatives will provide a written assessment/recommendation to the civilian personnel
office based on their areas of expertise. The civilian personnel officer will consider the technical
review recommendations and make final approval/disapproval determination.
SECTION III
Final Disposition
The civilian personnel section will electronically forward a copy of each approved situation to
bio-environmental engineering, safety, finance, the local union, recommending official and
immediate supervisor. The civilian personnel representative will meet with the requesting
supervisor to obtain supervisor’s signature on the original AF Form 683, acknowledging receipt
of the document. The original signature AF Form 683 is retained by 355 FSS/FSMC. The
supervisor will apprise the employee(s) concerned and furnish them a copy. If differential pay
request is disapproved, the civilian personnel section will forward one copy to bio-environmental
engineering, safety, recommending official, immediate supervisor and employee(s) concerned
with explanatory comments and informing employees of their grievance rights under the
negotiated agreement.
