BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              DAVIS-MONTHAN AIR FORCE BASE
DAVIS-MONTHAN AIR FORCE BASE                                      INSTRUCTION 48-104

                                                                                 27 APRIL 2011

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                      ANIMAL DISEASE PREVENTION AND
                                                                           CONTROL

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 355 AMDS/SGPV                                                    Certified by: 355 MDG/CC
                                                                          (Col Gordon C. Peters)
                                                                                        Pages: 12


This instruction establishes policies, responsibilities, and procedures for the possession and
control of animals, and for the protection of the health and safety of personnel and animals being
kept on Davis-Monthan AFB (DMAFB). It implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 48-
1, Aerospace Medicine. This instruction applies to all owners of any animals brought onto or
maintained within the confines of DMAFB. Violations of this regulation are punishable under
Article 92 of the Uniformed Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). Ensure that all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
ttps://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Contact supporting records managers as
required. Send comments and suggested improvements on AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication, through 355 MDG/CSS, 4175 S. Alamo Ave., Davis-Monthan AFB, AZ
85707.
 2                                         DAVISMONTHANAFBI48-104 27 APRIL 2011



                                         Chapter 1

                                         POLICY

1.1. The maintenance of household pets by individuals or families residing on DMAFB is a
privilege contingent upon compliance with the requirements and conditions prescribed in this
instruction. The right of personnel on DMAFB to protect themselves and their property from
nuisance or menace from animals has precedence over the privilege of pet ownership.
1.2. Certain preventive measures are necessary in order to reduce the incidence of disease
among domestic animals and to minimize the exposure of man to zoonotic diseases. Recognized
effective measures include registration, certain restrictions on ownership and maintenance,
administration of appropriate immunizations, and performance of specific diagnostic tests and
treatment for communicable disease conditions.
DAVISMONTHANAFBI48-104 27 APRIL 2011                                                           3


                                           Chapter 2

                                    RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. It is the responsibility of every organizational commander on DMAFB to ensure personnel
under their command are in compliance with this instruction.
2.2. All companion animal owners will be responsible for obtaining required immunizations
prescribed by this instruction. They will obtain any treatment necessary to keep their companion
animal from becoming a health hazard to the military community.
2.3. The veterinary treatment facility (VTF) will hold outpatient clinics to provide immunization
and treatment of diseases communicable to humans. Veterinary Services will provide
prevention, identification, and treatment of zoonotic disease conditions in companion animals on
DMAFB. The VTF will maintain base registration records of companion animals being
maintained on base property.
2.3.1. The VTF is a functional element of the Army Veterinary Corps and Army Medical
Department, and will enforce current Veterinary Command policy and guidance in its operation.
Furthermore, appropriate Air Force policy and procedure—both appropriated and non-
appropriated—will be followed as directed.
2.3.2. Current VTF Standard Operating Procedures will be followed in the operation of the VTF.
 4                                           DAVISMONTHANAFBI48-104 27 APRIL 2011


                                           Chapter 3

                 IMMUNIZATION AND REGISTRATION OF ANIMALS

3.1. The Veterinary Corps Officer, as provided for in Air Force Joint Instruction (AFJI) 48-131,
Army Regulation (AR) 40-905, and Secretary of Navy Instruction (SECNAVINST) 6401. 1A,
Veterinary Health Services, (AFJI 48-131/AR 40-905/SECNAVINST 6401.1A) and will
implement a comprehensive Rabies Control Program to prevent the spread of rabies and other
zoonotic diseases between animals and from animal to man. Costs of veterinary services
provided for companion animals will be borne by the sponsor.
3.2. Immunizations required for dogs.
3.2.1. All dogs over eight weeks of age shall have been vaccinated within the last 12 months
against the following: canine distemper, infectious canine hepatitis, parainfluenza, canine parvo
virus, and canine corona virus unless the attending veterinarian determines these vaccines are not
warranted in a specific patient or circumstance.
3.2.2. Rabies immunizations are required for all dogs 14 weeks and older. The first rabies
vaccination a dog receives needs to be boostered in 12 months. Every subsequent rabies
vaccination is good for one to three years (depending on the type of vaccine used).
3.3. Immunizations required for cats.
3.3.1. All cats over eight weeks of age shall have been vaccinated within the last 12 months
against the following: feline panleukopenia, feline rhinotracheitis, feline calicivirus, and
chlamydia psittaci unless the attending veterinarian determines these vaccines are not warranted
in a specific patient or circumstance.
3.3.2. Rabies immunizations are required for all cats 14 weeks and older. The first rabies
vaccination a cat receives needs to be boostered in 12 months. Every subsequent rabies
vaccination is good for one to three years (depending on the type of vaccine used).
3.4. Immunizations required for ferrets.
3.4.1. Rabies immunizations are required for all ferrets 14 weeks and older. There are a limited
number of rabies vaccinations approved for use in ferrets. All rabies vaccinations given in
ferrets are licensed for only one year, and must be boostered every 12 months.
3.5. Registration of companion animals maintained on base.
3.5.1. All companion animal owners will register their animals at the VTF within ten (10)
working days of the date they are assigned Soaring Heights Community on Davis-Monthan.
3.5.2. Registration of newly acquired animals will follow these same guidelines.
3.5.3. In the event an animal registered at the VTF is transferred from the original owner to
another owner, and remains on DMAFB, the new owner must register the animal within ten (10)
working days of acquisition.
3.5.4. Owners will notify the VTF when their pets are removed from the base (either through
change of ownership, death of the animal, etc.).
DAVISMONTHANAFBI48-104 27 APRIL 2011                                                              5


3.5.5. Proof of current immunizations, defined in this regulation, must be provided before
companion animals can be registered with the VTF.
3.5.6. Registration of companion animals will expire when one or more of the required
immunizations expire, and will not be renewed until immunizations are current.
3.6. Required immunization and registration of equines.
3.6.1. All equines stabled at Davis-Monthan Saddle Club will be currently immunized against
the following:
       3.6.1.1. Eastern and Western equine encephalomyelitis (EEE and WEE)
       3.6.1.2. Equine influenza,
       3.6.1.3. Rhinopneumonitis,
       3.6.1.4. Rabies,
       3.6.1.5. Tetanus
       3.6.1.6. West Virus.
       3.6.1.7. All vaccinations must be current within the previous 12 months.
3.6.2. A negative Coggins Equine Infectious Anemia (EIA) test is required before six months of
age, or before entry into the stables quarantine location. Otherwise, a negative Coggins is only
required if the equine(s) is taken out for any show/event requiring this, or if traveling outside of
the state of .
3.6.3. All equines stabled at Davis-Monthan Saddle Club must be treated for intestinal parasites
at a minimum of every three months (quarterly).
3.6.4. All equines must be cleared through the Saddle Club before entering onto DMAFB
property. This will ensure all safety measures—immunizations, dewormers, and negative
Coggins test—are up to date.
3.6.5. A health certificate signed by a licensed veterinarian from the state of origin must be
provided before equines enter onto DMAFB.
3.6.6. All equines that meet the above requirements will be held in a specified quarantine pen for
a minimum of ten (10) days before being released into the general herd. This is to assure the
horse is not harboring any infectious diseases. The Veterinary Corps Officer (VCO) or a
licensed veterinarian must certify the health of the animal at the end of the quarantine period
before it can be released.
3.7. The installation commander may refuse base registration for any companion animal or
equine and order the animal to be removed from base property at any time. Reasons for removal
may include (but not limited to): The animal is declared a health hazard, the animal is declared
dangerous or a nuisance, the animal is not up to date on its vaccinations, or the animal is not
properly cared for by the owner. The base veterinarian and the commander of security forces
have the authority to declare an animal dangerous or a nuisance.
 6                                            DAVISMONTHANAFBI48-104 27 APRIL 2011


                                            Chapter 4

                                   CONTROL OF ANIMALS


4.1. Owners are required to control their animals at all times to prevent them from being a
nuisance or menace to other persons, animals, or property.
4.2. All dogs must be kept on a leash when outdoors. Animals kept in a fenced area from which
they cannot escape do not need to be kept on a leash. “Voice control” is not considered an
adequate form of restraint.
4.3. All companion animal feces must be cleaned up immediately when the animal defecates
outside of the owner’s assigned quarters/yard area. Pet owners living in Soaring Heights
Community are required to clean up their animal’s waste from their yard daily to prevent
unsanitary conditions. Pets are not permitted to excrete on playgrounds or lawns of other
occupants.
4.4. Pets must be housed indoors or secured in outside quarters within a fenced area. Having a
companion animal tied in an unfenced yard is not allowed.
4.4.1. Animals will not be left unattended in a vehicle or other enclosed space where the
temperature is either so high or low or the ventilation is so inadequate as to endanger the animal's
life or health. Security Forces are authorized to use whatever force is reasonable and necessary
to remove any animal from a vehicle or other enclosure.
4.5. Proper shelter (dog house) and protection from the weather must be afforded to pets kept
outside. The shelter must:
4.5.1. Be removable and provide minimal shelter space from the elements.
4.5.2. Provide protection from the sun, rain, snow, wind and cold, and from any weather
conditions that may occur.
4.5.3. Be large enough to allow the animal to enter, stand, turn around, and lie down in a natural
manner.
4.5.4. The shelter must be of a quality and design to afford a healthy and humane environment
for the animals it is intended to house.
4.5.5. Final determination as to the adequacy of the shelter provided will be made by the base
veterinary services in coordination with security forces. Failure to maintain adequate shelter for
pets will result in a citation and possible impoundment of the animal(s).
4.6. Compliance with all sanitary regulations and the necessary maintenance of the area where
the animal is kept is mandatory and the direct responsibility of the owner. Personnel owning
animals on this installation are responsible for all damages to government property caused by
their pets.
4.7. Companion animals are not allowed in government office buildings, the commissary, Base
Exchange facilities, base clubs, swimming pools, the hospital, or in dormitories. Guide dogs for
the blind and deaf and Military Working Dogs are exempt from these restrictions.
DAVISMONTHANAFBI48-104 27 APRIL 2011                                                          7


4.8. Pet owners must abide by the quarantine procedures required by AFJI 48-131/AR 40-
905/SECNAVINST 6401. 1A and directives by Veterinary Services and Public Health in the
event of animal bite incidents and/or disease outbreak on DMAFB.
4.9. Disposal of deceased pets is the responsibility of the owner. The VTF holds a contract with
an animal cremation service which may be utilized for a nominal fee.
4.9.1. Any animal dying of suspicious or unexplained causes, or suspected of harboring a
zoonotic disease, may be subject to a necropsy at the VTF.
 8                                           DAVISMONTHANAFBI48-104 27 APRIL 2011


                                           Chapter 5

                   DISEASE CONTROL AND ANIMAL LIMITATIONS

5.1. Pet owners will comply with federal, state, and county laws relating to the humane
treatment of animals.
5.1.1. Any suspected cases of animal abuse or neglect should be reported to the installation
Security Forces immediately.
5.1.2. Veterinary Services will investigate matters of animal abuse or neglect on the
recommendation of the installation commander or representative thereof.
5.2. Authorized animals are limited to most breeds of dogs (canines), cats (felines), guinea pigs,
domestic rabbits, white mice and white rats (from the USA), and caged birds or fish in bowls or
aquariums. No more than 2 pets per household (besides those in cages or aquariums), with
exception of puppies and kittens up to 8 weeks of age. See Soaring Heights Guide (2007)
section 4 (Pets), 4.2 (Authorized Pets) for further guidance.
5.3. Companion animals (to include cats) will not be allowed to run loose on base at any
time. When outside of the owner’s home, the companion animal must be either on a leash or
confined in a secure, fenced yard.
5.3.1. Any animal found at-large will be picked up and impounded by either Security Forces or
Pima County Rabies Animal Control (PCAC). Retrieval of impounded animals is the owner’s
responsibility. Fees assessed (if any) will be the sole responsibility of the owner.
5.3.2. An owner who has their animal picked up three or more times while on DMAFB will lose
their privilege of owning or otherwise keeping animals as pets on DMAFB. Soaring Heights will
enforce this policy.
5.4. Companion animals left unattended in a secured, fenced rear yard must be provided ample
supply of fresh water and a constant shaded area for protection from the sun.
5.5. Companion animals left unattended in secured fenced yards must not be allowed to become
a nuisance due to excessive barking.
5.6. Animals that have bitten humans will be quarantined in accordance with state and county
laws. Any companion animal involved in more than one bite may be declared a nuisance. All
animal bites must be reported to Security Forces at 228-3200 and Soaring Heights at 745-5024.
The Veterinary Clinic should also review the incident to determine whether the animal should be
quarantined.
5.6.1. The installation commander has the authority to remove any animal from DMAFB at
his/her discretion at any time.
5.7. Sick animals will be treated at the owner’s expense. Zoonoses will be reported to Public
Health or the Veterinary Treatment Facility.
5.8. Stray animals must be reported to the Pima County Animal Control Office and/or to
Security Forces. A pre-determined fee may be assessed to the owner of any pet picked up on
base by DMAFB Security Forces or Pima County Animal Control.
DAVISMONTHANAFBI48-104 27 APRIL 2011                                                          9


5.9. Security Forces will be the office of primary responsibility (OPR) for stray animal control
on DMAFB. Contact Pima County Animal Control to pick up stray or lost animals. Stray
animals will be kept for a period not to exceed 24 hours, and then will be turned over to the
Humane Society or to a local rescue program if available (i.e. Save a Feline from Euthanasia
(S.A.F.E.))
 10                                             DAVISMONTHANAFBI48-104 27 APRIL 2011


                                              Chapter 6

                                         RESTRICTIONS

6.1. Non-domestic species of animals will not be maintained in the Soaring Heights
Community. Unauthorized animals include any animal that is banned by state and federal laws.
In addition, the following animals are unauthorized: wild, exotic, or undomesticated animals
(i.e. forest/jungle beasts, potbellied pigs or other wildlife as well as to include, but not limited to:
skunks, wolves or wolf-hybrids, raccoons, poisonous snakes, insects, etc). See Soaring Heights
Guide (2007) for more information (Section 4, paragraph 4.2.)
6.2. Domestic species of animals, generally used for food production, will not be maintained in
the Soaring Heights Community. These include chickens, sheep, goats, etc.
6.3. Dangerous animals are prohibited in the Soaring Heights Community at DMAFB (i. e.
poisonous reptiles, any Pit Bull breeds and Rottweilers). An animal does not have to cause
injury to be declared dangerous.
6.4. Any animal used for breeding purposes is prohibited from base housing at DMAFB.



Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                                ROBERT W. SINGLETON, Colonel, USAF
                                                Vice Commander, 355th Fighter Wing
DAVISMONTHANAFBI48-104 27 APRIL 2011                                                     11


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program, 3 October 2005
AFJI 48-131, Veterinary Health Services, 16 August 1994
AR 40-905, Veterinary Health Services, 29 August 2006
SECNAVIST 6401.1A, Veterinary Health Services, 16 August 1994
Title 9, United States Code of Federal Regulations, Animal and Animal Products
Title 40, Sec 291, United States Code of Federal Regulations, Admission of Guide Dogs
Accompanied by Blind Masters
2007 Compendium of Animal Rabies Prevention and Control, National Association of State
Public Health Veterinarians
2007 Soaring Heights Community Guide, Davis-Monthan AFB Resident Guide

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFJI—Air Force Joint Instruction
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AR—Army Regulation
DMAFB—Davis-Monthan AFB
EEE—Eastern Equine Encephalomyelitis
EIA—Equine Infectious Anemia
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PCAC—Pima County Rabies Animal Control
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SECNAVINST—Secretary of the Navy Instruction
UCMJ—Uniformed Code of Military Justice
VCO—Veterinary Corps Officer
VTF—Veterinary Treatment Facility
WEE—Western Equine Encephalomyelitis
 12                                         DAVISMONTHANAFBI48-104 27 APRIL 2011




Terms
Companion Animal— Any privately owned animal (POA) maintained on Davis-Monthan AFB.
Control of Animal— Restraint practices applied to animals to prevent them from becoming a
nuisance.
Dangerous Animal— Any animal involved in an attack on a person or another animal on this
installation. Any animal with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack, cause
injury, or to otherwise threaten the safety of a human being or domestic animal. Any animal
trained, tormented, badgered, baited, or used for the purpose of causing or encouraging said
animal to attack human beings or domestic animals.
Feral— A domesticated animal that does not have an owner, and that has returned partly or
wholly to its wild instincts.
Menace— An animal’s behavior or condition which threatens to cause harm to a person’s health
or body.
Nuisance— An animal that damages private or public property or annoys individuals or the
community by actions such as prolonged barking, digging in lawns, getting into trash containers,
etc.
Veterinary Treatment Facility (VTF)— Also referred to as the VTF or Veterinary Services;
the Army Veterinary Services located on Davis-Monthan AFB that is responsible for all animal
health-related matters on the installation.
Veterinary Corps Officer (VCO)— A licensed veterinarian serving as the Army Veterinary
Corps Officer on Davis-Monthan AFB.
Zoonosis— An infection or infectious disease transmissible under natural conditions from
animal to man.
