BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             DAVIS-MONTHAN AFB INSTRUCTION 90-203
DAVIS-MONTHAN AIR FORCE BASE                                                               7 APRIL 2008

                                                                                    Special Management

                                                              SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND
                                                                          RESPONSE PROGRAM



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available for downloading on the Davis Monthan AFB
                       Publications website via the AF Portal.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 355 FW/CVK                                                                Certified by: 355 FW/CV
                                                                             (Colonel Bruce McClintock)
                                                                                               Pages: 16

The purpose of this instruction is to provide procedures that will supplement current Department of the
Air Force Policies and Procedures For the Prevention of and Response to Sexual Assault, dated 8 Jun 05,
specific to Davis-Monthan Air Force Base (DMAFB). For further instruction and guidance, see Depart-
ment of Defense Directive 6495.01, Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Program; and
Department of Defense Instruction 6495.02, Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Program Proce-
dures. This instruction provides interim policies and procedures for the prevention of and response to sex-
ual assault and applies to all units on DMAFB. This instruction establishes the mission, organization and
responsibility for the DMAFB SAPR Program and provides response procedures for intervention to
reported incidents of sexual assault. Maintain records created as a result of prescribed processes IAW
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of them IAW the AF Records Disposition Sched-
ule (RDS) at https://AFRIMS.amc.af.mil. Contact supporting records managers as required.
The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in
this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. This publication does not apply to the Air
Force Reserve Command or Air National Guard units and members unless they are on active-duty train-
ing, inactive duty training, or Federal (Title 10) status. Send comments and suggested improvements
using AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through 355 FW/CVK, 5275 E. Granite
St., Suite 2090, Davis-Monthan AFB, AZ 85707.


1. Program Information.
   1.1. Program Objective. The objective of the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Pro-
   gram is to eliminate sexual assault incidents and reinforce an environment where behavior that facili-
   tates sexual assault and rape is not tolerated.
       1.1.1. Program goals focus on the reduction of “at risk” behavior associated with sexual assault
       crimes and rape, and establishing a climate of prevention that demands higher standards and pro-
2                                                       DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-203 7 APRIL 2008


       fessionalism associated with the Air Force wingman culture. The SAPR Program will assist com-
       manders in facilitating prevention by reinforcing the Air Force policy of “zero tolerance” for
       sexual assault and monitoring the climate that fosters sexual assault on the installation.
       1.1.2. The program goals will be accomplished through education, training, briefings, commander
       calls, by request discussions, off-site or community training, and immediate intervention. Educa-
       tional and/or briefing materials are tailored specifically for DMAFB and the local area as well.

2. Restricted Reporting and Unrestricted Reporting of Sexual Assault Crimes.
    2.1. Restricted Reporting. The Restricted Reporting option gives an individual access to medical
    care, counseling, and a victim advocate but does not initiate the investigate process. Restricted report-
    ing is available only to military personnel of the Armed Forces and the Coast Guard when attached to
    Department of Defense. Military personnel include members on active duty and members of the
    Reserve and National Guard performing Federal duty on active-duty training or inactive duty training,
    and members of the National Guard in Federal (Title 10) status.
       2.1.1. Active duty military members who desire restricted reporting under this policy must report
       the assault to the SARC or a on-base healthcare provider.
       2.1.2. On-base Healthcare Providers (HCP). On-base HCPs may take restricted information
       from a victim who chooses to disclose confidentially without having to report to law enforcement
       or command. The on-base HCP must notify the SARC of the disclosure and provide the disclosed
       information. This may include identifying or personal information.
       2.1.3. The on-base HCP must refer the victim to appropriate helping agencies that meet the vic-
       tim’s needs.
    2.2. Unrestricted reporting. Unrestricted reporting is made when any report of a sexual assault is
    made through the victim’s chain of command, law enforcement officials or through the Air Force
    Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI). An unrestricted report may also come through the SARC or
    an on-base HCP where the individual does not elect restricted reporting.
       2.2.1. Independent or third-party disclosure. Independent reporting occurs when a sexual
       assault is disclosed to a commander from a source independent of the restricted reporting avenues
       or to law enforcement from other sources. The commander must report the matter to the AFOSI,
       and AFOSI remains authorized to initiate its own independent investigation of the reported matter.
       2.2.2. Reporting Sexual Assault. Any Air Force military member or civilian employee who
       receives a report of a sexual assault incident from a subordinate in their supervisory chain, shall
       report the matter to AFOSI immediately. The only exceptions are those personnel authorized to
       receive confidential communications by operation of law, regulation, or policy. If a member or
       civilian employee becomes aware of a sexual assault incident and are not in the victim’s supervi-
       sory chain, they are strongly encouraged to report the incident.
    2.3. Response to a Report of Sexual Assault. In unrestricted cases, anyone responding to an inci-
    dent of sexual assault will immediately collaborate with the first responders.
       2.3.1. First Responders. First responders minimally include: Security Forces (SF), AFOSI, and
       the SARC. They may also include the installation Chaplain (HC) or Judge Advocate (JA).
DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-203 7 APRIL 2008                                                                       3


       2.3.2. Case Management. A multi-disciplinary case management board (CMB), chaired by the
       SARC, will meet monthly to review unrestricted cases, improve reporting procedures, track statis-
       tical trends and patterns, facilitate monthly victim updates, discuss process improvement, and to
       ensure system accountability and victim access to quality services. The meeting will be docu-
       mented with minutes.
       2.3.3. The CMB will review assault trends for DMAFB on a quarterly basis including consider-
       ation of the environmental information provided to command under restricted reporting. This will
       include comparison between the base as well as other Air Combat Command bases of similar size
       and previous quarterly trends. The CMB will provide a confidential report to the vice commander.
       2.3.4. The group membership includes the AFOSI, HC, JA, SARC, SF, Victim Advocate (VA),
       Equal Opportunity (EO) (as needed), Director of Base Medical Services (SG)/Mental Health
       Clinic (MHC) representative, Family Advocacy Officer (FAO), Family Advocacy Treatment
       Manager (FATM), Family Advocacy Outreach Manager (FAOM), Victim Witness Assistance Pro-
       gram (VWAP) Manager, and each reporting victim’s commander. Under restricted reporting, the
       group membership is limited to the SARC, assigned VAs and SG representative (per Air Force
       polices and procedures for the SAPR).

3. Responsibilities.
   3.1. 355th Fighter Wing Commander (355 FW/CC). The 355 FW/CC ensures the implementation
   of the SAPR Program for all military personnel, their family members and government civilian
   employees.
   3.2. 355th Fighter Wing Vice Commander (355 FW/CV).
       3.2.1. Ensures the Air Force sexual assault prevention policy becomes an integral part of
       day-to-day personnel management.
       3.2.2. Decides the best use of resources for safe on-base living environment.
   3.3. Subordinate Unit and Tenant Unit Commanders.
       3.3.1. Ensure the physical safety and emotional security of the victim.
       3.3.2. Determine if the victim requires emergency medical care.
       3.3.3. Notify the SARC when there has been an allegation of sexual assault involving a military
       member, dependent or Department of Defense (DoD) civilian.
       3.3.4. Notify AFOSI when there has been an allegation of sexual assault involving a military
       member, dependent or DoD civilian.
       3.3.5. Determine the need for protective actions (e.g., no contact orders, temporary reassignment
       to another unit, etc.).
       3.3.6. Encourage members to be appropriately supportive of one another within the squadron to
       include both the victim and alleged offender.
       3.3.7. In cases where the victim and alleged offender are assigned to the same squadron or work
       center, consider assigning either to another duty assignment until the case is legally settled and/or
       the victim is considered out of danger.
4                                                      DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-203 7 APRIL 2008


       3.3.8. Consult with JA before taking any administrative or disciplinary action against the victim
       for his/her collateral misconduct.
       3.3.9. Ensure all personnel receive annual education and training in sexual assault as offered
       through the SAPR Program.
       3.3.10. Consider unit refresher training by the SARC if a sexual assault has affected a unit mem-
       ber.
       3.3.11. Discourage members from participating in gossip or grapevine speculation about the case
       or investigation.
       3.3.12. Ensure the victim receives monthly reports on the progress of the case from AFOSI and
       JA until there is a final disposition.
       3.3.13. Refer to Attachment 2, Commander Sexual Assault Response Checklist for Unrestricted
       Reports of Sexual Assault, for specific actions necessary in response to an unrestricted report.
    3.4. 355th Fighter Wing Command Post (355 FW/CP).
       3.4.1. Notifies the SARC upon notification of a sexual assault.
       3.4.2. Requests information from command and/or the SARC in order to complete an Operations
       Report.
    3.5. 355th Fighter Wing Judge Advocate (355 FW/JA).
       3.5.1. Notifies the SARC and AFOSI of any sexual assault reports received through official chan-
       nels.
       3.5.2. Ensures the victim is aware of his/her options concerning their participation in the investi-
       gation and prosecution.
       3.5.3. Ensures the victim is informed of his or her rights through the VWAP and receives the
       appropriate forms. The VWAP Manager will assign a liaison if the victim testifies and ensures the
       victim receives monthly reports on the progress of the case until there is a final disposition.
    3.6. Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI).
       3.6.1. AFOSI has criminal investigative jurisdiction over military members, regardless of the
       location of the offense. AFOSI must be notified of all felony level crimes (barring restricted
       reports of sexual assault) that may involve Air Force members. Therefore, if a military member is
       the suspect or victim of a sexual assault, AFOSI must be notified if the unrestricted reporting
       option has been elected.
       3.6.2. AFOSI Responsibilities.
           3.6.2.1. Notifies the SARC when there has been an allegation of sexual assault involving mil-
           itary members, dependents or DoD civilians.
           3.6.2.2. Investigates reported allegations of sexual assault and rape.
           3.6.2.3. Ensures the victim agrees to be interviewed by AFOSI without the assistance of a VA.
           3.6.2.4. Recognizes the victim may initially refuse to be interviewed by the AFOSI when an
           independent report has been initiated and the victim has elected the restricted reporting option.
DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-203 7 APRIL 2008                                                                     5


        3.6.2.5. Provides the victim with information on victim’s rights.
        3.6.2.6. Requests the Sexual Assault Forensic Examination (SAFE) through the SARC if the
        report of sexual assault is unrestricted.
        3.6.2.7. Responsible for evidence handling and safe keeping of the SAFE kit for a period of
        one year from when it is received by the SARC.
        3.6.2.8. Informs the 355 FW/CC of all pertinent information in a timely manner. “Immediate”
        notification may not be warranted or desired by 355 FW/CC in all cases.
        3.6.2.9. Notifies the victim’s and alleged offender’s squadron/unit commanders of the alleged
        sexual assault.
        3.6.2.10. AFOSI will notify the SARC thirty days prior to the expiration of the one year stor-
        age period for evidence. If the victim does not wish the return of his or her personal property,
        the evidence and the property will be destroyed in accordance with Department of Defense
        Instruction 6495.02, Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Program Procedures.
  3.7. 355th Security Forces Squadron (355 SFS).
     3.7.1. Responds to reports of sexual assault and rape occurring under their jurisdiction.
     3.7.2. Notifies AFOSI when there has been an allegation(s) of sexual assault involving a military
     member, dependent or DoD civilian.
     3.7.3. Responds when AFOSI determines Security Forces Office of Investigations is the appropri-
     ate law enforcement agency to investigate an allegation of sexual assault involving a military
     member, dependent or DoD civilian.
     3.7.4. Notifies the SARC when there has been an allegation of sexual assault involving a military
     member, dependent or DoD civilian.
     3.7.5. Secures the crime scene.
     3.7.6. Collects only the necessary information (victim’s identity, location and time of the incident,
     name and/or description of the offender) but does not pressure the victim for responses.
     3.7.7. Recognizes the victim may refuse to be interviewed by SF when an independent report has
     been initiated and the victim has elected the restricted reporting option.
     3.7.8. Advises the victim not to destroy possible evidence by bathing, douching, changing
     clothes, brushing teeth, using mouthwash, brushing hair, eating, drinking, or cleaning-up in any
     way.
     3.7.9. Provides support and reassurance until the SARC and/or VA arrives.
     3.7.10. Explains law enforcement procedures that will occur within the next 24 hours to the vic-
     tim so that he/she is aware of and can anticipate future actions/procedures.
     3.7.11. Provides the victim with information on victim’s rights.
     3.7.12. Arranges for an ambulance to transport the victim to the nearest medical treatment facility.
     The SAFE may be coordinated through the SARC if the victim wishes.
     3.7.13. Advises/assists the victim on safety precautions in the event that the alleged offender
     poses a continuing threat.
6                                                      DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-203 7 APRIL 2008


       3.7.14. Completes first responder training for security forces personnel involved in prevention of
       and response to sexual assault.
       3.7.15. Ensures all 355 SFS personnel receive annual training in sensitivity to sexual assault vic-
       tims and the dynamics of sexual assault as offered through the SAPR Program.
       3.7.16. Provides the SARC with statistical data reflecting all unrestricted reports of sexual assault
       allegations reported to 355 SFS.
    3.8. 355th Medical Group (355 MDG).
       3.8.1. Notifies and refers alleged sexual assault victims to the SARC to explain restricted and
       unrestricted reporting options.
       3.8.2. Arranges for transportation to the Emergency Department (ED) at the nearest healthcare
       facility if the victim needs immediate medical treatment. 355 MDG personnel will assist the vic-
       tim to obtain safe travel to a local hospital when the victim has no need for emergency transporta-
       tion. 355 MDG personnel will contact the SARC.
       3.8.3. Ensures the victim is reasonably protected from the accused offender(s) within the confines
       of the 355 MDG.
       3.8.4. Determines the need for behavioral health services.
       3.8.5. Eliminates unnecessary dissemination of information about the sexual assault to protect the
       victim’s confidentiality.
       3.8.6. Provides care to victims requiring or requesting behavioral health services. When trauma
       counseling and therapy exceed the resource capability of the 355 MDG, the MHC will refer vic-
       tims to community resources, engaging the SARC as needed.
    3.9. 355th Fighter Wing Chaplain (355 FW/HC).
       3.9.1. Chaplains. The victim may also report the assault to a chaplain. A report to a chaplain is
       not a restricted report under this policy but is a communication that may be protected under the
       Military Rules of Evidence (MRE) or applicable statutes and regulations. A report of sexual
       assault to a chaplain is not considered a restricted report until it has been disclosed to the SARC.
       3.9.2. Chaplain Responsibilities.
          3.9.2.1. Provide emotional and spiritual support to the victim and family as requested.
          3.9.2.2. Encourage the victim to seek appropriate support and advocacy through the SARC. If
          the victim concurs, refer the victim to the SARC.
          3.9.2.3. Encourage the victim to seek medical attention regardless of whether the victim
          requires emergency or non-emergency care.
          3.9.2.4. Ensure training in basic and advanced courses for chaplains, addresses sexual assault
          awareness and prevention and provides guidance concerning a chaplain’s role in responding to
          cases of sexual assault.
    3.10. Victim Advocates (VA).
       3.10.1. VAs are volunteers who possess the emotional maturity and experience to assist in sensi-
       tive situations. Personnel assigned to the medical treatment facility (MTF), JA, SF, EO, and HC
DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-203 7 APRIL 2008                                                                      7


     are not eligible to act as VAs due to a potential conflict of interest. VAs who are the subject of
     criminal or administrative investigations or who violate SAPR policies will be suspended as a VA
     until a review can be completed. The SARC will conduct the review and determine whether the
     VA may maintain their certification.
     3.10.2. VA Responsibilities.
        3.10.2.1. Undergo a background check to ensure the VA has not been convicted of any crimes
        relating to rape, child abuse, sexual assault, sexual violence, domestic assault, domestic vio-
        lence, or other forms of assault.
        3.10.2.2. Complete 40 hours of standard Air Force VA training. In addition, VA applicants
        must receive at least 20 hours of mentoring from the SARC. All VA applicants will undergo a
        competency examination to assess their skill level prior to certification as a VA. The compe-
        tency examination will consist of a role play between the VA applicant and a simulated victim.
        3.10.2.3. VAs must attend monthly in-service training sessions to maintain yearly certifica-
        tion. If a VA misses more than two monthly in-service trainings, the SARC may decertify the
        individual as a VA. The SARC may make exceptions for military who cannot attend as a result
        of deployments or other reasonable circumstances.
        3.10.2.4. Remain active in the program. Briefing is required of all advocates; advocates must
        take a portion of the briefing schedule and maintain the briefing calendar.
        3.10.2.5. Complete reports that update the SARC on victim care.
        3.10.2.6. Complete monthly in-kind reports.
        3.10.2.7. Be prepared to respond to victims of sexual assault 24 hours a day, 7 days a week
        when notified by the SARC. The on-call VA will carry the on-call backpack and the 24-hour
        cellular phone. VAs are responsible for on-call duty assignments over weekends and holidays.
        3.10.2.8. Receive restricted reports of sexual assault from a designated victim only after they
        have been appointed by the SARC to act as the VA for that individual. The VA will obtain the
        victim’s signature on the Victim’s Preference Statement, and explain restricted reporting. The
        VA is not required to report an initial contact prior to appointment as a VA for a particular per-
        son to law enforcement officials.
        3.10.2.9. Provide assistance to the victim by offering to and/or helping to secure basic needs
        (e.g., supply items in the VAs back-pack, arrange transportation, contact family member/
        friend, etc., if requested by victim).
        3.10.2.10. Offer to accompany the victim to all interviews with investigative/legal staff in
        order to provide emotional support.
        3.10.2.11. Make follow-up telephone contact with the victim within 24 hours to provide emo-
        tional support and information as well as to determine if additional referral services are
        requested. In addition to making follow-up telephone contact, the VA should support the vic-
        tim in getting the referral for follow-up counseling if it has not already been made. If a referral
        has been made, the advocate should assist the victim in following through with contact and
        scheduling a follow-up counseling appointment.
  3.11. 355th Fighter Wing Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (355 FW/CVK).
8                                                  DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-203 7 APRIL 2008


    3.11.1. The SARC will follow established base policy, provide guidance, and designate responsi-
    bility for the implementation of the SAPR Program. The SARC shall coordinate, plan, develop,
    implement, and direct all administrative aspects of the program and establish installation-level
    program goals and procedures, excluding operational control over criminal investigations.
    3.11.2. SARC Responsibilities.
       3.11.2.1. Serves as the single point of contact for integrating and coordinating sexual assault
       victim care from an initial report of sexual assault, through disposition and resolution of issues
       related to the victim’s health and well-being.
       3.11.2.2. Responsible for ensuring a victim support system that provides 24 hour/7 days a
       week sexual assault response capability for all victims at DMAFB. The area of responsibility
       for the SARC is the 355 FW, 12th Air Force, the Cooperative Support Locations under Air
       Forces Southern (AFSOUTH), and all DMAFB tenant organizations.
       3.11.2.3. Maintains a pool of fully trained VAs. Ensures VAs are available for victims at all
       times.
       3.11.2.4. Recruits, screens, interviews, selects, trains, and supervises VAs with the training
       package supplied by the Department of the Air Force.
       3.11.2.5. Arranges guest speakers from JA, AFOSI, and SF, as well as lecturers from within
       the civilian community who are experts in the study of sexual assault.
       3.11.2.6. Ensures that VAs receive required training before being assigned to a victim. The
       SARC may delegate mentoring responsibility to the senior VA who has demonstrated the req-
       uisite knowledge to act as a mentor.
    3.11.3. On-call Responsibilities.
       3.11.3.1. Attempts to provide the victim with a suitable VA. The SARC will attempt to limit
       the number of victims assigned to one VA. Assignments will be commensurate with the skill
       level of the VA. The SARC will take into consideration victim preference and any other fac-
       tors that may contribute to coordinating successful interaction.
       3.11.3.2. Assigns VAs in groups of two. Each group will be on call one week a month from
       0800 on Monday of the week and ending at 0800 on Monday of the following week.
    3.11.4. SARC/VA Response to Report of Sexual Assault.
       3.11.4.1. Requires the victim to acknowledge in writing his or her understanding of restricted
       reporting, including the exceptions and limitations to the policy. The SARC will inform vic-
       tims of their freedom to choose between restricted and unrestricted forms of reporting. The
       SARC may delegate to the assigned VA the duty to speak with the victim and to inform them
       of the reporting rules and to assist them with the decision to report.
       3.11.4.2. The SARC will introduce the VA to the victim and ensure there is no immediate need
       for medical assistance and address safety concerns as well as make observations that will
       assist the VA with referrals to on-base and community resources.
       3.11.4.3. Notifies the AFOSI of all unrestricted sexual assault reports.
       3.11.4.4. Arranges for air evacuation or ground transportation, accompanies the victim to a
       civilian hospital for medical attention and requests (with the consent of the victim) a SAFE kit.
DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-203 7 APRIL 2008                                                                      9


        3.11.4.5. Ensures the victim’s squadron commander and first sergeant are briefed on victim
        care.
        3.11.4.6. Notifies 355 FW/CV within 24 hours of an incident using only generic information
        if under the rules of restricted reports.
        3.11.4.7. For unrestricted reports, notifies the JA-VWAP Manager, FAO, MHC, and HC.
     3.11.5. Sexual Assault Forensic Examination (SAFE). SAFE in the local Tucson, Arizona area
     will be completed either at the Tucson Medical Center or the Northwest Medical Center facility as
     recommended by the Southern Arizona Center Against Sexual Assault (SACASA). The SAFE
     will be completed by a contracted sexual assault nurse examiner or by any other facility that has
     been asked to coordinate the completion of the examination. The DMAFB SARC will authorize
     the SAFE and remain available to assist with the coordination and facilitation of the SAFE. The
     SAFE kit will be provided by the Arizona Department of Public Safety and brought to the hospital
     by the SARC.
     3.11.6. Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) Collection Procedures.
        3.11.6.1. Collects, labels and identifies evidence from a SAFE and accompanying documenta-
        tion, personal effects and clothing, in accordance with SANE procedures that can be later
        tested for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and other substances biological or otherwise that can
        assist law enforcement in establishing a case against the alleged perpetrator.
        3.11.6.2. For active duty military cases, identifies the outer evidence bag with an “R” for
        restricted and “UNR” for unrestricted, the year (i.e. 2008), the month of the report such as 01,
        the particular case number for the year such as 01, and the last four digits of the victim’s social
        security number.
        3.11.6.3. Attaches the information securely to the bag and on the inside of the kit.
        3.11.6.4. Hands the bag to the SARC who will annotate the date and time of collection of evi-
        dence.
     3.11.7. SARC Collection Procedures.
        3.11.7.1. Receives completed SAFE kits for restricted reports from the SANE.
        3.11.7.2. Clearly identifies who took possession of the evidence and the date and time the evi-
        dence was transferred.
        3.11.7.3. Enters the information into the log book and specifically associates the victim with
        the evidence.
        3.11.7.4. Maintains the chain of custody for restricted reports of sexual assault by immedi-
        ately delivering the SAFE kit to AFOSI following the examination.
        3.11.7.5. Contacts the on-call duty AFOSI agent and requests they meet as soon as possible if
        the evidence is collected in the local area. The SARC will travel from the designated collection
        site or hospital to DMAFB and deliver the evidence to the AFOSI evidence custodian com-
        pleting the chain of custody until it (the evidence) is either destroyed or tested.
        3.11.7.6. Notifies the AFOSI if a victim changes from restricted to unrestricted reporting.
10                                                  DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-203 7 APRIL 2008


        3.11.7.7. Notifies the victim when the one-year storage period is about to expire in a restricted
        case.
     3.11.8. SARC Responsibilities for Case Planning and Management.
        3.11.8.1. Develops a case management plan to assist the VA with appropriate referral
        resources and to aid the victim in recovery.
        3.11.8.2. Refers the victim to the MHC. The SARC will facilitate the civilian referral if the
        victim wishes to see or prefers an off-base provider.
        3.11.8.3. Coordinates with appropriate agencies through the CMB to ensure the victim’s well-
        being is maintained after the case is closed.
        3.11.8.4. Chairs monthly sexual assault CMB meetings. A summary report taken from the
        minutes of the meeting will be presented to the 355 FW/CV.
        3.11.8.5. Ensures continuity of care and case management for victims who undergo a perma-
        nent change of station. With consent, the SARC will transfer case records to the victim’s gain-
        ing base.
        3.11.8.6. Maintains records necessary to identify victims and track services provided.
     3.11.9. SARC Responsibilities and Sexual Assault Prevention.
        3.11.9.1. Implements and maintains an ongoing public awareness campaign designed to
        inform personnel of the availability of the victim assistance program and how victims may
        access the program (e.g., via MHC, medical and law enforcement agencies, community crisis
        intervention agencies, etc.).
        3.11.9.2. Develops, administers and analyzes survey responses to include on-line surveys
        (non-identifying), trend analysis, program performance measures for intervention and preven-
        tion, impact assessments and yearly program cost-benefit analysis. Establishes program per-
        formance measures and presents summary findings to the 355 FW/CV and quarterly SAPR
        meetings.
     3.11.10. SARC Responsibilities and Sexual Assault Response Training (SART).
        3.11.10.1. Provides sexual assault education and training using SAPR Program Headquarters
        training material and materials from other professional sources (DVD/videos, books, profes-
        sional journal articles, statistics, slides, etc.).
        3.11.10.2. Conducts testing before and after training that quantifies effectiveness of training.
        3.11.10.3. Trains first responders in victim communication, crisis intervention and trauma
        response.
        3.11.10.4. Provides periodic victim sensitivity training for supervisors.
        3.11.10.5. Provides Sexual Assault Prevention training to the following groups on DMAFB
        on a recurring annual basis and by request, as well as provides SAPR Program training to all
        installation personnel.
        3.11.10.6. Provides Sexual Assault Prevention training to other groups as requested.
        3.11.10.7. Maintains the SART database.
DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-203 7 APRIL 2008                                                     11


         3.11.10.8. Reports base training statistics quarterly to the 355 FW/CV.

4. Forms Adopted. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, and DD Form 2873,
Military Protection Order (MPO).



                                            RONALD K. LAUGHBAUM, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
12                                                 DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-203 7 APRIL 2008


                                         Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DODD 6495.01, Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Program, 6 October 2005
DODI 6495.02, Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Program Procedures, 23 June 2006
Department of the Air Force Policies and Procedures for the Prevention of and Response to Sexual
Assault, 14 June 2005

Abbreviations and Acronyms
355 FW/CC—355th Fighter Wing Commander
355 FW/CV—355th Fighter Wing Vice Commander
355 MDG—355th Medical Group
355 SFS—355 Security Forces Squadron
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFSOUTH—Air Forces Southern
CMB—Case Management Board
DMAFB—Davis-Monthan Air Force Base
DoD—Department of Defense
ED—Emergency Department
EO—Equal Opportunity
FAO—Family Advocacy Officer
FAOM—Family Advocacy Outreach Manager
FATM—Family Advocacy Treatment Manager
HC—Chaplain
HCP—Health Care Provider
JA—Judge Advocate
MHC—Mental Health Clinic
MPO—Military Protection Order
MRE—Military Rules of Evidence
MTF—Medical Treatment Facility
PRP—Personal Reliability Program
DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-203 7 APRIL 2008                                                                     13


SACASA—Southern Arizona Center Against Sexual Assault
SAFE—Sexual Assault Forensic Exam
SANE—Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner
SAPR—Sexual Assault Prevention and Response
SARC—Sexual Assault Response Coordinator
SART—Sexual Assault Response Training
SF—Security Forces
SG—Surgeon General
VA—Victim Advocate
VWAP—Victim Witness Assistance Program

Terms
Consent—Consent shall not be deemed or construed to mean the failure by the victim to offer physical
resistance. Consent is not given when a person uses force, threat of force, coercion or when the victim is
asleep, incapacitated, or unconscious.
HCP—Refers to on-base healthcare providers. Includes those individuals who are employed or assigned
as healthcare professionals, or are credentialed to provide health care services, at a military medical or
dental treatment facility or who are providing such care elsewhere at a deployed location or otherwise in
an official capacity. The term also includes individuals assigned to the MTF who are directed by or
assigned to assist or otherwise support healthcare professionals in providing healthcare services.
MRE—Rules which govern the admissibility of evidence at courts-martial.
Personally Identifying Information—This information includes name or a particularly identifying
description (e.g., physical characteristics or position, rank, or organization) or other information that
could be understood to identify the person (e.g., a female in a particular squadron or dormitory when only
one female is assigned).
Restricted Reporting—The Department of Defense has directed the implementation of confidentiality in
the form of a restricted reporting option that enables military members to report allegations of sexual
assault to specified personnel, without triggering an investigation. This reporting option gives the
individual access to medical care, counseling and a victim advocate but does not initiate the investigative
process.
Sexual Assault—Sexual assault is a crime. Sexual assault is defined as intentional sexual contact,
characterized by use of force, physical threat, or abuse of authority or when the victim does not or cannot
consent. Sexual assault includes rape, nonconsensual sodomy (e.g., oral or anal sex), indecent assault
(e.g., unwanted, inappropriate sexual contact or fondling), or attempts to commit these acts. Sexual
assault can occur without regard to gender or spousal relationship or age of victim.
Unrestricted Report—Any report of a sexual assault made through normal reporting channels, including
the victim’s chain of command, law enforcement, and the AFOSI or other criminal investigative service is
considered an unrestricted report. A report made to a SARC or healthcare provider where the individual
does not elect restricted reporting, is considered an unrestricted report.
14                                                    DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-203 7 APRIL 2008


Victim—A person who alleges direct physical, emotional, or pecuniary harm as a result of the
commission of a sexual assault or other crime of interpersonal violence and who has a connection with the
installation, to include dependents and DoD civilians.
DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-203 7 APRIL 2008                                                                         15


                                               Attachment 2

    COMMANDER SEXUAL ASSAULT RESPONSE CHECKLIST FOR UNRESTRICTED
                     REPORTS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

A2.1. The Commander’s Sexual Assault Response Checklist is provided to assist unit commanders in
successfully navigating the myriad of competing demands placed upon them when a sexual assault is
reported. The use of the checklist has the primary objective of ensuring that there is an appropriate bal-
ance between a victim’s right to feel secure and the alleged offender’s right to due process under the law.
The checklist serves to assist commanders in working with the SARC and the AFOSI to ensure victims
are well cared for throughout the reporting process. Its use also provides guidelines and standards for
addressing unit interests in sexual assault cases.

A2.2. Commanders have the authority to expand upon this checklist, if necessary, to protect victims from
further harm or trauma, to protect the rights of the alleged offender or to safeguard the unit.
Victim’s Commander.
( ) Ensure the physical safety of the victim--determine if the alleged offender is still nearby and if the vic-
tim desires or needs protection.
( ) Determine if the victim desires or needs any emergency medical care.
( ) Notify AFOSI as soon as the victim’s immediate safety is assured, and medical treatment procedures
elected by the victim are initiated.
( ) To the extent practicable, strictly limit knowledge of the facts or details regarding the incident to only
those personnel who have a legitimate need-to-know.
( ) Take action to safe guard the victim from any formal or informal investigative interviews or inquiries,
except those conducted by authorities who have a legitimate need-to-know.
 ( ) Collect only the necessary information (e.g., victim’s identity, location, and time of the incident, name
and/or description of offender(s)). DO NOT ASK DETAILED QUESTIONS AND/OR PRESSURE THE
VICTIM FOR RESPONSES OR INFORMATION ABOUT THE INCIDENT.
( ) Advise the victim of the need to preserve evidence (by not bathing, showering, having anything by
mouth, voiding bladder, or washing garments) while waiting for AFOSI.
( ) Ensure the SARC is notified immediately if the SARC has not contacted the victim’s commander. The
SARC will assign an advocate to assist the victim with the reporting process.
( ) If needed, assist with or provide immediate transportation for the victim to the hospital or other appro-
priate medical treatment facility.
( ) Determine if the victim desires or needs a “no contact’ order or a DD Form 2873, Military Protection
Order (MPO), to be issued, particularly if the victim and the alleged offender are assigned to the same
command, unit, duty location, or living quarters. Coordination with other commanders may be necessary
if the alleged offender is assigned to a different commander.
( ) Determine the need for temporary reassignment to another unit, duty location, or living quarters on the
installation of the victim or the alleged offender being investigated, working with the alleged offender’s
commander if different than the victim’s commander, until there is a final legal disposition of the sexual
16                                                       DAVISMONTHANAFBI90-203 7 APRIL 2008


assault allegation, and/or the victim is no longer in danger. To the extent practicable, consider the desires
of the victim when making any reassignment determinations.
( ) Attend the monthly case management meeting. Ensure the victim receives a monthly report regarding
the status of the sexual assault investigation until its final disposition.
( ) Consult with servicing legal office prior to taking any administrative or disciplinary action affecting
the victim. Absent extenuating or overriding considerations which, in the commander’s judgment, make it
inappropriate to delay taking action, the commander should consider deferring discipline for such victim
misconduct until all investigations are completed and the sexual assault allegation has been resolved.
Keep in mind the implications of this decision on speedy trial and/or statute of limitation.
( ) Avoid automatic suspension or revocation of a security and/or Personnel Reliability Program (PRP)
clearance access, understanding that the victim may be satisfactorily treated for his/her related trauma
without compromising his/her security clearance or PRP status. Consider the negative impact that suspen-
sion of a victim’s security clearance or PRP may have on building a climate of trust and confidence in the
Air Force’s sexual assault reporting system, but make final determination based upon established national
security standards. (See DoD 5210.42-R (Reference (ad) for specific requirements.).
Unit Commander’s Prevention Checklist.
( ) Establish a command climate of prevention that is predicated on mutual respect and trust, that recog-
nizes and embraces diversity, and that values the contributions of all its members.
( ) Emphasize that sexual assault violates the core values of what being a professional in the Armed
Forces is all about and is something that ultimately destroys unit cohesion and the trust that is essential for
mission success.
( ) Emphasize DoD and Military Service policies on sexual assault and the potential legal consequences
for those who commit such crimes.
( ) Keep a “finger on the pulse” of the organization’s climate and respond with appropriate action toward
any negative trends that may emerge.
In The Event Of A Sexual Assault.
( ) Discourage members from participating in “barracks gossip” or grapevine speculation about the case
or investigation. Remind everyone to wait until all the facts are known and final disposition of the allega-
tion has occurred before reaching conclusions.
( ) Remind members that discussion of a possible sexual assault incident might compromise an ensuing
investigation.
( ) Emphasize that the alleged offender is presumed innocent until proven guilty.
( ) Advise those who may have knowledge of the events leading up to or surrounding the incident to fully
cooperate with any investigation involved.
( ) Consider some form of unit refresher training; or have an outside expert address the unit regarding pre-
ventive measures, as well as some of the emotional or psychological feelings that may manifest them-
selves, affect the unit, and require the unit’s response during the course of the investigation.
( ) Continuously monitor the unit’s overall climate to ensure neither the victim and/or the alleged offender
is being ostracized and prevent organizational splintering.
