BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                      DOD4525.8-M_AFMAN 33-306/
NIAGARAFALLS AIR RESERVE STATION                            NIAGARAFALLS SUPPLEMENT 1

                                                                                 01 January 2012
                                                                       Information Management

                                                                    OFFICIAL MAIL MANUAL
           COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no restrictions for the release of this publication
OPR: 914 CS/SCOK                               Certified By: 914 CS/SC (Lt Col David P. Jaacks)
Supersedes: DOD4525-8/AF SUP 1/NFARS Supplement 1, 30 May 02
Pages: 4


DODM4525.8_AFMAN33-306, 12 October 2006, is supplemented as follows:
(Added) (NFARS) This supplement applies to all reserve organizations serviced by the Niagara
Falls Air Reserve Station Official Mail Program through the Official Mail Center. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to
the 914 CS/SCOK. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcssaf61a/afrims/afrims.


SUMMARY OF CHANGES
(NFARS) This Supplement is extensively changed and must be reviewed in its entirety.
CHAPTER 1

C1.3.2.1 (NFARS) The Installation Commander will designate the authorization of appropriated
fund postage in writing to the Official Mail Center (OMC) prior to the event.

C1.10.2.1. (Added) (NFARS) Requests for overnight service will be sent out the most cost
effective way. Individual should send overnight service to Supply, as it is in most cases, the
most cost effective.

C1.10.2.2. (Added) (NFARS) All overnight service requests for Express Mail will be made in
writing. At a minimum, describe the contents of the mailing and the mission impact should the
package not be received the next day by the intended recipient. The request will be signed by
division chief and forwarded to the Official Mail Manager (OMM) for approval prior to delivery

                                                                                                 1
to the OMC. For FedEx; the sending office will deliver the package to Transportation
Management Office (TMO) for processing.

C1.10.5. (NFARS) The USPS delivers all USPS Express Mail directly to the addressee. The
receiving Activity Distribution Office (ADO) is responsible for initiating the request for refund
with the mail originator.

C1.11.2.5. (NFARS) Print “DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE” and “OFFICIAL
BUSINESS” as the return address element on both pre-metered and courtesy reply mail. A
template to be used for printing can be supplied when the request for either pre-metered, and/or
courtesy reply mail is coordinated through the OMM.

C1.13.4. (NFARS) Outgoing foreign mail (e.g. Canada) will be separated from banded or tied
bundles.

C1.15.1. (NFARS) If an attempt to misuse mail is suspected, the OMM or designated
representative may inspect all official administrative communications in the Official Mail Center
(OMC). Mailroom personnel will either open the item, or return it to the office of origin for
inspection and investigation.

C1.19.2.2.2.1. (Added) (NFARS) Do not use white letter envelopes as the outside container for
classified material being sent through the US Mail by any means of transmission, i.e., First-
Class, US Certified, or US Registered mail. Use opaque envelopes only as the outside container.

C1.20.3.2. (NFARS) The log or electronic tracking system must be restarted with 001 each
fiscal year and be maintained IAW Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

C1.20.3.3. (NFARS) ADOs identify the special service requested on the DD Form 2825,
Internal Receipt beside each container number on the accountable mail piece.

CHAPTER 2

C2.3.5.1. (NFARS) The OMC is open Monday through Friday. The hours of operation are
posted outside the mailroom. All USPS mail is received from the USPS Branch Office Monday
through Friday, and dispatched to intended recipients via mailbox receptacle.

C2.3.5.1.1. (Added) (NFARS) All outgoing accountable communications must be received by
mailroom personnel no later than 1230 hrs daily, to ensure same day dispatch.

C2.3.5.2.1. (Added) (NFARS) Outgoing mail is consolidated for the following units on
Monday, Wednesday and Friday (except holidays):


C2.3.5.2.1.1. 78 ABW/SCOK, Robins AFB GA

C2.3.5.2.1.2. DFAS Mail Center, Denver CO
                                                                                                    2
C2.3.5.2.1.3. ARPC Mail Center, Denver CO

C2.3.5.2.1.4. 94 CS/SCOK, Dobbins ARB GA

C2.3.5.2.3. (NFARS) The OMC will provide Official Mail training covering mail preparation
and processing procedures to all activity distribution office (ADO) personnel at least annually
and as changes or updates occur.

C2.3.6. (Added) (NFARS) Section chiefs will appoint, in writing, those individuals authorized
to sign for accountable communications (registered, certified, signature/ delivery confirmation,
on Air Force Form 4332). Each section will designate at least one alternate. Designation will
include grade, name, security eligibility, signature and phone number. The Section Chief must
ensure that a Temporary or Student Hire has a security clearance as verified through Joint
Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS) prior to appointment. Forward one copy of the
designation letter to the OMC.

C2.18.3. (NFARS) In the event a meter machine or scale should break down, official mail will
be processed in accordance with local Host-Tenant agreement

CHAPTER 4

C4.1.1. (NFARS) Mailroom personnel shall review the OMC Security, Business Recovery Plan
annually. The Real Property Building Manager will act as the POC for the building. The Wing
OMM shall be notified as soon as practical and advised of an incident/situation.

CHAPTER 8

C8.1.1.1. (NFARS) Section chiefs will appoint, in writing, those individuals authorized to sign
for accountable communications (registered, certified, signature/delivery confirmation, on Air
Force Form 4332). Each section will designate at least one alternate. Designation will include
grade, name, security eligibility, signature and phone number. Forward one copy of the
designation letter to the mailroom. AF Form 4332 will be updated annually

C8.2.1. (NFARS) Act as the focal point for all mail issues within the organization. Instruct
organization personnel in proper methods for addressing mail, intra-base and outgoing off-base
mail. Contact the OMC when unusual questions or circumstances arise. Actively pursue mail
training for all distribution office personnel.

C8.2.1.1.1. (NFARS) Optional Forms 65B and 65C U.S. Government Messenger Envelopes
(Medium & Large) must include the organization/office symbol, street address if known, for on
base distribution, and installation/state/Zip+4 Code for all pouch/ consolidated mail. Material to
pouch/consolidated locations which exceeds 10” x 15” x 1” should be placed in an opaque
envelope, or brown corrugated box with a mailing label affixed showing complete return and
forwarding addresses.



                                                                                                   3
C8.2.1.1.1.1. (Added) (NFARS) Ensure Air Force Form 4332 (Accountable Communications
Receipt Authorization) is current, correct, and maintained IAW RDS.


ALLAN L. SWARTZMILLER, Col, USAFR
Commander




                                                                                       4
