BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                      DOD5400.7RAFSUP_ACC SUP
OFFUTT AIR FORCE BASE                                                            OFFUTT AFB




                                                                                    Supplement
                                                                                6 MARCH 2008
                                                             Communications and Information
                                     DOD FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT PROGRAM

           COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
______________________________________________________________________________
ACCESSIBILITY: The official version of this publication is available electronically on the
Offutt AFB Intranet site at: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/afp40/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?command= base&channelPageId=-
1073755344&pageId=681742. If you lack access, please contact the Base Publishing Office for
an electronic copy.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
______________________________________________________________________________
OPR: 55 CS/SCSF                                                        Certified by: 55 CG/CC
Supersedes DoD 5400.7R_Offutt AFB Sup                             (Colonel Boykin B. Jordan Jr.)
1, 30 December 2000                                                   Pages: 11
______________________________________________________________________________
DoD 5400.7-R_AF SUP, 24 June 2002; ACC SUP 1, 11 February 2003, are supplemented as
follows: This supplement establishes policies and procedure governing the receipt, processing,
and transmission of Freedom of Information Act requests. This supplement does not apply to the
Air National Guard, Air Force Reserve Command units, United States Strategic Command
(USSTRATCOM) and the Air Force Weather Agency (AFWA), except when referring Freedom
of Information Act requests. It applies to tenant units serviced by approved host-tenant support
agreements identifying FOIA services. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (to be replaced
by AFMAN 33-363), and are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. Contact supporting records managers as
required. All documents and records that are part of a Freedom of Information Act request will
be handled and protected as “For Official Use Only” (FOUO), except those requests required to
be handled under security classification standards when properly classified. This publication
requires collection and maintenance of information subject to the Privacy Act of 1974. The
authority to collect and maintain this information is 5 U.S.C. 552, Freedom of Information Act as
implemented by Air Force Supplement to DoD 5400.7R, 5 U.S.C. 552a, Privacy Act of 1974 ,
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 10 U.S.C. 8013 and E.O. 9397 (SSN). System of records
2                   DOD5400.7RAFSUP_ACC SUP 1 OFFUTT AFB SUP 6 MARCH 2008
notices F033 AF A and F033 AF B apply.
SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
This publication has been significantly revised and requires complete review. This revision
updates program requirements for mailing of FOIA documents, identifies procedures for
processing of requests using the FOIA/PA Community of Practice website, updates unit routing
locators where applicable, adds sample submitter notification letter, and adds instructions for
processing of contract FOIA requests on the Offutt AFB FOIA/PA Community of Practice
website. Direct any questions to 55 CS/SCSF (FOIA) at 294-9994.
C1.5.3.6.1. (AF) (ACC) FOIA requests will be digitally uploaded to the Offutt AFB FOIA/PA
Community of Practice (CoP) web site or hand delivered to Office(s) of Primary Responsibility
(OPR) designated as responsive action office(s). OPR(s) will upload all completed FOIA
paperwork to the CoP or hand carry the request with required paper records and forms to the
FOIA office, or contact the FOIA Office for pickup upon completion of required actions. FOIA
requests WILL NOT be sent through the Base Information Transfer System (BITS) under any
circumstances. FOIA requests are to be handled and protected as “For Official Use Only”
(FOUO) information. Required security standards must be applied when classified documents
and records are part of a FOIA request.
C1.5.3.6.7. (Added) The action office will make contact with requesters to clarify issues in
regards to specific records requested, willingness to pay limits or narrowing/amending the scope
of the request. The FOIA Office will handle issues dealing with response dates and appeal
actions. The action office should receive written confirmation from the requester for any
amendments to original FOIA request. If it is determined that the request for information can be
processed as a functional request for information (information that is releasable outside of the
FOIA ) or the requester no longer desires to have the request processed, the requester must
submit a written notice to the action office and the FOIA office to cancel the FOIA request.
C1.5.3.6.8. (Added) Action office(s) will complete DD Form 2086, Record of Freedom of
Information (FOI) Processing Cost; or DD2086-1, Freedom of Information (FOI) Processing
Cost for Technical Data; AF Form 2519, All Purpose Checklist, overprint (contract FOIA
requests only) and provide a memorandum summarizing the recommended release/denial actions
for the requested documents. The action office must also identify if any parts of the requested
documents have been superseded, become obsolete or no longer exist. Action offices will also
identify if any special information sensitivity designations can be removed from the documents
prior to returning FOIA request. The action office must identify the applicable exemption(s)
being applied for each page of a document when denying portions of or entire documents.
Example: Page 1--Partial Denial - Exemption (b)(6). Offices uploading completed FOIA
documents to the CoP may use a memorandum format or the redaction software note’s feature.
C1.5.3.6.9. (Added) Action offices providing paper documents in response to FOIA requests
will annotate “BEST COPY AVAILABLE” on those documents where legibility of the
documents resulting from age, type of paper, reproduction, or conversion to portable document
format (.pdf) file has diminished the overall quality of requested records.
C1.5.3.6.10. (Added) Action offices will include a statement as part of the memorandum review
DOD5400.7RAFSUP_ACC SUP 1 OFFUTT AFB SUP 6 MARCH 2008                                           3
summary that responsive records are complete in terms of the pages provided. Additionally,
when multiple documents are provided as responsive records, the action officer (AO) will
provide an index indicating the specific page number group that comprises each responsive
record. If one or more individual records do not exist, or have been superseded by another
document, a statement explaining the reason-selected records were not provided in response to
the request will be included in the AO response (Example 1: Modification number 21 replaced
modification numbers 3 and 8 to contract SP0XXX-XX-XXXX); (Example 2: An abstract of
offers list does not exist for this contract because one was not prepared).
C1.5.3.6.11. (Added) Action office memorandums summaries for contract documents will
include a statement as to whether the contracting squadron AO concurs or does not concur with
the recommendations provided by the submitter. Differences of opinion will include the specific
reason(s) a disagreement exists.
C1.5.3.7. (AF) (ACC) The 55th Communications Squadron Freedom of Information
Act/Privacy Act Office (55 CS/SCSF, Stop Code 2040) serves as the Freedom of Information
Act single point of service for Offutt AFB organizations and supported tenant units.
C1.5.3.7.1.1. (AF) The FOIA Office will use the web-based Air Force Freedom of Information
Act Tracking System (AF FACTS) to account for and control FOIA requests.
C1.5.3.7.1.2. (AF) (ACC) A blanket legal review covers all FOIA requests that ask for base
telephone directories, organizational charts or economic impact analysis reports. Blanket legal
reviews will be recertified every two years unless policy doctrine changes or status of applicable
records warrant a review before the two-year period expires.
C1.5.3.7.1.3. (AF) The Freedom of Information Act Officer will serve as the disclosure
authority for requests that are determined to be fully releasable, no records responses and
requests identifying a willingness to accept the clearly releasable portions of a requested record
with exempted portions of the record obliterated or digitally removed by the FOIA office. In the
absence of the FOIA Officer, the individual designated to serve as the Acting FOIA Officer will
serve as the FOIA disclosure authority. Group/squadron commanders or civilian equivalents will
serve as organizational recommending denial authorities and sign referral actions for
recommended partial or total denial actions for records under their ownership. The FOIA
Officer is also authorized release documents only requiring action to remove individual
signatures, social security numbers, e-mail addresses, bank account information, tax
identification number, or other third party information from documents under the provisions of
the Privacy Act of 1974 or current Department of Defense information protection policy prior to
release. Requests will be handled as recommended denial actions if there other portions of the
requested record being recommended for withholding action.
C1.5.3.7.1.8. (AF) (ACC) (Added) The following organizations are required to designate a
point of contact for handling and processing of Freedom of Information Act requests due to the
number of requests received for information originating from the identified organizations: 55th
Security Forces Squadron Administration and Reports function, 55th Civil Engineer Squadron,
55th Medical Group Clinical Records and Family Advocacy functions, 55th Contracting
Squadron, and 55th Wing History Office. Training presentations are available for access and
download at https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/docman/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&FolderID=OO-SC-
AC-40-13&Filter=OO-SC-AC-40.
4                    DOD5400.7RAFSUP_ACC SUP 1 OFFUTT AFB SUP 6 MARCH 2008
C1.5.3.7.3. (AF) The FOIA Office will submit addition, modification, and deletion
requirements to the Office of Public Affairs who will build requirements to the FOIA section of
the installation public web site. Links functionality will be checked by the FOIA Office on a bi-
monthly basis and updated links information provided to Public Affairs when required. Updated
data calls for documents residing in the Electronic FOIA Reading Room will be accomplished
annually or as the need warrants.
C1.5.7.2. (AF) If the request stipulates information is to be provided in an electronic format
and/or a particular software application, the action office should provide the records in that
media, unless circumstances such as computer language, non-availability of the software media
or other reasons exist that prevent the format of the request from being honored.
C1.5.9.4. (AF) The FOIA Office will process requests for tenant units where the Host-Tenant
Agreement (HTSA) supplier services identify the requirement to provide FOIA services. The
FOIA Office will also provide partial or total FOIA services when the parent MAJCOM of a
non-supported tenant unit requests direct assistance due to geographic separation or other issue.
C1.5.9.4.1. (Added) FOIA requests will be mailed to the HQ ACC final denial authority and
requesters via First Class Mail or 2-3 day United Parcel Service (UPS), whichever is the least
expensive means, to avoid delays in receiving and processing FOIA requests. The FOIA Office
will attach the “FIRST CLASS MAIL/2-3 DAY UNITED PARCEL SERVICE” placard to identify
mailing requirements to the servicing postal center. The servicing postal center will complete
the postage fees placard and return it to the FOIA Office for inclusion in final cost computations.
C1.5.12. (AF) Records Management. Action offices will retain record copies of responsive
records submitted in response to FOIA requests according to the standard Air Force records
disposition schedule.
C1.5.15. Honoring Form or Format Requests. Requesters asking for PDF as the media of
choice for responsive records released will have documents copied to a CD-ROM disk and
mailed to the address shown on the FOIA request disk because supporting e-mail configuration
cannot transmit large PDF files.
C1.5.16. (Added) Organizations and functions which have been contracted out, or who are part
of an A-76 government employee Most Efficient Organization (MEO) will conduct records
searches and provide responsive records to FOIA requests for information resources under
provisions stated in the records management contract clause of the Federal Acquisition
Regulation (FAR) for which the government holds ownership. Records internal to commercial
contractors are not subject to this supplement. Government statutory time limits for Freedom of
Information Act processing actions will be complied with.
C2.1.2.4.2.4. (AF) The Offutt AFB Electronic FOIA Reading Room is available by accessing
the Offutt AFB Public Domain Internet at http://www.offutt.af.mil/library/foia.asp.
C2.1.2.4.2.4.1. (Added) Any requested document determined to be fully releasable and has
general public interest shall be uploaded as part of the Electronic FOIA Reading Room.
Document formats will be those software applications that are common to most business and
home computer systems. The 55th Wing Public Affairs Office will review all information prior
to placement on the public domain web page. The Government Purchase Cardholder listing will
be void of individual cardholder names due to issuance of information security policy originating
DOD5400.7RAFSUP_ACC SUP 1 OFFUTT AFB SUP 6 MARCH 2008                                             5
from the Department of Defense. The 55th Contracting Squadron will make fully releasable
versions of contracts available for posting to the Offutt public domain website or access via link
from the Offutt public webpage to Fed Biz Ops at http://www.fedbizopps.gov/ when entering the
last option period of performance. The purpose is to give interested parties public access to the
releasable contract information preparation for re-solicitation of a replacement contract. The
Comptroller Squadron shall provide the yearly Economic and Impact Analysis report for upload.
C2.1.2.4.2.4.2. (Added) Contracted or MEO functions will provide frequently asked for
government owned records in the format requested for placement in the Offutt AFB Electronic
FOIA Reading Room upon demand from the FOIA Office. Corporate owned records are not
eligible for placement in the Electronic Reading Room.
C3.1.1. General. E-Mail communications containing information subject to one or more of the
nine standard exemptions will display the required warning statement as the first part of the e-
mail, or where otherwise designated for other media when information is transmitted or
displayed. E-mail warning statements are part of the standard logon script for the Microsoft
applications under “E-mail Statements” portion of the menu bar or are found by clicking the
“insert” feature; clicking on “more” and then selecting the statement of choice.
C3.2.1.1.2. (AF) Requests for former Headquarters Strategic Air Command (SAC) history
records will be referred to AFHRA, 600 Chennault Circle, Bldg 1405 Maxwell AFB, AL 36112-
6424 for action and direct response to the requester. Requests for records owned by tenant unit
Intelligence activities will be referred to the Air Intelligence Agency (AIA), 102 Hall Blvd, STE
246, Lackland AFB, TX 78243-7009.
C3.2.1.6.2.2.2. (ACC) The FOIA Office will send semiannual routinely deployable/sensitive
unit validation notice with the applicable information to review to designated organizations upon
receipt from HQ ACC FOIA Office. Office will respond in writing with any changes or specific
request to remove organization from the list. Copies of the listing will be furnished to the SJA
and Military Personnel Systems functions.
C5.2.6.3.5. (AF) The FOIA Office will notify requesters of contract documents regarding
additional response time considerations such as submitter notification and input when the request
is initially received and as circumstances warrant thereafter. Requesters will also be notified if a
significant amount of FOIA requests have been received resulting in their request placed in the
complex processing cue. Requesters will be given an anticipated response date for requests not
expected to be processed within the required statutory time requirements. Requesters will also
be given the opportunity to narrow the scope of the request or cancel the request if the
anticipated response date does not meet their need.
C6.1.5.2.4. (AF) Action offices will contact the requester in writing to obtain a revised
willingness to pay fees above the original amount stated based on estimated costs to search for,
review and reproduce responsive records. Action offices should use caution when determining
fee calculations to ensure a reasonable standard of fairness has been applied to the chargeable fee
estimates. Upon review of the action office fee estimations, the FOIA office can reduce or
increase the fee estimates based on known standards of time for completing FOIA processing
actions.
C6.2.1. (ACC) Collection of Fees. The FOIA Office will hand carry all fees received for
processing of FOIA requests to the servicing Defense Finance and Accounting Office using DD
6                     DOD5400.7RAFSUP_ACC SUP 1 OFFUTT AFB SUP 6 MARCH 2008
Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher. Fees will be forwarded within three (3) business days
from date of receipt, or the next business day thereafter if the servicing activity is not available to
conduct business transactions. Fees not received within specified 30 days will have a second
notice prepared identifying placement on the HQ ACC FOIA Delinquent Payment List and
transfer of the outstanding amount to the applicable Defense Finance and Accounting Service for
collection. The HQ ACC FOIA Office will be furnished the requester’s name, case number,
amount owed and copies of all documentation pertaining to outstanding chargeable fees.
AP7.18. (Added) Sample Letter of Notification to Submitter Identifying Receipt of Freedom of
Information Act Request.
MEMORANDUM FOR (Submitter’s Mailing Address)
FROM: 55 CONS
         101 Washington Square
         Offutt AFB NE 68113-2107
SUBJECT: Request for Contract Information under the Freedom of Information Act
(Reference Contract (identify contract number)
We have received a request under the Freedom of Information Act from (name of requester and
company) for a copy of (identify the specific contract documents being requested).
If the identified contract has been previously requested, we will identify the previous request
actions to you (show previous request history, if any).
To determine the releasability of the information contained in these documents and to give you
the maximum protection under the law, please review the attached documents and give us the
information outlined in attachment 2. If you feel the information is exempt from disclosure,
identify by item, line, column, etc. those portions you believe meet the requirements of
Exemption 4 of Title 5, United States Code, Section 552 (b). Preferably, the information should
be bracketed using a software application such as Redax or Adobe Professional. If you are using
an application other than the ones identified, please contact our office to determine if any
compatibility issues exist. Place a red square around the selected information you are
recommending not be released. If an entire page is being recommended for denial, use the
associated software feature such as “redact page.” In addition, we need full written justification
how release would adversely impact or cause harm to your competitive position or commercial
interests. The justification should site applicable case law or other pertinent precedent as it
applies to your specific contract. An assertion such as “all information was submitted in
confidence and must be denied” is not an adequate justification of denial. Use the “comments”
feature to insert your justification on the applicable page. This will then create a summary listing
identifying all of your recommendations. If you submit your recommendation in letter format,
you must address each individual page (i.e. Page 1- Release; Page 2- Partial Denial- Exemption
(4) and your specific justification for applying the exemption). You must identify whether the
government has permission to remove any proprietary information sensitivity warnings from
pages which contain such warnings. This only applies to pages being recommended for full
release.
DOD5400.7RAFSUP_ACC SUP 1 OFFUTT AFB SUP 6 MARCH 2008                                            7
If you do not have the capability to use the aforementioned software applications, annotate a
paper version of the contract documents with your recommended denial actions in “red pencil”
(DO NOT USE INK, MARKER, and OR OTHER PERMANENT DEVICE). Also, DO NOT
OBLITERATE INFORMATION BEING RECOMMENDED FOR DENIAL.
We need your response not later than (15 calendar day suspense). Contact us via e-mail
(provide e-mail address), fax (identify fax number), or return correspondence at the earliest
opportunity. If an extension is required, you must contact the Freedom of Information act Office
via e-mail at Offutt.FOIA@offutt.af.mil.
If you fail to respond to this (letter, e-mail, fax) by the stated suspense date, we will consider
your non-response to mean that you have no objection to public release of the attached (identify
records) in their entirety.
                                             Sincerely
                                             (Base Contracting Official Signature)
Attachments:
1. Requested records (Paper Version/CD-ROM Disk)
2. Requirements of Title 5 USC 552(b)(4) Extract
From DoD 5400.7R/AFSUP 1/Appendix 11
FOIA Case # XX-XXX
AP9.6. Processing a Request for Contract Documents using the FOIA/PA CoP.
AP 9.6.1. Step 1. FOIA Office accepts and uploads request, suspense memorandum, and
request          history         summary             to          the          CoP           at
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/docman/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&FolderID=OO-SC-AC-40-11-
7&Filter=OO-SC-AC-40. Other forms and sample letters used to process the request are
preloaded on the CoP and appear after the last suspense folder posted on “Contract Processing”
link.
AP 9.6.2. Step 2. The FOIA Office transmits an e-mail to the Contracting Squadron identifying
there are new FOIA requests requiring processing action and assigns a suspense date.
AP 9.6.3. Step 3. The Contracting Squadron POC assigns the FOIA request(s) to the applicable
CONS Action Officer for the contract documents being requested.
AP9.6.4. Step 4. The CONS Action Officer reviews the requester’s letter and the request history
summary.
AP9.6.5. Step 5. Does Offutt AFB own the contract? If yes, continue to the next step. If no,
identify the applicable owning agency for the contract by inserting a memorandum in the CoP
with the required information. The FOIA Office will notify the requester to resubmit a new
FOIA request to the respective agency and close the request, or refer the request to the applicable
owning activity for the contract.
AP9.6.6. Step 6. Does the information already exist as an official or vital record? Does it exist
in multiple locations or sources requiring consolidation into a single record? If no, prepare a “no
records” response as the government is not required to create a new record in response to a FOIA
8                    DOD5400.7RAFSUP_ACC SUP 1 OFFUTT AFB SUP 6 MARCH 2008
request. If it is cost effective to collect, assemble and create a record versus extracting
information from many sources, the action office may create the record providing it is responsive
to the request.
AP9.6.7. Step 7. Are the contract documents still current? If yes, continue to the next step. If
no, has the contract expired and been disposed of according to the Air Force records disposition
schedule? If yes, identify the table and rule from the records disposition schedule and upload
information into the CoP. The FOIA Office will then staff the answer through Staff Judge
Advocate and respond to the requester with a “no records” response. If a new contract has
replaced the expired one, provide the information to the requester and afford them the
opportunity to request the new contract. Has the contract been archived to the Base Staging Area
until eligible for disposition? If yes, retrieve the document and continue to the next step in the
process. If it is determined no records exist as it pertains to the information identified in the
FOIA request, identify no contract exists under the number identified. Upload information into
the CoP and the FOIA Office will prepare a “no records” response to the requester.
AP9.6.8. Step 8. Is any portion or all of the requested documents available through public
domain channels such as Fed Biz Ops http://www.fedbizopps.gov/? If yes, the CONS Action
Officer should contact the requester and provide them the necessary public domain source for
obtaining the documents and obtain written notification to cancel the request. If only a portion
of the requested documents are available, have the requester amend the request to ask for only
the documents that cannot be obtained via public domain channels.
AP9.6.9. Step 9. Have the requested documents previously been requested and released? If no,
the CONS Action Officer will proceed to Step 10. If yes, the FOIA Officer will contact the
requester to see if they will accept the clearly releasable portions of the previously released
documents. If the requester accepts the option, the FOIA Officer obtains written validation from
the requester and then downloads the final release version documents and the legal review from
the CoP historical section of the CoP. The FOIA Office then prepares the final transmittal
memorandum and mails the requested documents to the requester. If the previously released
documents match exactly to the records identified the requester’s letter, then no requester
validation is required and the documents and transmittal memorandum are mailed to the
requester. If the requester declines the clearly releasable portions of the documents previously
released, then the FOIA Officer provides the previously released documents to CONS to be
processed under the new request. Submitter notice is not required unless new contract
documents created since the last FOIA release was made for the contract.
AP9.6.10. Step 10. Once it has been determined that responsive records exist for the FOIA
request, the CONS Action Office must now review the request and contract summary
memorandum from the FOIA Office to see if submitter review is required for any or all
responsive records. If all requested records are government owned, no submitter input is
required. The CONS Action Officer reviews the documents and applies the necessary
exemptions to the documents using the redaction software feature and inserting the proper
exemption code into the bracketed area. The CONS Action Officer also uses the redaction
software notes feature to enter the specific reason the exemption was applied. Cost figures are
then entered onto the DD Form 2086 for any search and review cost. Cost of document
conversion to PDF is an administrative expense not chargeable to the requester. The contract
document and DD Form 2086 are then uploaded into the respective CoP contract folder. The
DOD5400.7RAFSUP_ACC SUP 1 OFFUTT AFB SUP 6 MARCH 2008                                          9
FOIA Office is notified the information has been uploaded to the CoP. The FOIA Office in turn
notifies the Staff Judge Advocate the request is ready for legal review.
AP9.6.11. Step 11. If a portion of or the entire document of the requested record is submitter
owned the CONS action officers must forward a submitter notification memorandum to the
contract owner NLT 5 business days after receiving the initial suspense action. The CONS
action officer must also include a copy of Appendix 11 to DoD 5400.7R and a copy of the
requested records. This information may be sent electronically providing the information
memory volume will allow for the transmission. The CONS action officer should obtain some
type of written verification the submitter received the FOIA package to avoid problems and lost
time should it be discovered the submitter did not receive the initial package.
AP9.6.12. Step 12. The submitter has a maximum of 30 calendar days to review the requested
records and make recommendations regarding release and/or denial of the information.
Recommendations must be supported using one or more of the nine standard exemptions
outlined in DoD 5400.7R. The submitter cannot use Appendix 11 verbiage as a justification to
deny information. If an extension is required, the submitter must request such action in writing
from the Freedom of Information Act Office. If a response from the submitter is not returned to
the CONS within the stated 30 calendar days and no extension has been requested and approved,
the CONS action officer must attempt to validate status of requested action. If the subsequent
attempt to obtain a response meets with negative results, the CONS action officer can interpret
the non-response to mean that there is no objection to the full release of any of the information
being requested and the action shown in Step 9 can be followed. If contact is made with the
submitter, the CONS will instruct the submitter to provide the CONS Action Officer with their
response within five business days or the lack of a response will be interpreted to mean no
objection to the full release of the information.
AP9.6.13. Step 13. Upon receipt of the submitter’s response, the CONS Action Officer will
review the recommendations made to the responsive record and determine agreement or
disagreement with the proposed actions. Instances where the submitter has not recommended
removal of individual signatures of e-mail addresses does not constitute a disagreement. The
CONS action officer then uploads a PDF file of the responsive records to the computer desktop
and then performs the following redaction actions to the record:
AP9.6.13.1. If the request is for multiple parts of the contract, the CONS Action Officer will
create a single document by using the insert pages feature of redaction or Adobe software
application. The CONS Action Officer must also furnish an index identifying where requested
record item is located (i.e. Basic contract, pages 1-30; Mod 1 pages 31-40; unsuccessful bidders
list, pages 41-43).
AP9.6.13.2. Draw a red box around all information recommended for denial. When
recommending entire pages for denial, the action officer will use the “redact page” symbol and
place it in the corner of the page(s) being recommended for denial.
AP9.6.13.3. The CONS Action Officer then inserts the applicable exemption code inside the red
box.
AP9.6.13.4. Add a note box to the outside of the red box with an explanation regarding why the
identified exemption applies. Any reasons for disagreement with the submitter are also entered
into the notes box area. If the not box feature is not used, the CONS Action Officer must furnish
10                   DOD5400.7RAFSUP_ACC SUP 1 OFFUTT AFB SUP 6 MARCH 2008
a separate memorandum with a page-by-page summary of the recommended actions and
applicable exemption codes.
AP9.6.13.5. Upon completion of the redacted document, the CONS Action Officer saves the
contract documents as contract XXXX with an R to signify it is the redacted version of the
contract. The contract is then loaded on the CoP along with the ACC Form 142 (if used), DD
Form 2086, submitter documentation, and any supporting documents created during the
recommendation process.       NOTE: To maintain file identity and integrity, uploaded CoP
documents must be named/titled in a manner that clearly identifies the document and the case it
is associated with. Use the following document name/title proceeded by the FOIA Case number
as they apply to the FOIA request.
AP9.6.13.5.1. FOIA Request XX-XXX
AP9.6.13.5.2. Envelope image (if applicable) XX-XXX
AP9.6.13.5.3. Submitter Notification (Name of Company optional) XX-XXX
AP9.6.13.5.4. Submitter Response (Name of company optional) XX-XXX (Include all
attachments provided by the submitter)
AP9.6.13.5.5. Contract XXXXXXXXX (R) XX-XXX
AP9.6.13.5.6. Legal Review XX-XXX
AP9.6.13.5.7. DD Form 2086 XX-XXX
AP9.6.13.5.8. Referral Notification XX-XXX
AP9.6.13.5.9. Requester Notice of Referral Action XX-XXX
AP9.6.13.5.10. Other supporting documentation. Documentation should be specific as to
subject matter and show case number (included in this category are extension requests,
clarification actions, and other communications impacting on the processing of the request).
AP9.6.14. Step 14. Once all documents have uploaded to the CoP, the CONS action officer
sends an e-mail to the FOIA Office notifying them that FOIA request is ready for legal review.
The FOIA Office reviews the information uploaded to the CoP. The FOIA Office will fix any
minor omissions, but if the corrections required are significant, the FOIA Officer will send an e-
mail to CONS identifying the FOIA request has been returned for corrective action. Normally,
three to five days will be allotted to perform corrective actions.
AP9.6.15. Step 15. Once the FOIA request has been determined to ready for the legal review,
the FOIA Office sends a request for legal review e-mail to the SJA notifying them there a FOIA
request on the CoP that is ready for a legal review.
AP9.6.16. Step 16. The SJA conducts a legal review and provides the legal review on a separate
summary. If corrections are required, the actions shown in Step 14 will be followed. Upon
completion of the legal review, the FOIA Office generates and submits the recommended denial
memorandum for the Contracting Squadron command authority to sign. Upon receipt of the
signed copy of the memorandum, the FOIA office uploads the memorandum along with the
requester notification of referral action memorandum to the CoP. The files in the CoP are then
placed in a zip file and uploaded to the HQ ACC FOIA CoP.
DOD5400.7RAFSUP_ACC SUP 1 OFFUTT AFB SUP 6 MARCH 2008                    11
                               JAMES J. JONES, Brigadier General, USAF
                               Commander
