BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                            DOD 5200.1R
                                                                 OFFUTT AFB SUPPLEMENT 1

                                                                                 1 JANUARY 2007

                                                                    Information Security Program

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
The official version of this publication is available digitally on the Offutt AFB Intranet site at:
https://wwwmil.offutt.af.mil/base/publications/sup/dod/index.htm. If you lack access, contact
the Base Publishing Office for an electronic copy.
OPR: 55 CS/SCSD (Mr. William Campbell)                                       Certified by: 55 CG/CC
                                                                               (Col Sheron Bellizan)
                                                                                           Pages: 13
Supersedes: DOD 5200.1-R/OAFB SUP 1, 3 May 2002                                       Distribution: F

DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, January 1997, is supplemented as follows: this
supplement establishes policies and procedures for preparing and destroying classified material
and sensitive unclassified by exception material using the Base Central Destruction Facility
(CDF) at Offutt AFB NE. It is consistent with those policies and procedures outlined in DoD
5200.1-R, Chapter 6, Safeguarding, and implements DoD 5105.21-M-1, and AFI 31-401. This
instruction applies to 55th Wing, tenant units, Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard units
assigned to Offutt AFB, and geographically separated units that require regional service support
for destruction services relating to classified holdings. Regional offices of the Federal
Government are also bound by this instruction when electing to use the Offutt AFB Central
Destruction Facility (CDF). Paragraph 6.7.5 of this Supplement is punitive; military personnel
can be punished under the Uniform Code of Military Punishment and civilian personnel can be
punished under applicable Air Force instructions for failure to comply. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records (to be replaced by AFMAN 33-363), and are disposed
of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at:
https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. USSTRATCOM offices will follow records disposition guidelines
shown in CJSM 576.01, Vol II. Contact supporting records managers as required.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS

This instruction updates procedural, service provider and agency responsibilities as it relates to
the destruction of classified paper holdings requiring special destruction processes, removes
precious metals destruction processes, updates plastics destruction requirements, and updates
contact and office symbol information. This supplement is substantially revised and should be
reviewed in its entirety.

C6.7.3. (Added) Offutt AFB Central Destruction Facility (CDF) Policy and Procedure.

C6.7.3.1. (Added) Establishment. Under the provisions of AFI 31-401, Information Security
Program Management, para 5.28.3, Offutt AFB has established a single point of service for
classified and sensitive unclassified by exception document destruction. A facility for
2                                            DOD5200.1-R_OAFBSUP1, 1 JANUARY 2007

the destruction of classified record holdings and USSTRATCOM unclassified record holdings by
exception is located in the Curtis LeMay Building 500, Room BF-9. The facility is limited to
the destruction of paper products and those items of specialized construction shown in paragraph
6.7.6.3. Agencies and organizations may destroy classified holdings using their own resources;
however, equipment used must meet established security and other applicable criteria for
document destruction.

C6.7.3.1.1. (Added) Unclassified Holdings Eligible for Destruction. All unclassified information
such as Privacy Act, For Official Use Only, Technical Orders, or other unclassified records
warranting special destruction will be destroyed according to guidelines outlined in AFI 33-332,
Air Force Privacy Act Program, DOD 5400.7-R, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program,
and local guidelines established by the servicing Privacy Act Officer. USSTRATCOM will use
established OPSEC procedures and bring their sensitive unclassified holdings to the CDF in the
Curtis LeMay Building. All other unclassified holdings not falling in a sensitive category will be
recycled using normal recycling procedures per AFI 32-7080, Pollution Prevention Program.
Offices designated as a Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility (SCIF) must include all
unclassified documents as part of the classified destruction process, except for those elements
shown in Attachment 1.

C6.7.3.1.2. (Added) Facility Hours of Operation. The Curtis LeMay Building document
destruction facility operates from 0700-1600, Monday through Friday. Destruction facility hours
of 0700-0800 and 1500-1600 are reserved for equipment maintenance and environmental
processes. These times are not available for customer service.

C6.7.3.1.2.1. (Added) Destruction of SCI, NC-2 ESI, and other special access program (SAP)
holdings will be accomplished on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays from 0800-1500 hours
through agency appointment actions. Appointments should be canceled if the designated
destruction time(s) is/are not needed. Specific days are dedicated to this category because of the
average volume of holdings requiring destruction. Two properly indoctrinated people, one of
whom must be an authorized Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) courier, must deliver
SCI material to the CDF and stay with the material until the destruction process is completed.
The agency will retain possession of any classified holdings not destroyed within the allotted
time scheduled. It is recommended that the agency obtain required future appointment(s) prior
to departing the CDF to perform destruction of remaining holdings.

C6.7.3.1.2.2. (Added) Holders of Communications Security (COMSEC) material will contact the
CDF as soon as the requirement exists to destroy COMSEC material for an appointment. Do not
include COMSEC aids when performing destruction actions. COMSEC destruction must be
witnessed by two individuals. Both individuals will record the destruction of Legend Code 1, 2,
and 4 materials on approved destruction report.

C6.7.3.1.2.3. (Added) Destruction of collateral holdings (Confidential, Secret, and Top Secret
classifications with NO special access identifiers) will be accomplished on Tuesdays and
Thursdays from 0800-1500 through organizational appointments with the CDF. The destruction
of Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information (UNCI) holdings will also be accomplished on
these days. Two people with appropriate clearance levels must destroy and document
DOD5200.1-R_OAFBSUP1, 1 JANUARY 2007                                                        3

destruction of Top Secret material. One person may deliver Secret/Confidential material unless
otherwise specified in governing policy.

C6.7.3.1.3. (Added) Facility Use. The CDF operates on an appointment basis. The agency
requiring document destruction service is responsible for making the necessary appointment and
bringing the document holdings to the facility. Contact USSTRATCOM/J050 for entrance
requirements to the Curtis LeMay Building. The Curtis LeMay Building document destruction
facility is a manned CDF and manages the document destruction process by destroying
authorized media upon delivery of the record holdings by the owning organization. Agencies
should take into account any logistical and administrative requirements that require completion
so that appointments are kept. Normally, only 30 minutes are allotted per appointment for
customers of the Curtis LeMay Building; however, unique circumstances will allow for
additional time. Agencies should develop destruction schedules based on volume and other
considerations so backlogs do not occur. Contact the CDF manager as soon as possible when an
appointment is no longer required so that the time allocation can be given to another agency. If
agencies show up with more materials than can be destroyed in the allotted appointment time,
they must take any undestroyed materials with them at the end of their appointment and schedule
another appointment to complete the destruction process.

C6.7.3.1.4. (Added) Facility Safety. The CDF manager will provide any necessary safety
equipment to prevent personal injury in accordance with applicable occupational safety and
health standards.

C6.7.4. (Added) Responsibilities:

C6.7.4.1. (Added) USSTRATCOM/J211.

C6.7.4.1.1. (Added) Maintains security cognizance over the classified destruction facility as it is
defined as a Temporary Secure Working Area (TSWA) when used for SCI destruction.

C6.7.4.1.2. (Added) Conducts periodic samplings of recycled products to ensure products are
within established security standards.

C6.7.4.1.3. (Added) Notifies the 55th Communications Squadron of any required security policy
additions, changes or deletions impacting manpower and CDF procedures.

C6.7.4.1.4. (Added) Conducts required USSTRATCOM security inspections/program reviews
and provides report summaries to the 55th Communications Squadron.

C6.7.4.2. (Added) 55th Wing Privacy Act Office/CDF Facility Manager.

C6.7.4.2.1. (Added) Establishes policy and procedures regarding the scheduling and use of the
facility consistent with DOD, Air Force, USSTRATCOM, and other local security policy.
4                                            DOD5200.1-R_OAFBSUP1, 1 JANUARY 2007

C6.7.4.2.2. (Added) Coordinates maintenance requirements; both scheduled and out-of cycle
with CE. Provides operator maintenance and routine housekeeping for the equipment and rooms
containing the equipment as well as around the collection bins. This includes, but is not limited
to regular sweeping, dusting, and cleaning plus emptying the dust collector chamber.

C6.7.4.2.3. (Added) Provides manpower to operate the Curtis LeMay Building facility
equipment and perform destruction services for classified and sensitive unclassified holdings.

C6.7.4.2.4. (Added) Maintains a historical accounting of all entries and exits from the Curtis
LeMay Building CDF facility according to standard records and disposition schedules.

C6.7.4.2.5. (Added) Maintains scheduling authority for customers consistent with category, time
sensitivity, and volume of holdings.

C6.7.4.2.6. (Added) Ensures that required environmental, security and safety reviews are
conducted by the applicable agency and are available for audit and review according to
authorized records retention standards.

C6.7.4.2.7. (Added) Provides necessary safety equipment to agency personnel using the facility
to comply with OSHA standards.

C6.7.4.2.8. (Added) Performs minor and routine maintenance on the equipment within vendor
and CE restrictions.

C6.7.4.2.9. (Added) Reports time allocations dedicated to destruction of SCI holdings to the
USSTRATCOM security cognizance authority.

C6.7.4.3. (Added) 55th Civil Engineer Squadron.

C6.7.4.3.1. (Added) Provides oversight of environmental compliance with processes consistent
with Federal, State, United States Air Force, and local laws and regulations.

C6.7.4.4. (Added) All agencies and organizations.

C6.7.4.4.1. (Added) Maintain responsibility for storage of classified holdings until destruction
action occurs. The CDF is not an authorized storage facility for classified holdings.

C6.7.4.4.2. (Added) Designate single points of contact for agency requirements regarding
scheduling record holdings destruction issues for classified records. Designations must be in
writing and forwarded to the CDF manager (55 CS/SCSD/Curtis LeMay Building, Stop Code
5100). See attachment 3 for sample memorandum format. Ensure that updates and discontinued
service needs notifications are promptly forwarded to the CDF manager. (Note: Memorandums
are not required if an organization does not require the use of the facility and its services).

C6.7.4.4.3. (Added) Bring agreed upon volume of unclassified and/or classified holdings to the
CDF and provide witnesses for document destruction when circumstances warrant.
DOD5200.1-R_OAFBSUP1, 1 JANUARY 2007                                                     5

Specific guidance on witnessing document destruction is contained in AFI 31-401, Information
Security Program Management, and Strategic Command Instruction (SI) 321-14, Control,
Storage, Dissemination, and Destruction of SCI and Collateral Material Within SCIFs..

C6.7.4.4.4. (Added) Identify classified and sensitive unclassified document destruction holdings
needs to the CDF manager. Determine estimated volume and material types before making
appointments.

C6.7.4.4.5. (Added) Ensure scheduled use times of the facility are met. Contact the CDF
manager when scheduled appointments are no longer required or cannot be met to afford other
organizations opportunities for use. Organizations failing to accomplish this action will have no-
show actions recorded and notification made to the applicable management authority.

C6.7.4.4.6. (Added) Comply with administrative, procedural, safety, and security requirements
outlined in this instruction and other doctrine regarding destruction of unclassified and classified
holdings.

C6.7.4.4.7. (Added) Ensure that document and record holdings being prepared for destruction
are void of documents or records defined as personal papers (i.e., personal checks, bills, or
similar media that is not part of an official government record keeping system).

C6.7.5. (Added) Facility Security. One person assigned to the CDF must be present in the vault
area whenever the intrusion alarm system is in the “day” mode. Two personnel, one of which
may be a CDF employee, must be present when Top Secret holdings are present. Two persons,
one of which may be a CDF employee, must be present when SCI holdings are present. Only
appropriately cleared personnel delivering or witnessing destruction of their material will be
admitted to the CDF during SCI and other special access required (SAR) destruction periods.
Unauthorized entry into the facility is punishable under the Uniform Code of Military Justice,
and applicable civilian personnel established policies.

C6.7.5.1. (Added) Security incidents and compromises for classified record holdings will be
reported through the local security manager to the applicable security management authority.

C6.7.6. (Added) Records Eligible for Destruction through the Central Destruction Facility.

C6.7.6.1. (Added) The CDF provides the means to destroy eligible classified and sensitive
unclassified materials defined in DoD 5105.21.M-1, DOD 5200.1-R and AFI 31-401 using a
disintegration process.

C6.7.6.2. (Added) The CDF destroys SCI, COMSEC, CNWDI and other SAP material in the
presence of witnesses from the office of primary responsibility (OPR). Special category
classified holdings that have time sensitive destruction requirements identified in governing
policy will have priority over other destruction services. Properly cleared persons, as appointed
by the agency, must deliver SAP material to the CDF and remain with the classified holdings
until the destruction process is complete.
6                                             DOD5200.1-R_OAFBSUP1, 1 JANUARY 2007

C6.7.6.3. (Added) Classified holdings of specialized construction such as carbon paper, tapes,
acetate overlays, overhead transparencies, photographs and similar materials are eligible for
destruction. The agency should advise the CDF when making an appointment of the requirement
to destroy these types of materials because of the time factor involved in their destruction.
Charts and maps constructed of specialized material such as laminate coating or nylon
interweaving cannot be processed for destruction by the CDF due to the adverse effect they have
on the equipment’s life cycle and the potential for non-standard residue in meeting security
destruction compliance. Organizations possessing charts and maps constructed of specialized
material must find alternative sources for their destruction. Charts and maps constructed of pure
paper can be destroyed in the Central Destruction Facility providing the organization tears the
charts/maps into pieces 15 inches by 15 inches before presenting them for destruction.

C6.7.6.3.1. (Added) Cloth ribbons and media with adhesive properties such as gum labels can
stick to equipment cutting instruments resulting in non-standard residue for security compliance
and could produce potential equipment problems. Organizations must find alternative
destruction methods for these types of materials.

C6.7.6.3.2. (Added) Materials Not Eligible for Destruction. Materials such as container
wrappings, newspapers, razor blades, food residue, food containers, tissue paper, floor
sweepings, discarded office materials (pens, pencils, and similar items), aerosol cans, computer
hardware devices, and any other objects that could pose a risk for harm or injury to CDF
equipment or personnel will not be mixed in with eligible record holdings. Violations of this
paragraph are subject to Occupational Safety and Health Administration and/or military
administrative actions. CDF employees are authorized and will perform detailed pre-inspections
of material to determine compliance with this criterion. Personnel are not authorized to destroy
personal documents such as bills, checks, or similar documents because of the risk of identity
theft or other unauthorized disclosure actions.

C6.7.6.4. (Added) The National Security Agency (NSA) has determined that the current
disintegrator equipment, when used for the destruction of plastics, does not meet NSA equipment
security standards for proper destruction. Agencies governed by NSA destruction guidelines
must ship plastics directly to NSA. Check with your unit security manager about policies
concerning destruction of plastics. USSTRACOM activities will consult with J2113 and J050
regarding plastics destruction.

C6.7.6.5. (Added) Destruction of CD-ROM Media. USSTRATCOM destroys their CD-ROM
media with specialized equipment. USSTRATCOM directorates should contact the J226-IA for
assistance in destroying CD-ROM disks. The CDF cannot destroy CD-ROM disks.
Organizations should follow local security procedures. 55th Wing and tenant organizations
should check with their Security Manager regarding CD-ROM media destruction procedures.

C6.7.7. (Added) Preparation of Classified Record Holdings for Destruction. See Attachments 1
and 2.
DOD5200.1-R_OAFBSUP1, 1 JANUARY 2007                                                        7

C6.7.8. (Added) Classified Holdings Check-In Procedures and Policy for the Curtis LeMay
Building facility.

C6.7.8.1. (Added) Only qualified personnel assigned to the CDF will operate the destruction
equipment. This includes placement of the classified holdings onto the equipment. Agency
witnessing officials may assist in the opening of the containers to facilitate quicker placement of
materials onto the destruction equipment.

C6.7.8.2. (Added) Agency personnel using the Curtis LeMay document destruction facility will
complete the CDF sign-in log upon entry and exit from the facility. Visitors not performing
delivery or destruction actions will also complete the sign-in log. There are no exceptions to this
requirement.

C6.7.8.3. (Added) Agencies will have their classified holdings weighed upon sign-in prior to
destroying any of the holdings. The CDF uses metric weight information to provide facility
usage and volume destruction statistics to USSTRATCOM and 55th Communications Squadron
management authorities.

C6.7.8.4. (Added) CDF personnel will inspect material delivered to the CDF in the presence of
the personnel accomplishing delivery and destruction actions. Improperly marked, packaged or
prepared material or anything deemed unsafe to operators or equipment may be rejected from
further processing until discrepancy (ies) is/are corrected.

C6.7.9. (Added) Securing Destruction Equipment. Agency witnessing personnel should perform
a post check of the classified destruction facility around the destruction device(s) to ensure no
materials remain outside the destruction device(s) or area.

C6.7.10. (Added) Accountability Termination. An agency’s accountability for material ends
when CDF destruction actions are complete. Both parties will annotate applicable destruction
documents when warranted.

C6.7.11. (Added) Event Driven Destruction Requirements. Circumstances or events such as a
directed security container cleanout day, office relocations, reorganization of functions, mission
changes, and real world occurrences create situations where out-of-cycle large volume
destruction support services are required. For scheduled and planned events/circumstances, the
organization(s) requiring destruction services should contact the CDF manager at least one week
in advance to schedule required services.

C6.7.12. (Added) Additional Information About CDF Services. CDF contact number is
294-4420. Voice mail is also available for inquiry and scheduling needs.
8                                           DOD5200.1-R_OAFBSUP1, 1 JANUARY 2007

C6.7.13. (Added) Contractor Compliance. Agencies, organizations, and offices which have been
outsourced to a commercial contractor must follow the provisions of this publication for the
destruction of government owned classified records required to be maintained according to the
applicable records management clause cited from the Federal Acquisition Regulation. Internal
contractor records will be destroyed according to the owner’s corporate policy.

C6.7.14. (Added) Equipment Outage. When destruction equipment is inoperable, CDF
personnel will inform agencies to suspend appointment times for document destruction until
equipment is operational. Significant downtime, which impacts on security of classified record
holdings, will result in the 55th Communications Squadron Privacy Act Office making
arrangements for use of an alternate site to perform destruction actions.

C6.7.14.1. (Added) Emergency Planning. The CDF maintains a contingency plan in the event
the CDF becomes inoperable for a prolonged period. Organizations should also follow local
security procedures for emergency destruction actions.




OFFICIAL                                           JONATHAN D. GEORGE
                                                   Brigadier General, USAF
                                                   Commander, 55th Wing

Attachments: 3
Attachment 1: Preparation of Classified Record Holdings for Destruction
Attachment 2: Proper Container Marking
Attachment 3: Sample Memorandum for Designating Classified Holding Destruction Personnel
DOD5200.1-R_OAFBSUP1, 1 JANUARY 2007                                                       9

                                          Attachment 1

    PREPARATION OF CLASSIFIED RECORD HOLDINGS FOR DESTRUCTION

General Information. Prior to delivery action of classified holdings to CDF, agencies and
organizations must ensure that proper pre-destruction actions are taken. This will ensure that
administrative, safety, and security requirements are met and will provide the agency the
optimum use of its scheduled time.

Estimate the amount of classified record holdings to be destroyed. This is important, as the
allotted time given for an appointment at the Central Destruction Facility is dependent on the
volume of materials to be destroyed. Failure to provide an accurate assessment of materials
requiring destruction may result in incomplete destruction services being performed.

Inventory classified material per requirements shown in DOD 5200.1-R. For planning purposes,
a maximum of 15 bags or 10 bond paper size boxes may be destroyed during scheduled 30-
minute appointment window. If additional time is needed, the CDF Facility Manager will
schedule additional appointment times to complete destruction.

Remove individual documents from folders or other storage/protection devices. Folders should
be torn in half to allow for proper insertion into destruction equipment

Separate items unique in size, shape or material composition.

Segregate classified holdings by category (i.e., SCI, COMSEC, and other SAP material). Place
each category of classified documents in appropriately marked bags, bundles or containers.
Material should be loosely placed in containers not to exceed 30 pounds per container. Mark
containers with the highest classification of material they contain. If the container contains SCI
material, the classification may be abbreviated (TS, S, and annotated “SCI”). Also, place the
agency’s functional address symbol and telephone number on top of the container. Stamp, print
or write markings clearly and place the marking so they are easily seen when containers are
stacked. See Attachment 2 for proper marking of containers.

Sort computer printouts and other voluminous holdings according to size. Place computer
printouts, publications, reports, files, etc., in stacks or containers not to exceed 30 pounds per
container and one quarter inch (1/4”) in thickness. Make sure bound books and similar
publications are torn apart before delivery to the destruction facility. Do not mix with crumpled
paper.

Remove any materials that bind documents together such as large heavy duty staples, metal
fasteners, paper clips, and similar devices to prevent possible damage to the equipment. Small
staples are acceptable providing the thickness of the documents does not exceed three quarters of
an inch.
10                                            DOD5200.1-R_OAFBSUP1, 1 JANUARY 2007

                                      Attachment 1 (Cont)

     PREPARATION OF CLASSIFIED RECORD HOLDINGS FOR DESTRUCTION

Mark bags or containers having Top Secret material and prepare container (not document)
receipts according to instructions shown in DoD 5200.1-R.

Secure the top of the bag with a minimum amount of tape or staples to prevent accidental
spillage.

Place small quantities of material in appropriately marked, sealed envelopes.

Complete applicable accountability paperwork, if destruction certificates are required. Ensure
that any other documents that pertain to the classified holdings (registers, logs, etc.) are also
completed.
       ADP PUNCH CARDS             BAGGED CRUMPLED SHEETS OF PAPER



ORGANIZATION, FUNCTIONAL ADDRESS   ORGANIZATION, FUNCTIONAL ADDRESS
SYMBOL, AND TELEPHONE NUMBER       SYMBOL, AND TELEPHONE NUMBER


   NOTATION OR INSTRUCTIONS           SECURITY CLASSIFICATION

                                                   TAPE (MINIMUM AMOUNT)
      SECURITY CLASSIFICATION




           TOP SECRET
                                                                                                                     DOD5200.1-R_OAFBSUP1, 1 JANUARY 2007




              (SCI)                                SECRET
                                                                                                      Attachment 2




           55 MDSS/CC
              294-
              5893                              20 IS/CC
                                                294-
                                                4833
                                                                           PROPER CONTAINER MARKING




                                                TOP VIEW




        SINGLE STRIP OF TAPE
                                                                                                                     11




                                         TAPE              STAPLES
                                                                                                                       12




COMPUTER PRINT-OUT (STACKED)              BOXED MATERIAL


ORGANIZATION, FUNCTIONAL ADDRESS   ORGANIZATION, FUNCTIONAL ADDRESS
 SYMBOL, AND TELEPHONE NUMBER       SYMBOL, AND TELEPHONE NUMBER




 SECURITY CLASSIFICATION              SECURITY CLASSIFICATION




        TOP SECRET (SIOP ESI)              TOP SECRET (SIOP ESI)

    55 MDSS/CC                          USSTRATCOM/J26
      294-5893                                  29 4-5893
                                                                                                 Attachment 2 (Cont)

                                                                      PROPER CONTAINER MARKING




                                        SINGLE STRIP OF TAPE
  SINGLE STRIP OF TAPE OR CORD
    AROUND WIDTH AND GIRTH
                                                                                                                       DOD5200.1-R_OAFBSUP1, 1 JANUARY 2007
DOD5200.1-R_OAFBSUP1, 1 JANUARY 2007                                                 13

                                         Attachment 3

             SAMPLE MEMORANDUM FOR DESIGNATING CLASSIFIED
                    HOLDING DESTRUCTION PERSONNEL


MEMORANDUM FOR 55 CS/SCSD (BLDG 500)
               STOP CODE 5100

FROM: UNIT ORGANIZATION AND STOP CODE

SUBJECT: Points of Contact for Destruction of Classified Holdings

1. The following individuals are designated as agency points of contact:

       NAME                  RANK           OFFICE SYMBOL                  OFFICE PHONE

2. This memorandum supersedes all previous memorandums from this agency, same subject.




                                     DIVISION CHIEF OR EQUIVILENT SIGNATURE




**NOTE: DOCUMENT VERIFICATION, FLOW, DISTRIBUTION, AND RETENTION
SHOULD BE FOLLOWED USING USSTRATCOM GUIDELINES
