BY ORDER OF THE                                                     DOD5400.7-R_AFMAN 33-302
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                  21 October 2010
                                                              Incorporating Change 1, 24 April 2012

                                                  AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING COMMAND
                                                                              Supplement
                                                                              10 FEBRUARY 2014

                                                                  Communications and Information


                                                FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT PROGRAM

                COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY


ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/A6PP                                             Certified by: SAF/A6P (Mr. Bobby Smart)

Supersedes: DOD 5400.7-R_AF SUP, 24 June 2002                                           Pages: 143

                                              (AETC)
OPR: AETC CSS/SCOK                             Certified by: HQ AETC/A6 (Col Mona Lisa D. Tucker)
                                                                                      Pages: 10


 This Air Force Manual (AFMAN) implements DoD Regulation 5400.7-R, DoD Freedom of
Information Act Program, and Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-3, Air Force Information
Management. It applies to the Air Force, Air Force Reserves, Air National Guard, and Civil Air
Patrol. In the case of a conflict, this AFMAN takes precedence over any Air Force publication
that addresses disclosure of Air Force records to the public. Commands may not change the basic
procedures in this AFMAN. Use of the term ―MAJCOM‖ throughout this AFMAN includes
MAJCOMs, FOAs, and DRUs. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. This AFMAN
requires the collection of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. The authority to
collect this information is contained in the Air Force Privacy System of Records Notices F033 AF
A, Information Request-Freedom of Information Act and Title 10, United States Code, Section
8013, and the Personnel Data System (PDS), also applies. Additionally, if the publication
generates a report(s), alerts readers in a statement and cites all applicable Reports Control
Numbers (RCN) in accordance with AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports
 Management Program; Controlling Internal, Public and Interagency Air Force Information
 collections. Refer recommended changes or comments to AF Network Integration Center,
 Commander‘s Support Staff Help Desk (AFNIC/CCQI ), 203 W. Losey Street, Room 1004, Scott
 AFB IL 62225-5222, through appropriate channels, using AF Form 847, Recommendation for
 Change of Publication, with an information copy to SAF/A6PP.

 (AETC) This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-
302 and DoD 5400.7-R, DoD Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Program. This supplement
describes AETC’s procedures for use in conjunction with the basic regulation and applies to all HQ
AETC and subordinate units. This supplement does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) or Air National Guard (ANG) units. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation
for Changes of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s
chain of command. This supplement requires collecting and maintaining information protected by
the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 5 U.S.C. 552 and 10 U.S.C. 8013. System of Records notice
F033 AF A, Information Requests-Freedom of Information Act applies. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Information System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

 SUMMARY OF CHANGES

 This interim change implements new guidance involving the redaction of another agency‘s equities
 contained in Air Force classified documents in order to reduce the Air Force FOIA backlog.
 Guidance is also added concerning the FOIA managers attendance at the SAF/A6PP Annual
 FOIA Information Access Professional (IAP) Workshop when the workshop is approved. A
 paragraph was added for consistency to bring the DoD Names Policy in line with current
 guidance set forth in the revision to AFI 33-332. Guidance is also added to reflect submitters will
 be given a total of 10 working days to object to release and provide justification for withholding
 the documents.

 A margin bar (|) indicates newly revised material.

 (AETC) This publication has been substantially changed and must be completely reviewed. It
 directs use of FOIAXpress (C1.3.2., C1.5.4.7.14., C1.5.9.); changes the initial denial authority
 (IDA) designations to include host Wing and Vice Wing Equivalent Commanders and HQ
 AETC/IGQ and confirms HQ AETC/A6 will continue to act as the IDA for appeals not granted
 (C1.4.6.1.); adds requirement to appoint base FOIA managers in writing (C1.5.4.3.1.); adds
 information about significant FOIAs (C1.4.3.5.); adds requirement for backlog reporting
 (C1.5.4.7.1.22.), changes the processing requirements for IG records across the command
 (C1.5.4.7.1.23.); adds information on preparing appeals for AFLOA/JACL review (C1.5.4.7.2.,
 Appendix 13); directs Wing commanders to ensure only the FOIA key players (FOIA managers,
 OPRs, legal office, and IDAs are involved with the coordination and review of FOIA actions
 (C1.5.4.5.4.), and adds requirement to document why discretionary release was not made when
 the exemption allows for it (C5.1.6.).
                                          FOREWORD

This Regulation is reissued under the authority of DoD Directive 5400.7, ―DoD Freedom of
Information Act Program,‖ September 29, 1997. It provides guidance on the implementation of
the Freedom of Information Act, as amended by the ―Electronic Freedom of Information Act
Amendments of 1996.‖ The changes, since the last printing in May 1997, are indicated by italics.
This Regulation applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), the Military Departments,
the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Inspector General of the
Department of Defense (IG, DoD), the Defense Agencies, and the DoD Field Activities (hereafter
referred to collectively as ―the DoD Components‖). This Regulation is effective immediately; it is
mandatory for use by all the DoD Components.

Heads of DoD Components may elect to issue supplementary instructions deemed essential to the
accommodation of perceived requirements peculiar to respective DoD Components. Any such
instruction may not conflict with the provisions of this Regulation. Copies of DoD Components‘
supplementary instruction shall be forwarded to the below address for review within 120 days of
the date of this Regulation.

Recommendations for amendments shall be forwarded through appropriate channels to the
Director, Freedom of Information and Security Review, who is authorized to approve and issue
amendments to this Regulation. Address recommendations to: Director, Freedom of Information
and Security Review, Room 2C757, 1155 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301-1155. The
DoD Components may obtain copies of this Regulation through their own publications channels.
Approved for public release; distribution unlimited. Authorized registered users may obtain
copies of this Regulation from the Defense Technical Information Center, 8725 John J. Kingman
Road, Suite 0944, Ft. Belvoir, VA 22060-6218. Other Federal Agencies and the public may obtain
copies from the U.S. Department of Commerce, National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port
Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161. Copies may also be obtained from the World Wide Web at the
following address: http://www.defenselink.mil/pubs/foi/.



                                                 D. O. COOKE
                                                 Director
                                                 Administration and Management


                                                 WILLIAM T. LORD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                                 Chief of Warfighting Integration and
                                                  Chief Information Officer


                                                 MONA LISA D. TUCKER, Colonel, USAF
                                                 Director of Communications
C1.3.2. (AETC) Base FOIA managers will use the FOIAXpress (hereinafter referred to as eFOIA)
tracking program. The AETC FOIA manager will request an eFOIA account for base FOIA managers
after receiving the FOIA manager’s appointment memo.
C1.4.3. (AETC) Fee issues (requester category, willingness to pay, fee waivers) must be resolved and a
postal mailing address must be provided before a request can be perfected in eFOIA. If fee issues are not
resolved within 10 days of receipt of the initial request, close the FOIA and advise the requester to
resubmit the request.
C1.4.3.5. (Added)(AETC) Significant FOIAs:
C1.4.3.5.1. (Added)(AETC) Definition. DoD defines a “significant” FOIA as one (simple or complex)
where, in the Component’s judgment, the subject matter of the released documents may generate media
interest and/or may be of interest or potential interest to DoD senior leadership. Any requests involving
the President/current administration, previous administrations, Members of Congress (correspondence,
travel, or otherwise), or current or previous DoD leadership would be included. AF defines a significant
FOIA as one that has or will have high-level interest and attention.
C1.4.3.5.2. (Added)(AETC) Making the Determination:
C1.4.3.5.2.1. (Added)(AETC) The significance of a FOIA request must be determined on a case-by-case
basis. In most cases, AF will determine when a FOIA is significant. In others, the decision may be
appropriate at the Command level. Anyone involved in the process may recommend a FOIA be processed
as significant.
C1.4.3.5.2.2. (Added)(AETC) The base FOIA manager will identify the FOIA as potentially significant
when it is initially received. A decision as to the FOIA’s significant status is based on the FOIA
manager’s assessment after he/she has consulted with base wing commander, legal, and public affairs
offices.
C1.4.3.5.2.3. (Added)(AETC) The base FOIA manager will advise the AETC FOIA manager as soon as
possible of the potentially significant status, and the AETC FOIA manager will elevate the final decision
to the appropriate level.
C1.4.3.5.3. (Added)(AETC) Processing:
C1.4.3.5.3.1. (Added)(AETC) Process the FOIA according to the basic instruction as supplemented by AF
and AETC. Incorporate any additional AF requirements, i.e., review/coordination/signatures, resulting
from the significant status.
C1.4.3.5.3.2. (Added)(AETC) Update requester in writing as necessary when timelines cannot be met.
Upload this documentation into eFOIA.
C1.4.3.5.4. (Added)(AETC) Reporting Procedures. Report the following information on significant
FOIAs weekly to the AETC FOIA/PA Workflow NLT Thursday/1400:
C1.4.3.5.4.1. (Added)(AETC) Total number being processed.
C1.4.3.5.4.2. (Added)(AETC) Status of each.
C1.4.3.5.4.3. (Added)(AETC) Estimated completion date.
C1.4.3.5.4.4. (Added)(AETC) An example of a checklist for processing significant FOIAs is provided on
the AETC FOIA web site.
C1.4.6.1. (Added)(AF)(AETC) AETC host Wing and Vice Wing equivalent commanders, and the HQ
AETC/IGQ are appointed AETC FOIA IDAs. Tenant units operating on AETC bases will follow FOIA
procedures prescribed by their owning MAJCOM. HQ AETC/A6 will continue to serve as the IDA for
appeals not granted.
C1.4.7. (Added)(AF)(AETC) Contractors will not act as OPRs for FOIA requests. The Chief, Contracting
Officer’s Representative (COR) for the contracted function is designated OPR for records identified as
responsive to a FOIA request within their area of responsibility. Contractors may act as subject matter
experts to the COR in completing OPR duties in paragraph C1.5.4.6. of the basic directive but cannot sign
or approve disclosure of records.
C1.5.4.3.1. (Added)(AETC) Host base Wing Commanders will appoint a base FOIA Manager in writing to
manage the FOIA program within their wing. The minimum recommended grade for the FOIA Manager is
a GS-09 or MSgt (7-level). The appointment memo consisting of the appointee’s name, office symbol,
DSN/Comm phone numbers and email address shall be provided to the AETC FOIA manager at AETC
FOIA/PA Workflow.
C1.5.4.4. (Added)(AF)(AETC) The host wing staff judge advocate will review and coordinate on all
FOIA requests, to include “no records” responses. HQ AETC/JA will review and coordinate on all
AETC/IG FOIA requests, to include “no record” responses, and will review and coordinate on all FOIA
appeals not granted by the base and records owned by HQ AETC organizations, including “no records”
responses.
C1.5.4.5.4. (Added)(AF)(AETC) Wing commanders will ensure only the FOIA key players (FOIA
managers, OPRs, legal office, and IDAs) are involved with the coordination and review of FOIA actions.
C1.5.4.7. (Added)(AF)(AETC) Base FOIA managers will (1) process all initial FOIA requests for base
records and (2) perform all other actions as prescribed in paragraphs 1.5.4.7.1. through 1.5.4.7.22. and as
supplemented below. Joint Base-San Antonio (JBSA) will process initial requests for Lackland and
Randolph AFBs, to include HQ AETC directorates, special staff offices, and most tenant organizations.
HQ AETC will process all FOIA appeals.
C1.5.4.7.1.7. (Added)(AF)(AETC) Base FOIA managers will train FOIA monitors and OPRs as needed.
C1.5.4.7.1.9. (Added)(AF)(AETC) HQ AETC will perform periodic program reviews of each FOIA
program at least annually using FOIA documentation in eFOIA.
C1.5.4.7.1.14. (Added)(AF)(AETC) Base FOIA managers will review the eFOIA database annually NLT
10 October each year to ensure accuracy for compiling annual FOIA report. Notify the AETC FOIA
manager when completed.
C1.5.4.7.1.15. (Added)(AF)(AETC) Base FOIA managers will ensure when an OPR provides a “no
records” response that he/she provides documentation about where he/she searched (official records drive,
shared drives, file cabinets) and, if electronic, what key words he/she used in the search.
C1.5.4.7.1.22. (Added)(AF)(AETC) Each base FOIA manager with a backlog will provide a monthly
status report to the AETC FOIA manager NLT the 15th day of each month to explain their progress toward
meeting the 10 percent goal for reduction of the backlog.
C1.5.4.7.1.23. (Added)(AETC) HQ AETC/IGQ is the release authority for requests for IG records
maintained AETC-wide. Refer FOIA requests for all IG records to the JBSA FOIA Office through
eFOIA. Prior to acceptance of the FOIA, HQ AETC/IGQ will perform a cursory review of the request to
confirm that HQ AETC/IGQ is the appropriate office to handle the request.
C1.5.4.7.2. (Added)(AF)(AETC) Base FOIA managers will prepare all FOIA appeals according to
paragraph AP9.5. and as further defined in AFLOA/JA guidance at Appendix 13.
C1.5.4.7.2.5. (Added)(AF)(AETC) OPR will provide written confirmation that a second search was
conducted. Include where search was conducted (for example, records staging area, general office files,
shared drives, as well as all key words used in the search).
C1.5.4.8. (Added)(AF)(AETC) The functional area records manager is designated the FOIA monitor for
his/her unit.
C1.5.6.2. (Added)(AF)(AETC) The foreign disclosure office (FDO) for HQ AETC is HQ AETC/IA.
Luke and Maxwell AFBs should refer requests from foreign officials to the FDO located on their
respective bases.
C1.5.8. (AETC) Respond to questions in a FOIA request only when documents exist that would satisfy the
requester’s questions or creating a new record would be a more useful response to the requester and less
burdensome for the agency than providing existing records.
C1.5.9. (AETC) Note: A FOIA can be placed on hold only once in eFOIA in order to clarify the request.
This is done using the “stop the clock” function.
C1.5.15. (AETC) Non-responsive information contained in responsive records is defined as paragraphs or
portions thereof within records identified as responsive. Entire documents determined to be non-
responsive should not be processed.
C2.1.1.2. (Added)(AF)(AETC) Each FOIA office will immediately notify the AETC FOIA manager of
any URL changes to its FOIA web site.
C3.2.1.4.10.4. (Added)(AF)(AETC) The base FOIA manager will submit the list of sensitive or routinely
deployable units to the AETC FOIA manager to arrive NLT the last workday of every January and July.
Prepare the report according to the guidance in paragraph C3.2.1.4.10.
C5.1.1. (AETC) Unclassified AETC course control documents (including course or specialty training
standards, course charts, plans of instruction, and syllabi of instruction) are not releasable to a requesting
agency without individual release authority from the OPR.
C5.1.6. (Added)(AETC) When an exemption allows for discretionary release, i.e., FOIA Exemptions 5, or
7(A)(B)(D) and (E), and the OPR chooses not to make a discretionary release, the OPR comments and the
legal opinion will detail why a discretionary release is not appropriate.
C5.2.1.4. (Added)(AF)(AETC) The disclosure authority signs the memorandum to the base FOIA manager
authorizing disclosure/nondisclosure of records requested under the FOIA. Within AETC, numbered Air
Force, wing, mission group, or support group commanders are authorized to disclose records to the public.
These individuals may further delegate this authority to a lower echelon. Note: According to AFI 91-204,
Safety Investigations and Reports, the disclosure authority for records concerning US Air Force mishaps is
HQ AFSC/JA. According to AFI 51-503, Aerospace Accident Investigations, the disclosure authority for
records involving AETC aircraft is HQ AETC/JA.
AP7.19. (Added)(AETC) NOTICE TO DELINQUENT REQUESTER AFTER 30 DAYS OF
NONPAYMENT
“Please be advised if we do not receive your payment within 30 days from the date of this letter, we will
begin charging an interest fee based on the current value of funds rate (CVFR) at
http://www.fms.treas.gov/cvfr/. Your account will be considered delinquent, and we will place you on the
delinquent list until we receive your payment in full. Additionally, while your account is in delinquent
status, we will not process future requests from you.”



AP9.1. (AETC) General. Additional processing checklists are available at the AETC FOIA web site.



                                (Added)(AF)(AETC) AP12. APPENDIX 12
               GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
COR—contracting officer’s representative
FDO—foreign disclosure office


                                  (Added)(AETC) AP13. APPENDIX 13
      SUPPLEMENTAL AFLOA INSTRUCTIONS ON PROCESSING APPEALS IN eFOIA

AP13.1. General Administrative Matters:
AP13.1.1. Classified Records:
AP13.1.1.1. If the responsive records are classified Confidential or Secret, send them separately to
AFLOA/JACL, 1500 W. Perimeter Road, Suite 1370, Joint Base-Andrews MD 20762.
AP13.1.1.2. If the responsive records have a higher classification, contact AFLOA/JACL before sending
the file.
AP13.1.2. Before notifying requester of referral to AFLOA/JACL:
AP13.1.2.1. Review case to ensure the appeal is properly tabbed or uploaded in eFOIA.
AP13.1.2.2. Link initial case to the appeal under "reference" field for record disposition purposes.
AFLOA/JACL will not search original case file for any documents.
AP13.1.2.3. Assign the case to the AFLOA/JACL queue for review. In most cases, AFLOA/JACL will
send a notification accepting transfer within 1-2 duty days.
AP13.1.2.4. After being notified that AFLOA/JACL has accepted, transfer case to the AFLOA/JACL
queue.
AP13.2. Set up the Appeal in eFOIA under the Correspondence tab as follows:
AP13.2.1. Transmittal Memorandum to AFLOA/JACL:
AP13.2.1.1. This is the letter forwarding the appeal for action by the Secretary of the Air Force Appellate
Authority. The letter should address the issue(s) raised in the appeal, especially in more complex appeals,
or provide any special instructions for records that are posted in eFOIA.
AP13.2.1.2. If any part of the requester's appeal is denied by the IDA, the appeal package must include a
statement by the IDA that he/she considered and rejected the requester's arguments, to include the
specific basis for that decision. If not included in the transmittal memorandum, the IDA statement may
be a separate memorandum or included as an endorsement on a legal opinion or on the OPR
recommendation.
AP13.2.1.3. The following statements are required in or with the memorandum to AFLOA/JACL:
AP13.2.1.3.1. A statement that the IDA considered and rejected the requester's arguments including the
basis for that decision. (Note: If there is no statement in the IDA’s transmittal memorandum to
AFLOA/JACL, then include a signed, written statement containing this information signed by the IDA
either as a separate document or as an endorsement to a legal or OPR recommendation, e.g., the IDA
concurs in the legal and/or OPR assessments of the requester's arguments.)
AP13.2.1.3.2. An explanation of the decision-making process for intra-agency documents denied under the
deliberative process privilege and how the denied material fits into that process (if applicable). Explain
why a discretionary release is not appropriate.
AP13.2.1.4. Ensure transmittal memorandum is signed and dated. It should include the name, telephone
number, and e-mail address of the person to contact about the appeal.
AP13.2.2. Notification to Requester of Transfer to AFLOA/JACL:
AP13.2.2.1. This is the letter notifying the requester the appeal has been forwarded to the Secretary of the
Air Force Appellate Authority via AFLOA/JACL.
AP13.2.2.2. Do not send the transfer notification to the requester until AFLOA/JACL has accepted
transfer of the appeal.
AP13.2.3. Tab 1- Appeal:
AP13.2.3.1. Include the appeal as submitted through the Public Access Link, by facsimile, or in paper
form.
AP13.2.3.2. If the appeal was submitted by facsimile, include the cover sheet, if one was sent. If the appeal
was submitted in paper form, include a copy of the envelope.
AP13.2.3.3. Any subsequent appeal documents, i.e., attachments to the appeal must also be included in
Tab 1.
AP13.2.3.4. Do not link the appeal to the tab, but copy the appeal documents and upload them under this
tab.
AP13.2.4. Tab 2- Initial Request:
AP13.2.4.1. Include the request as submitted through the Public Access Link, by facsimile, or in paper
form along with any modifications of the request by the requester in chronological order.
AP13.2.4.2. If the request or a modification was submitted by facsimile, include the cover sheet, if one
was sent. If the request or a modification was submitted in paper form, include a copy of the envelope.
AP13.2.4.3. Do not link the request to the tab, but copy the initial request and upload it the information
under the tab.
AP13.2.5. Tab 3 - Initial Response:
AP13.2.5.1. Include the response letter from the IDA or the FOIA manager on behalf of the IDA along
with any related correspondence specific to the response.
AP13.2.5.2. Do not link the appeal to the tab, but copy the initial response and upload it under this tab.
AP13.2.6. Tab 4 - Released Records:
AP13.2.6.1. All unclassified responsive records must be in Document Management, linked to the case
folder under the Actions tab and in the View Documents tab. By doing this, Tab 4 is no longer needed nor
is it required to be placed in the Correspondence tab.
AP13.2.6.2. Do not place released documents in the Correspondence tab of eFOIA.
AP13.2.6.3. Place responsive records in Document Management only once. If there are multiple review
layers in the records in Document Management, ensure that the layer containing the redactions in the copy
of the records released to the requester is clearly labeled.
AP13.2.6.4. Paper Records:
AP13.2.6.4.1. If a paper copy is submitted, copies of all records already released must be included under
Tab 4. (An index of released documents may be helpful, if there are a number of items.)
AP13.2.6.4.2. Do not send appeal files without copies of released records without the express agreement
of AFLOA/JACL. If a FOIA case is processed as a paper case, retain a copy in accordance with AFRIMS
Table 37-19, Rule 26 or 27, as applicable.
AP13.2.7. Tab 5 - Other Documents:
AP13.2.7.1. All documentation not placed under Tabs 1 through 4, 6 and 7 should be placed here.
AP13.2.7.2. Unless there is a specific need to separate the documents under this tab, consolidate and
upload them in a single file. If not, identify them using the following naming convention: Tab 5.1 - Email
to requester, 15 Apr 20xxx; Tab 5.2- Email from requester, 5 May 20xxx, etc. (Note: All documents
regarding a case, no matter how seemingly minor should be a part of the case file, including
correspondence between the FOIA manager and the requester or OPRs. Any follow-up phone calls should
be documented in the "Notes" tab and dated.)
AP13.2.8. Tab 6 - Unredacted Records:
AP13.2.8.1. All unclassified responsive records must be in Document Management, linked to the case
folder under the "Actions tab and in the View Documents tab. By doing this, Tab 6 is no longer needed
nor is it required to be placed in the Correspondence tab.
AP13.2.8.2. Do not place unredacted documents in the Correspondence tab of eFOIA. See Instructions
How to Add Documents in the attached.
AP13.2.8.3. Responsive records are placed in Document Management only once. The unredacted records
have no review layer(s) loaded.
AP13.2.8.4. Paper Records:
AP13.2.8.4.1. If a paper copy is submitted, clean, legible copies of all responsive records must be included
under Tab 6. (An index of released documents may be helpful, if there are a number of items). Bracketed
copies or copies with the redacted portions enclosed in a box generally would not be considered clean.
Copies highlighted to show redactions using a highlighter that "washes out" when copied normally would
be.
AP13.2.8.4.2. Do not send appeal files without copies of responsive records unless you have the express
agreement of AFLOA/JACL. If a FOIA case is processed as a paper case, retain a copy in accordance
with AFRIMS, Table 37-19, Rule 26 or 27, as applicable.
AP13.2.9. Tab 7- Legal Review(s): Place copies of all legal reviews in this tab in chronological order.
Normally, they should be consolidated and uploaded as a single file. If uploaded as separate files, identify
them using the following naming convention: Tab 7.1 - 999 Wing Legal Review, 10 Jan 20XX; Tab 7.2 -
999 Wing Legal Review, 15 May 20XX, etc.
