BY ORDER OF THE                                                        DODD 5105.83_AFPD90-19
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                7 DECEMBER 2011

                                                                                Special Management

                                 NATIONAL GUARD JOINT FORCE HEADQUARTERS – STATE
                                                                        (JFHQ-S)


                COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/MRR                                     Certified by: SAF/MRR (Mr. Daniel B. Ginsberg)

                                                                                           Pages: 17


This supplement implements the policy of Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5105.83, National
Guard Joint Force Headquarters – State (JFHQ-S), January 5, 2011. The DOD Directive is printed
word-for-word in regular type, without editorial review. Air Force supplementary material is
printed in boldface type and indicated by “(Added)(AF).” This supplement describes Air Force
responsibilities under the directive and establishes Air Force requirements to support National Guard
Joint Force Headquarters – State (JFHQ-S). This supplement applies to Headquarters Air Force
and the Air National Guard (ANG). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command.

.
DODI 5105.83_AFPD90-19 7 DECEMBER 2011                                                               2

                                                  Department of Defense
                                                      DIRECTIVE




                                                                                     NUMBER 5105.83
                                                                                       January 5, 2011

                                                                                               USD(P&R)

   SUBJECT: National Guard Joint Force Headquarters – State (NG JFHQs-State)

   References: See Enclosure 1


   1. PURPOSE. This Directive, in accordance with section 113 of title 10, United States Code
   (U.S.C.) (Reference (a)) and sections 104, 105, 109, 110, 325(a)(2), and 502(f) of title 32, U.S.C.
   (Reference (b)):
       a. Establishes policy for and defines the organization and management, responsibilities and
   functions, relationships, and authorities of the NG JFHQs-State.
       b. Establishes 54 NG JFHQs-State. (See Glossary for definition of “State.”)
       c. Describes the joint, interagency, and intergovernmental functions, responsibilities,
   authorities, and relationships among the NG JFHQs-State, the DoD Components, State and
   Federal civil authorities, and international programs.
       d. Establishes the Federal mission of the NG JFHQs-State.


   2. APPLICABILITY. This Directive applies to:
       a. OSD, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
   (CJCS) and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the
   Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other
   organizational entities within the Department of Defense (referred to collectively as the “DoD
   Components”).
       b. The Adjutants General of the States, except that:
          (1) Nothing in this Directive shall be construed as a limitation on the authority of the
   Governor of a State to employ any unit of the NG of that State, when such unit is not on active
   duty or in Federal service, to perform functions authorized by the laws of the State concerned
   and those of the United States.
3                                            DODI 5105.83_AFPD90-19 7 DECEMBER 2011


        (2) Nothing in this Directive shall be construed as a limitation on the authority of the
Governor of a State to authorize the Adjutant General of that State to form, task, or organize the
National Guard of that State, when the National Guard of that State is not on active duty or in
Federal service. Nothing in this Directive shall be construed as applicable to the defense forces
of a State.

3. DEFINITIONS. See Glossary.

4. POLICY. It is DoD policy that:

    a. There shall be 54 NG JFHQs-State, one established in each State (as defined in the
Glossary), composed of the NG leadership of that State, to support the Federal missions in
Enclosure 2 and State missions when appropriate.

    b. The National Guard Bureau (NGB) shall facilitate coordination between DoD
Components, NG JFHQ-State, and the NG of the several States to enhance unity of effort. (See
Glossary for definitions.)

5. FEDERAL MISSION. See Enclosure 2.

6. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT. See Enclosure 3.

7. RESPONSIBILITIES. See Enclosure 4.

8. RELATIONSHIPS. See Enclosure 5.

9. AUTHORITIES. The NG JFHQs-State may issue State regulations on NG matters pertaining
to their respective States consistent with State and U.S. laws and DoD, CJCS, Departments of the
Army and the Air Force, and NGB policies, regulations, instructions, and directives.

10. ADMINISTRATION

    a. Initial NG JFHQs-State billets shall come from the existing approved Table of
Distribution and Allowances authorizations for the Army National Guard (ARNG), and the Unit
Manning Document authorizations for the Air National Guard (ANG), of the headquarters of
each State. The State Adjutant General shall originate or request any new billet requirements
through NGB. NGB shall insure that the request is processed in accordance with applicable joint
DODI 5105.83_AFPD90-19 7 DECEMBER 2011                                                            4


manpower directives. NGB shall then coordinate approved changes with the Department of the
Army or the Air Force and with the Joint Staff.

    b. Service members assigned to OSD-approved billets in the joint staff elements of the NG
JFHQs-State may receive Defense awards in accordance with DoD 1348.33-M (Reference (c)).
Personnel in approved billets in the joint staff elements of the NG JFHQs-State may be eligible
to become Joint Qualified Officers in accordance with DoD Instruction 1300.19 (Reference (d)).


 11. RELEASABILITY. UNLIMITED. This Directive is approved for public release and is
available on the Internet from the DoD Issuances Website at http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives.


12. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Directive is effective upon its publication to the DoD Issuances
Website.




                                                 MICHAEL DONELY
                                                 Secretary of the Air Force

Enclosures
   1. References
   2. Federal Mission
   3. Organization and Management
   4. Responsibilities
   5. Relationships
   Glossary
5                                                  DODI 5105.83_AFPD90-19 7 DECEMBER 2011




                                                 ENCLOSURE 1

                                                 REFERENCES


    (a) Sections 101, 113, 10501-10503, 12211, and 12212 of title 10, United States Code
    (b) Sections 104, 105, 109, 110, 325(a)(2), and 502(f) of title 32, United States Code
    (c) DoD 1348.33-M, “Manual of Military Decorations and Awards,” November 23, 2010
    (d) DoD Instruction 1300.19, “DoD Joint Officer Management Program,” October 31, 2007
    (e) DoD Directive 7730.65, “Department of Defense Readiness Reporting System (DRRS),”
        June 3, 2002
    (f) Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness Memorandum, “Defense
        Readiness Reporting System (DRRS) Interim Implementation Guidance, Serial 4.0,”
        August 23, 2006 1
    (g) Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction 1001.01, “Joint Staff Manpower and
        Personnel Program,” December 28, 2004
    (h) DoD Directive 5105.77, “National Guard Bureau (NGB),” May 21, 2008
    (i) DoD Instruction 5025.01, “DoD Directives Program,” October 28, 2007




                                     1




    'Available upon request from the Readiness Office, USD(P&R), OSD
                                                                             ENCLOSURE 1
DODI 5105.83_AFPD90-19 7 DECEMBER 2011                                                               6



                                          ENCLOSURE 2

                                       FEDERAL MISSION

The NG JFHQs-State shall:

    a. Maintain, through their ARNG and ANG staff elements, trained and equipped ARNG and
ANG forces to serve in their role as the NG, and as the Army and Air National Guard of the
United States pursuant to the policies of and as resourced by the Secretaries of the Army and the
Air Force, to perform missions as authorized by Federal authorities.

   b. Provide command and control of all ARNG and ANG forces of their respective States.

    c. In accordance with policies and procedures established by the Secretary of Defense and
the Secretaries of the Army and the Air Force, be prepared to provide one or more JTF command
elements (or to serve as component elements of (larger) JTFs that might be established by proper
authority) able to exercise command and control of military forces to execute assigned missions.

   d. Provide expertise and situational awareness to DoD authorities to facilitate integration of
Federal and State-level activities.

    e. Develop plans, coordinated with appropriate authorities, that augment, support, or perform
assigned or authorized Federal missions.

    f. Provide a continuous point of contact for situational awareness. For domestic operations,
provide operational information, through NGB, to the Department of Defense and, through a
State JTF, to the commander of Federal military forces operating in their respective States to
ensure unity of effort.

   g. Maintain the capability to extend interoperable communications for command and control,
shared situational awareness, and unity of effort to a domestic incident site.

   h. Participate in Federal domestic preparedness planning, training, and exercises.

         (1) Develop plans to support civil authorities in response to man-made or natural
disasters, and coordinate these plans, through NGB and the Joint Staff, with appropriate
Combatant Commanders.

          (2) Coordinate, through the Chief, NGB, with appropriate Combatant Commanders to
integrate into joint training, contingency plans, and exercises, as appropriate. As directed by
their respective Governors, participate in State and regional preparedness planning, training, and
exercises.

   i. Report readiness capability in accordance with DoD Directive 7730.65 and Under
Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD (P&R)) Memorandum (References (e)
and (f)).


                                                                                    ENCLOSURE 2
7                                            DODI 5105.83_AFPD90-19 7 DECEMBER 2011

    j. As directed by their respective Governors and State Adjutants General, coordinate
planning, training, and execution of NG homeland defense, National Special Security Events,
defense support of civil authorities, and other domestic emergency missions within the United
States.




                                                                                 ENCLOSURE 2
DODI 5105.83_AFPD90-19 7 DECEMBER 2011                                                                8


                                            ENCLOSURE 3

                              ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT


Each NG JFHQ-State is organized to conduct operations in State active duty (SAD), Title 32, or
Title 10 status, and to render mutual support with title 10 forces operating within that State. Each
NG JFHQ-State shall operate under the command and control of the Governor when in SAD or
title 32 status. When in title 10 status, the NG JFHQs-State shall be under Federal command and
control.

  a. Each NG JFHQ-State shall be comprised of a joint staff element, ARNG staff element,
ANG staff element, and the personal staff and special staff of the State Adjutant General. The
NG JFHQs-State shall:

        (1) Coordinate planning, training, and execution of NG homeland defense, defense
support of civil authorities, and other domestic emergency missions within the United States.

         (2) Manage NG readiness in accordance with Reference (e) and prepare NG units for
mobilization for active Federal and State service consistent with applicable policies, regulations,
and instructions.

   b. The joint staff element of each NG JFHQ-State shall consist of the State Adjutant General
and the Office of the State Adjutant General; the Assistant Adjutant General, ARNG; the
Assistant Adjutant General, ANG; the Director of the NG JFHQ-State joint staff; and such
separate offices as may be prescribed by the State Adjutant General and established in joint
manpower documents. The joint staff element manpower shall be managed using joint
manpower documents in the same manner as manpower for joint activities in accordance with
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction 1001.01 (Reference (g)).

    c. The ARNG staff element shall consist of the Office of the Assistant Adjutant General,
ARNG; the Executive Office; and such operating divisions as may be prescribed by the State
Adjutant General for those matters pertaining to the ARNG as are established in the Army Table
of Distribution and Allowances for this element.

   d. The ANG staff element shall consist of the Office of the Assistant Adjutant General,
ANG; the Executive Office; and such operating divisions as may be prescribed by the State
Adjutant General for those matters pertaining to the ANG as are established in the Air Force Unit
Manning Document for this element.




                                                                                    ENCLOSURE 3
9                                             DODI 5105.83_AFPD90-19 7 DECEMBER 2011


                                          ENCLOSURE 4

                                       RESPONSIBILITIES


1. USD(P&R). The USD(P&R) shall:

    a. Oversee this Directive and incorporate changes and revisions, including those submitted
by NGB, in accordance with DoD Directive 5105.77 (Reference (h)) (including all State-initiated
changes, which must be submitted through NGB) in accordance with DoD Instruction 5025.01
(Reference (i)).

    b. Provide additional guidance relating to the NG JFHQs-State as necessary in accordance
with Reference (i).

    c. Monitor the readiness of the NG JFHQs-State and subordinate units in accordance with
References (e) and (f).

     d. Monitor the NG JFHQs-State and subordinate unit efforts to synchronize their training
policies with DoD training policy.


2. ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR RESERVE AFFAIRS (ASD(RA)). The
ASD(RA), under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(P&R), shall coordinate with
the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Homeland Defense and Americas’ Security Affairs
(ASD(HD&ASA)) in the development and implementation of DoD policy as set forth in
paragraphs 3.a. and 3.b. of this enclosure.


3. ASD(HD&ASA). The ASD(HD&ASA), under the authority, direction, and control of the
Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, shall:

     a. Develop, coordinate, and oversee the implementation of DoD policy for the participation
of the NG JFHQs-State in DoD activities when the Secretary of Defense determines such
participation is necessary and appropriate.

     b. Coordinate such matters with the Secretaries of the Army and the Air Force; the Chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; the Chief, NGB, for matters regarding the NG JFHQs-State not under
the cognizance of the Secretaries of the Army or the Air Force; and the ASD(RA), as
appropriate.




                                                                                   ENCLOSURE 4
DODI 5105.83_AFPD90-19 7 DECEMBER 2011                                                               10



4. SECRETARY OF THE ARMY. The Secretary of the Army shall:

    a. In accordance with section 105 of Reference (b), perform those inspection functions
prescribed by law, policies, and issuances as they relate to NG JFHQs-State ARNG staff
elements.

    b. Through the Chief, NGB, address Army equities in the NG JFHQs-State with the States.

     c. In coordination with the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, and through the Chief, NGB, establish 54 NG JFHQs-State; ensure the capabilities
needed at the NG JFHQs-State to perform joint functions, roles, and missions, and the
capabilities needed in ARNG units to support the joint functions, roles, and missions of the joint
staff elements of the NG JFHQs-State, are both considered during the DoD planning,
programming, budgeting, and execution (PPBE) process.

    d. Serve as the approval authority for ARNG manpower adjustments in the joint staff
elements of the NG JFHQs-State.

     e. Coordinate with the ASD(HD&ASA) in the development and implementation of DoD
policy as set forth in paragraphs 3.a. and 3.b. of this enclosure.


5. SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE. The Secretary of the Air Force shall:

    a. In accordance with section 105 of Reference (b), perform those inspection functions
prescribed by law, policies, and issuances as they relate to NG JFHQs-State ANG elements.

(Added)(AF) The Inspector General of the Air Force (SAF/IG) ensures all inspection
functions prescribed by law, policies, and issuances to the Secretary of the Air Force are
properly carried out. The National Guard Bureau Inspector General (NGB/IG) will
establish an IG function to liaise with the Air Force and gaining MAJCOMs regarding
inspection matters unique to the ANG such as the National Guard Joint Force
Headquarters – State ANG elements.

    b. Through the Chief, NGB, address Air Force equities in the NG JFHQs-State with the States.

(Added)(AF) The Air Force shall address Air Force equities in the NG JFHQs-State
through the Director, Air National Guard.

     c. In coordination with the Secretary of the Army and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, and through the Chief, NGB, establish 54 NG JFHQs-State; ensure the capabilities
needed at the NG JFHQs-State to perform joint functions, roles, and missions, and the
capabilities needed in ANG units to support the joint functions, roles, and missions of the
joint staff elements of the NG JFHQs-State, are both considered during the DoD PPBE
process.


                                                                                    ENCLOSURE 4
11                                              DODI 5105.83_AFPD90-19 7 DECEMBER 2011

(Added)(AF) The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs
(SAF/MR) assists the Secretary of the Air Force by providing guidance, direction, and oversight
for all matters pertaining to the formulation, review, and execution of plans, policies, programs,
and budgets involving Air Reserve Components, such as the National Guard Joint Force
Headquarters – State ANG elements.

(Added)(AF) The Director, Air National Guard, develops and justifies programs and
submits them to the Air Force Corporate Structure for consideration. The ANG has a
representative seated at each level of the Air Force Corporate Structure to ensure its
required Title 10 capabilities are addressed during the development of the Air Force
budget.


     d. Serve as the approval authority for ANG manpower adjustments in the joint staff elements
of the NG JFHQs-State.

(Added)(AF) The Director, Air National Guard, shall ensure that ANG manpower
adjustments are included as part of the ANG POM submission to the Air Force Corporate
Structure for its consideration.

     e. Coordinate with the ASD (HD&ASA) in the development and implementation of DoD
policy as set forth in paragraphs 3.a. and 3.b. of this enclosure.

(Added)(AF) The Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force for Operations, Plans and
Requirements (AF/A3/5), is the Air Force focal point for developing and coordinating DoD
homeland security policy with ASD (HD & ASA).

6. CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF. The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
    Staff shall:

     a. Document the joint staff elements of the NG JFHQs-State in joint manpower documents
in accordance with Reference (d).

     b. Ensure the joint manpower documents of each joint staff element of the NG JFHQs-State
include the validated positions required to accomplish the joint mission of the NG JFHQs-State.

    c. Ensure the NG JFHQs-State are incorporated into joint doctrine, joint exercises, the Joint
Officer Management Program, and other joint activities, as appropriate.

    d. Formulate joint training efforts in consultation with the USD(P&R) and the Secretaries of
the Army and the Air Force to ensure synchronization with DoD-level policies and programs.

     e. Coordinate with the ASD(HD&ASA) in the development and implementation of DoD
policy as set forth in paragraphs 3.a. and 3.b. of this enclosure.




                                                                                     ENCLOSURE 4
DODI 5105.83_AFPD90-19 7 DECEMBER 2011                                                           12

7. COMMANDERS OF THE COMBATANT COMMANDS, EXCEPT FOR THE
COMMANDER OF THE UNITED STATES JOINT FORCES COMMAND
(CDRUSJFCOM). The Commanders of the Combatant Commands, EXCEPT for the
CDRUSJFCOM, through the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, shall coordinate with the
CDRUSJFCOM and the Chief, NGB, to integrate the NG JFHQs-State into joint training,
contingency plans, and exercises, as appropriate.


8. CDRUSJFCOM. The CDRUSJFCOM, through the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
shall coordinate with the Commanders of the other Combatant Commands and the Chief, NGB,
in integrating the NG JFHQs-State into joint training, contingency plans, and exercises, as
appropriate.


9. CHIEF, NGB. The Chief, NGB, under the authority, direction, and control of the Secretaries
of the Army and the Air Force for matters under the cognizance of the Secretaries, shall:
   a. Perform the functions prescribed by law, policies, and issuances with regard to the NG
JFHQs-State.
     b. Provide liaison and shared situational awareness capability and serve as a channel of
communications among the NG JFHQs-State, the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the
Military Departments, and the OSD Components in accordance with Reference (h) when the NG
JFHQs-State are operating under the command and control of their respective Governors.

     c. Assist the NG JFHQs-State, with the consent of the Governors, by facilitating
mutual support among the States to the extent allowed by law. Help establish unity of effort
by facilitating the integration of State NG and DoD planning and other activities.

   d. In coordination with the Joint Staff Manpower and Personnel Directorate (J-1),
manage the joint manpower documents for the joint element of the NG JFHQs-State.

    e. Manage the processing of recommendations for applicable joint awards in accordance
with Reference (c). Manage requests for joint duty credit of NG personnel assigned to NG
JFHQs-State joint elements or serving in JTFs in title 32 status in accordance with Joint Staff and
DoD policy.

    f. Coordinate with the State Adjutants General to facilitate the development of a
standardized joint mission-essential task list and the inclusion of the NG JFHQs-State in the
Defense Readiness Reporting System (DRRS) in accordance with References (e) and (h).

   g. Coordinate NG JFHQs-State specific capability requirements and resolve issues with the
Departments of the Army and the Air Force and other DoD Components, as appropriate.

     h. Assist the Secretaries of the Army and the Air Force to ensure joint functions, roles, and
mission resource requirements are properly considered during the DoD PPBE process. Advise
the Secretaries of the Army and the Air Force and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff on
any PPBE issues related to the joint functions, roles, and missions of the NG JFHQs-State.
13                                             DODI 5105.83_AFPD90-19 7 DECEMBER 2011

     i. Support and coordinate the integration of the NG JFHQs-State into Combatant Command
joint training, education, contingency plans, and exercises with the Commanders of the
Combatant Commands, as appropriate.

     j. Coordinate with the ASD(HD&ASA) in the development and implementation of DoD
policy as set forth in paragraphs 3.a. and 3.b. of this enclosure.


 10. STATE ADJUTANTS GENERAL. The State Adjutants General, under the authority,
direction, and control of their respective Governors, shall:

     a. Establish one or more temporary JTF command elements within their respective States
ready to provide command and control for domestic operations in title 32, or title 10 status for
appropriately established JTFs. This includes pre-designating commanders and staff elements
within their respective States to participate in exercises and in training provided by the United
States Northern Command to enhance readiness to provide command and control for domestic
operations.

    b. Prepare to accept appropriate and mutually agreed upon Federal liaison elements in their
respective NG JFHQs-State.




                                                                                   ENCLOSURE 4
DODI 5105.83_AFPD90-19 7 DECEMBER 2011                                                                   14




     c. Designate a qualified officer or officers eligible to serve in dual status pursuant to section
325(a)(2) of Reference (b). When a dual-status relationship is authorized, ensure dual status
officers facilitate unity of effort between State and Federal military forces in accordance with
guidance from both their respective Governors and the President, or their designees.

    d. Ensure designated homeland defense- and civil support-unique equipment is available for
homeland defense and civil support use should the unit owning the equipment deploy for other
missions, except for modified Table of Organization and Equipment and Unit Type Code
equipment that is unit-organic.

     e. Develop joint mission-essential tasks or similar indicators for all Federally assigned
missions, in accordance with Reference (e), to collect near-real-time data on the readiness of
military forces and support organizations to perform these missions, using DRRS in accordance
with Reference (f) as appropriate for State missions. Assess joint readiness in DRRS in
accordance with References (e) and (f).

    f. Advise their respective Governors and collaborate with the Chief, NGB; the Secretary of
Defense; the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; the Secretaries of the Army and the Air
Force; and the Combatant Commanders in matters pertaining to the NG JFHQs-State.

     h. Approve Defense awards up to the Joint Service Commendation Medal, consistent with
the approval level set forth in Reference (c). Forward recommendations for awards that cannot
be approved within the NG JFHQs-State and recommendations for the Defense Meritorious
Service Medal and higher awards to the NGB Manpower and Personnel Directorate for approval
or endorsement by the Chief, NGB.

    i. Provide detailed reports on the state of readiness of their respective State NGs on an
annual basis to the Chief, NGB, to satisfy the Chief, NGB, statutory reporting requirements to
Congress.




                                                                                       ENCLOSURE 4
15                                              DODI 5105.83_AFPD90-19 7 DECEMBER 2011


                                             ENCLOSURE 5

                                           RELATIONSHIPS


1. Each NG JFHQ-State shall be the operational focal point for NG matters that are not under
the authority, direction, and control of the Secretaries of the Army and the Air Force, including
but not limited to joint, interagency, intergovernmental, Military Department, and international
specific functions.

2. In SAD or title 32 status, each NG JFHQ-State shall report to the Governor through the State
Adjutant General. When the State Adjutant General is not a Federally-recognized officer,
actions that must be accomplished by a Federally-recognized officer (such as the approval of
awards pursuant to paragraph 10.f. of Enclosure 4) shall be taken by:

     a. A Federally-recognized Deputy or Assistant Adjutant General.

    b. If there is no Deputy or Assistant Adjutant General, a Federally-recognized officer as
designated by the Governor.

3. In title 10 status, each NG JFHQ-State, led by the assigned Federally-recognized officer, shall
report directly to the DoD-designated command. In instances of a partial mobilization of the NG
JFHQs-State, each NG JFHQ-State element shall be led by an assigned Federally-recognized
officer who shall report directly to the DoD-designated command.

4. All elements of the Department of Defense shall be engaged to achieve unity of effort. DoD
actions shall support the authority and responsibilities of all the DoD Components as established
in law. Nothing herein shall diminish the Federal or State statutory authority or the
responsibilities of the Secretary of Defense; the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; the
Secretaries of the Army and the Air Force; the Combatant Commanders; the Chief, NGB; the
Governors; or the State Adjutants General.

5. Each NG JFHQ-State shall liaise with and shall provide situational awareness among the
States, and through the NGB, to the Department of Defense during domestic operations in which
State-controlled NG forces and State intergovernmental and interagency organizations are
participating.

6. If operational necessity dictates, the NG JFHQs-State may communicate directly with the
appropriate Combatant Command or other DoD entities, keeping the NGB informed.




                                                                                    ENCLOSURE 5
DODI 5105.83_AFPD90-19 7 DECEMBER 2011                                                                16


                                            GLOSSARY

                         PART I: ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ANG                 Air National Guard
ANGUS               Air National Guard of the United States
ARNG                Army National Guard
ARNGUS              Army National Guard of the United States
ASD(HD&ASA)         Assistant Secretary of Defense for Homeland Defense and Americas’
                    Security Affairs
ASD(RA)             Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs

CDRUSJFCOM           Commander, United States Joint Forces Command
CJCS                 Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff

DRRS                 Defense Readiness Reporting System

JFHQ-State          One Joint Force Headquarters-State
JFHQs-State         More than one Joint Force Headquarters-State
JTF                 Joint task force

NG                  National Guard
NGB                 National Guard Bureau

PPBE                Programming, Planning, Budgeting, and Execution

SAD                  State active duty
SDF                  State Defense Forces

USD(P&R)            Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness


                                     PART II: DEFINITIONS


Unless otherwise noted, these terms and their definitions are for the purpose of this Directive.

Federally-recognized officer. An officer of the militia who has been found qualified under
Federal standards for Federal recognition of his State grade, which entitles the officer to Federal
pay for training and other duty performed under the authority of title 32, U.S.C. Pursuant to
sections 12211 and 12212 of Reference (a), upon being Federally recognized an officer of the
ARNG or ANG shall be appointed in that grade as a Reserve of the Army or Air Force for
service in the ARNGUS or ANGUS.




                                                                                       GLOSSARY
17                                              DODI 5105.83_AFPD90-19 7 DECEMBER 2011


Governors. The Governors of the several States, the Territory of the U.S. Virgin Islands, the
Territory of Guam, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and, in the case of the District of
Columbia, the President of the United States or his or her designee.

NG. Defined in Reference (h).

SAD status. The status of a member of any unit of the NG of a State when not in title 32 status
and when ordered by the Governor or his or her designee under the laws of the State concerned
to perform functions authorized by State law.

State Adjutants General. The Adjutants General of the several States, the Territory of the U.S.
Virgin Islands, the Territory of Guam, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the
Commanding General of the District of Columbia.

States. The 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin
Islands, and Guam.

Title 10 status. The status of a member of any unit of the NG of a State when ordered to active
duty or called to Federal service by the President or his designee to perform functions authorized
by Federal law.

Title 32 status. The status of members performing training or other duty pursuant to authorities in
title 32, U.S.C. The performance of such duty is paid for with Federal funds but the members of
the ARNG or ANG remain under the command and control of State authorities. For this reason
it should be referred to as a Federally-funded State status.

Unity of effort. Coordination and cooperation toward common objectives, even when the
participants are not part of the same command.




                                                                                       GLOSSARY
