BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                             DODD5330.3_AIR FORCE SUP1
HEADQUARTERS, 11TH WING
                                                                                         BOLLING AFB
                                                                                           Supplement 1
                                                                                     28 JANUARY 2002



                                                     DEFENSE AUTOMATED PRINTING SERVICE
                                                                                  (DAPS)

                   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: 11 CS/SCSP (Mr. Clarence E. Frazier)                                       Certified by: 11 WG/SC
                                                                            (Lt Col Gregory B. Edwards)
Supersedes DODD 5330.3/AFS/BAFBS,                                                                Pages: 5
           15 Oct 99                                                                      Distribution: F

DODD 5330.3/Air Force Supplement, February 1999, is supplemented as follows. It provides guidance
and procedures for obtaining printing and duplicating services provided by Defense Automated Printing
Service (DAPS) (new title now is Document Automation Production Service) supporting 11th Wing and
selected Air Staff agencies. It updates management procedures and commercial procurement of printing,
duplicating and related services, as well as OPR responsibilities. Additionally, it outlines copier proce-
dures and establishes 11 CS/SCSR as the 11th Wing Copier Monitor for the Air Staff and all 11th Wing
activities.



SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
The following are included in this revision: (1) Changed the name of Defense Automated Printing Service
to Document Automation Production Service in the text, (2) Changed the office symbol of the OPR from
11 CS/SCSRP to 11 CS/SCSP and (3) Defined OPR responsibilities for Heritage and Enlisted Seminars.
2. Applicability
2.1. (Added) This supplement applies to all host activities, Air Staff agencies, and mayoral personnel
who represent the 11th Support Group, Community Development Section.
5. Responsibilities and Functions
5.1.3.1.1. (Added) The Director, Communications and Information (11WG/SC), is responsible for setting
policies, procedures, and overseeing printing, duplicating, and copying for 11th Wing customers.
5.1.3.1.2. (Added) 11 CS/SCSP is responsiblefor performing Document Automation Production Service
(DAPS) liaison duties for 11th Wing and surrounding areas, excluding 11th Medical Group. Duties (not
inclusive) are outlined below:
2                                  DODD5330.3_AFSUP1_BOLLINGAFBSUP1 28 JANUARY 2002


       Developing program budget targets.
       Managing a centralized budget for 11th Wing activities located on Bolling AFB and adjacent
       property.
       Performing liaison duties between customers and DAPS supervisors.
       Approving and processing DD Forms 844, Requisition for Local Duplicating Service.
       Monitoring commercial printing requisitions and budget targets for United States Air Force Band.
5.1.3.1.3. (Added) 11 CS/SCSR is responsiblefor managing DAPS processes for 11th Wing customers
located at the Pentagon and adjacent property. SCSR also manages and maintains an efficient and effec-
tive local printing, duplicating, and copier program for the Air Staff, per Headquarters USAF Operating
Instruction 33-2.
5.1.3.1.4. (Added) 11 MDG/SG is responsible for establishing internal control for the management of
their printing and copying requirements. Funding is approved under a separate Element of Expense/
Investment Code (EEIC).
5.1.3.1.4.1. (Added) Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR). Commanders and Staff Agency Chiefs are-
responsible for establishing internal procedures to certify the following actions are taken to obtain color
and black/white products:
       Ensuring three (3) copies of DD Form 844 are properly prepared for each product approved
       for copying.
       Manuscripts are current and accurate.
       Ensuring the material approved for copying does not violate copyright rules and laws. Copyright
       material can be copied, provided written documentation from the OPR is attached to the DD Form
       844.
       Ensuring sufficient number of copies are requisitioned. If copies are to be disseminated through
       the Base Information Transfer System (BITS), via the Categorical Distribution scheme, then
       coordinate the required number of copies with NCOIC, Base Information Transfer Center (BITC).
       The Commander or the individual who has overall responsibility for a specific project is
       responsible for completing Blocks 8a and b, Requester Certification, on DD Form 844. The DAPS
       Liaison is responsible for signing Block 8c.
       They are also responsible for ensuring clear instructions are provided for projects that are technical
       in design or require special stock. DAPS only maintain the basic stock of paper and color, such as
       white, color paper, vellum, and card stock. Customers are responsible for procuring and providing
       non-basic paper stock.
5.1.3.1.7. (Added) Heritage Programs. Group Commanders are tasked by HQ 11 WG/CC to manage spe-
cific programs. The tasked commander is responsible for approving printing products and/or designating
an individual to approve them on his/her behalf.
5.1.3.1.5.8. (Added) Enlisted Induction Programs. The Command Chief Master Sergeant is responsible-
for approving printing products and/or designating an individual to approve them on his behalf.
DODD5330.3_AFSUP1_BOLLINGAFBSUP1 28 JANUARY 2002                                                         3


5.1.3.1.5.9. (Added) Since 11th Services Division supports Appropriated and Non-appropriated activi-
ties, the Director must forward an e-mail or Memorandum to 11 CS/SCSP and designate which activities
are authorized to submit requisitions for DAPS support.
5.3.1.1. (Added) Standardizedgovernment desk and wall calendars are the only calendars which depart-
ments are authorized to obtain at government expense and shall be ordered from the General Services
Administration.
5.3.1.2. (Added) TheIssuance of Business Cards is a privilege. Commanders and Staff Agency Chiefs are
responsible for determining authorized recipients. Additionally, they are responsible for procuring stock,
maintaining the appropriate software, and printing the cards on in-house copiers. Upon request, 11 CS/
SCUBG will develop standardized organizational templates. DAPS funds will not be used to defray
expenses. Exceptions must be approved by the Chief, Publishing Branch.
5.3.1.2.1. (Added) 11th Wing Letterhead. 11 CS/SCSP is responsible for managing, issuing the physical
product and forwarding an electronic version to 11 CS/SCB (NCC) for posting on the “W” Drive.
5.3.1.2.2. (Added) Protocol Stationery is only available to 11 WG/CC.
5.3.1.2.2.1. (Added) Color Invitations with matching envelopes are authorized for HQ 11 WG/CC and
Group Commanders. When required, Staff Agency Chiefs and Squadron Commanders must use the invi-
tation and envelope of their respective Commander.
5.3.1.2.3. (Added) Memo Pads. Authorization is outlined below:
5.3.1.2.3.1. Wing: Commander,Vice Commander, Executive Officer, Staff Agency Chiefs, and Command
Chief Master Sergeant, Generic (Staff)
5.3.1.2.3.2. Group: Commander, Deputy/Equivalent, Generic (Staff)
5.3.1.2.3.3. Squadron: Commander, Deputy/Equivalent, Generic (First Sergeant, Flight Chiefs, and Staff)
5.3.1.2.3.4. (Added) Design modification and internal distribution criteria.
5.3.1.2.3.4.1. Printing - Blue ink; pads of 100 sheets. Request for change in design must be submitted to
11 CS/SCS through 11 CS/SCSP for review. 11 WG/SC is the final approval authority.
5.3.1.2.3.4.2. Office managers are encouraged to establish internal procedures to distribute and request
stock replenishment.
5.3.1.3. (Added) PaperConservation. Managers at all levels are responsible for establishing procedures
for in-house copier use. In-house copiers should be used when the manuscript is one or two-sided and 200
or less copies are required. Functional Addressee must justify request for one-sided printing of a multiple
page document. The justification can be typed/printed on the DD Form 844, in the Block titled "For Plant
Use Only", e-mailed to 11 CS/SCSP, or typed in a Memorandum.
5.3.1.4. (Added) Locations of DAPS Facility. There is no facility located on Bolling AFB, the nearest
facility is located at the Navy Yard, Washington, DC. For Pentagon customers, printing is requisitioned
through 11 CS/SCSR, located in Room 4A1088D.
5.3.1.5. (Added) Multicolor Printing/Color Processing. Government Printing Office and Binding Regula-
tions establish the guidelines for multicolor printing. Multicolor Printing/Color Processing pertains to
shades of color, for items such as shields and logos. Color separations are required and can be obtained
from 11 CS/SCUBG (Base Graphics). Commanders or Staff Agency Chiefs or a designated representative
must approve these requisitions.
4                                 DODD5330.3_AFSUP1_BOLLINGAFBSUP1 28 JANUARY 2002


5.3.1.6. (Added) The Director, Public Affairs, the United States Air Force Band is authorized to submit
requisitions directly to AFDPO, but must forward informational copies of the correspondence to 11 CS/
SCSP.
5.5.1.1. (Added) ). Reproducing Classified Documents. As a minimum, all DAPS personnel are cleared
to copy material up through Secret. For Bolling Customers, the DAPS Liaison will contact the DAPS
facility manager to set up an appointment. Customers are responsible for handcarrying documents to
DAPS and waiting for the copies.
5.5.1.1.1. (Added) Designating Copiers for Classified Use. Security Managers must provide 11 CS/SCSR
with a memorandum designating copiers to be used for copying classified material.
5.5.1.2. (Added) Copier Monitor’s Responsibilities. 11 CS/SCSR (Pentagon) is responsible for managing
and implementing the Copier Service program for 11th Wing activities located in the Pentagon and on
Bolling AFB. This includes acquiring and disposing of copiers. Office chiefs must appoint primary and
alternate copier monitors and provide the following information, in writing, to 11 CS/SCSR:


       Name


       Duty telephone number


       Complete mailing address


       Make, model, serial number, and location of copier(s)


5.5.1.3. (Added) Obtaining Decals and Other Markings. Most of these products are technical in design
and expensive, therefore, a written justification and specifications must be submitted 11 SC/SCSP for
review, 11 WG/SC is the final approval authority.
DODD5330.3_AFSUP1_BOLLINGAFBSUP1 28 JANUARY 2002                                                           5


                                              Attachment 1

                             11 CS/SCSR COPIER RESPONSIBILITIES

1. Ensures copying services are funded and adequate to support mission requirements.

2. Establishes procedures and controls to govern the acquisition and use of copiers.

3. Ensures compliance with control, procedures, and use of copiers.

4. Evaluates requests for new copier equipment and recommends the equipment the requester should
acquire.

5. Establishes and uses information-gathering techniques and maintains record-keeping services.

6. Conducts on-site visits and inspections of facilities, equipment, and use.

7. Ensures invoices received from vendors are valid and accurate prior to verification.

8. Ensures copier contracts are current and accurate.

9. Evaluates requests for new copiers and recommends required accessories.

10. Performs liaison duties with vendors and customers, which includes determining the level of service
necessary and coordinating delivery schedules.

11. Ensures propriety of all released services and certifies contractual integrity of the Copier Service Pro-
gram.

12. Arranges for and provides training, guidance, and information to copier monitors as follows:

       (1) Acquaints monitors with the Copier Service Program and monitors duties.

       (2) Arranges for copier equipment training at the copier site agreed upon by the vendor and
       monitor.



                                                        WILLIAM A. CHAMBERS, Colonel, USAF
                                                        Commander
