BY ORDER OF THE                                                DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                            22 JULY 2010

                                                                     Special Management

                                   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FEDERAL ADVISORY
                                          COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM


            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/AAX                              Certified by: SAF/AAX (Ms. Carolyn Lunsford)

Supersedes: DoDI 5105.04_AFI 90-1401, 17 September 2008                         Pages: 59


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-14, soon to be AF
Committee Management Program (Reference (aa)), and guidance in Department of Defense
(DoD) Instruction, (DoDI) 5105.04, Department of Defense Federal Advisory Committee
Management Program, August 6, 2007. The DoD Instruction is printed word-for-word in
regular font without editorial review. Air Force (AF) supplementary material is printed in
bold font and/or indicated by “(Added)(AF).” This Supplement provides AF guidance for
the establishment, renewal, management, and support of AF-sponsored Federal Advisory
Committees (FAC). This publication applies to all organizational entities within the
Department of the Air Force. This publication does not apply to the Air National Guard
(ANG). Send all recommended changes or comments about this publication to SAF/AAX,
1720 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1720, safaax.workflow@pentagon.af.mil,
through appropriate channels, using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Ensure that all records created by an AF-sponsored FAC are maintained in
accordance with DoD Directive 5015.2, DoD Records Management Program, March 6, 2000
(Reference (u)). Ensure that all records created as a result of the processes for the
administration and management of AF-sponsored FACs are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, March 1, 2008 (Reference
(ae)) and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is updated to reflect changes in procedures and responsibilities in the
member appointment process as well as providing clarification in due dates associated with
2                                   DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010


monthly and quarterly reporting requirements. It also adds two required forms to the
member application package.
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                                     3




                               Department of Defense
                                  INSTRUCTION
                                                              NUMBER 5105.04 August 6, 2007


                                                                                         DA&M

SUBJECT: Department of Defense Federal Advisory Committee Management Program

References: (a) DoD Directive 5105.4, “Department of Defense Federal Advisory Committee
                 Management Program,” February 10, 2003 (hereby canceled)
            (b) Acting Deputy Secretary of Defense Memorandum, “DoD Directives Review
                 – Phase II,” July 13, 2005
            (c) DoD Directive 5105.53, “Director of Administration and Management,”
                 November 23, 1998
            (d) Title 41, Code of Federal Regulations, Sections 102-3.5 through 102-3.185,
                “Federal Advisory Committee Management”
            (e) through (y), see Enclosure 1
            (Added)(AF) (z) through (ag), see Enclosure 1

1. PURPOSE

This Instruction:

   1.1. Reissues Reference (a) as a DoD Instruction in accordance with the guidance in
Reference (b) and the authority in References (c) and (d).

    1.2. Establishes policy, provides procedures, and assigns responsibilities for the Department
of Defense Federal Advisory Committee Management Program in accordance with sections 102-
3.5 through 102-3.185 of Reference (d), and Appendix of title 5, United States Code (U.S.C.)
(Reference (e)).

   1.3. (Added)(AF) This Supplement assigns responsibility and establishes guidance and
procedures for the administration and management of AF-sponsored FACs.

2. APPLICABILITY AND SCOPE

This Instruction applies to:

    2.1. The Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), the Military Departments (including the
Coast Guard at all times, including when it is a service in the Department of Homeland Security
by agreement with that Department), the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Joint Staff,
the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the
4                                             DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010

Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the
Department of Defense (hereafter collectively referred to as the “DoD Components”). The term
“Military Services,” as used herein, refers to the Active and Reserve Components of the Army,
the Navy, the Air Force, the Marine Corps, and the Coast Guard.

   2.2. DoD-Supported Federal Advisory Committees, pursuant to section 102-3.105(b) of
Reference (d) and Reference (e).

    2.3. Nothing in this Instruction shall:

       2.3.1. Limit or restrict the free exchange of information, advice, or ideas between
representatives of the Department of Defense or other Federal Agencies through ad hoc
or occasional meetings, or by other means.

      2.3.2. Apply to any committee, board, commission, council conference, panel, task force,
subcommittee or other subgroup, or any other similar types of groups, which are:

            2.3.2.1. Internal DoD staff meetings, accident investigation boards, safety mishap
boards, flying evaluation boards, or medical evaluation boards, committees established to
perform primarily operational duties, as opposed to advisory functions, or boards to select
members of the Military Services for promotion, reassignment, education, training, separation, or
retirement.

           2.3.2.2. Created by a non-Federal entity (such as a contractor or private organization)
and are not actually managed or controlled by an officer or employee of the Federal government.

            2.3.2.3. Meetings initiated by one or more Federal officials with more than one other
individual to obtain advice from individual attendees and not for the purpose of utilizing the
group to obtain consensus advice or recommendations.

            2.3.2.4. Meetings of two or more Committee or Subcommittee members convened
solely to gather information or to conduct research for a Committee operating under this
Instruction, to analyze relevant issues and facts, or to draft proposed position papers for
deliberations by the entire Committee membership.

            2.3.2.5. Local civic groups whose primary function is that of rendering a public
service with respect to a Federal program or any State or local committee, council, board,
commission, or similar group established to advise or make recommendations to State or
local officials or agencies.

        2.3.3. Require intergovernmental and intragovernmental committees to comply with the
provisions of this Instruction. Notwithstanding, care shall be taken to ensure that members of the
public do not participate in any deliberations whatsoever. Public participation in the
deliberations of intergovernmental or intragovernmental committees may require the Committee
to comply with References (d) and (e). Any questions regarding this issue shall be directed to
the Committee Management Officer (CMO).
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                                       5

3. DEFINITIONS

Terms used in this Instruction are defined in Enclosure 2.

4. POLICY

It is DoD policy that:

   4.1. No DoD-Supported Federal Advisory Committee (hereafter referred to as “DoD-
Supported Committee”), subject to the provisions of References (d) and (e), shall be established
unless specifically authorized by the President of the United States, Congress, the Secretary of
Defense, or an official authorized by the Secretary of Defense.

    4.2. No DoD-Supported Committee shall be considered part of the DoD organizational
structure.

   4.3. DoD-Supported Committees shall be supported by a DoD Sponsor appointed by the
Director for Administration and Management (DA&M).

    4.4. All DoD-Supported Committees shall be used for advisory functions, unless directed by
statute or Presidential directive. Only the President, the Secretary of Defense, or their designees,
as appropriate, shall determine the proper course of action and the appropriate expression of
policy regarding matters on which a Committee reports or makes recommendations.

    4.5. No Discretionary Committees shall make any decisions, conduct DoD operations, or
perform functions that are capable of being carried out by existing DoD resources, an existing
Committee, or other means, such as public hearings.

    4.6. Committee membership, as a whole, shall be balanced in terms of the points of view and
the functions to be performed.

    4.7. All DoD-Supported Committees, by majority vote of the Committee members, shall
develop and adopt by-laws that describe how the Committee and its Subcommittees, if
authorized, operate and the Committee’s relationship to the Department of Defense. Adopted
by-laws shall be made available to the public, upon request.

   4.8. Individuals who are appointed to or detailed to Committees, while acting in an official
capacity as a Committee member or Committee staff, shall not perform any work for the
Department of Defense other than what is directly associated with the Committee’s Charter.

5. RESPONSIBILITIES

   5.1. The DA&M shall:

       5.1.1. Perform, pursuant to the Acting Deputy Secretary of Defense Memorandum
(Reference (f)), the responsibilities of the Secretary of Defense outlined in References (d) and
(e).
6                                           DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010

        5.1.2. Appoint a DoD Sponsor for each DoD-Supported Committee, unless otherwise
directed by statute, Executive order, or the Secretary of Defense.

       5.1.3. Approve or disapprove the establishment, renewal, or termination of all DoD-
Supported Committees and determine whether Subcommittees shall be authorized, unless
otherwise prohibited by statute, Executive order, or the Secretary of Defense.

        5.1.4. Ensure that DoD-Supported Committees are terminated whenever their work has
been accomplished, the subject matter is no longer relevant, their work has become obsolete, or
their functions have been assumed by another Federal government entity.

      5.1.5. Determine the level of DoD support to be provided to Independent Presidential
Advisory Committees.

       5.1.6. Appoint a Committee Management Officer for the Department of Defense to
provide policy oversight and management of the Department of Defense Federal Advisory
Committee Management Program.

       5.1.7. Develop and implement DoD-wide policies and procedures to ensure DoD
compliance with References (d) and (e).

       5.1.8. Ensure that all DoD Components cooperate with any Committee and furnish such
information and assistance as is necessary for the performance of its functions, consistent with
applicable laws.

       5.1.9. Ensure that information is shared as broadly as possible, except when limited by
law, policy, or security classification and that data assets resulting from assigned responsibilities
are accessible by and comprehensible to the Department of Defense, pursuant to DoD Directive
8320.02 (Reference (g)).

    5.2. The CMO, under the authority, direction, and control of the DA&M, shall:

         5.2.1. Develop and file the Charters for all DoD-Supported Committees, including the
initial Charter and any modifications or renewals pursuant to this Instruction and Reference (c).

       5.2.2. Consult with the General Counsel of the Department of Defense (DoD GC) and the
Committee Management Secretariat (CMS) for the General Services Administration (GSA), on
matters pertaining to the Department of Defense Federal Advisory Committee Management
Program, pursuant to Executive Order 12024 (Reference (h)).

         5.2.3. Ensure that all DoD-Supported Committees, unless otherwise authorized by a
statute, Executive order, or the Secretary of Defense, or designee, terminate their operations not
later than 2 years after the date of establishment.

        5.2.4. Review and approve all written DoD guidance that implements References (d) and
(e) and this Instruction prior to publication by any DoD organization or entity (including, but not
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                                      7

limited to, Regulations, Manuals, Pamphlets, Directives, and changes thereto).

        5.2.5. Review and validate DoD’s submission to the Annual Comprehensive Review
(ACR) and the Closed or Partially Closed Meeting Report and work with the CMS to correct any
deficiencies.

        5.2.6 Develop and maintain a Committee Management Review Program to ensure that
the Department of Defense and the DoD-Supported Committees comply with the appropriate
statutes, Executive orders, policies, and regulations.

   5.3. The OSD Principal Staff Assistants (PSAs), the Secretaries of the Military Departments,
and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall:

    5.3.1. Serve as the DoD Sponsor of DoD-Supported Committees, when appointed by the
DA&M, and in that capacity shall:

             5.3.1.1. Provide adequate support to the DoD-Sponsored Committees, which may,
depending on the Committee’s requirements, include support in the following areas: funding,
facilities, human resources (Committee member appointments and staffing requirements, when
authorized), information technology, central services (telephones, supplies, furniture, printing,
etc.), contracting, and access to key decision makers.

           5.3.1.2. Ensure Federal employees do not interfere with the daily management
responsibilities and functions of DoD-Supported Committees, or provide specific direction to
appointed Committee members on how to execute their statutory responsibilities, which are to
provide independent advice and recommendations to the Federal government.

       5.3.2. Make recommendations to the DA&M regarding the establishment, renewal, or
termination of DoD-Supported Committees, as necessary.

       5.3.3. Nominate to the Secretary of Defense, or designee, for the appointment or
reappointment of qualified individuals to serve on DoD-Supported Committees.

        5.3.4. Ensure that all Component organizations cooperate with any Committee and
furnish such information and assistance as is necessary for the performance of its
functions, consistent with applicable laws.

        5.3.5. Select and appoint a full-time or permanent part-time Federal employee to perform
Group Federal Officer (GFO) duties for the DoD Sponsor. This appointment authority may be
further delegated in writing, but no lower than the Assistant Secretary level. No one to whom
this appointment authority is delegated may serve in any capacity on any Committee sponsored
by the DoD Sponsor in question.

       5.3.6. Select and appoint a full-time or permanent part-time Federal employee to perform
Designated Federal Officer (DFO) or Alternate DFO duties for each DoD-Supported Committee.
This appointment authority may be further delegated in writing, but no lower than the Assistant
8                                          DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010

Secretary level or the three-star flag officer equivalent. No one to whom this appointment
authority is delegated may serve in any capacity on the Committee in question.

       5.3.7. Determine, in consultation with the appropriate GC, whether to close all or part of
a Committee or Subcommittee meeting to the public pursuant to section 552b(c) of title 5, U.S.C.
(Reference (i)). This authority may be delegated in writing, but no lower than the Assistant
Secretary level or the three-star flag officer equivalent. No one to whom this authority is
delegated may serve in any capacity on the Committees in question.

       5.3.8. Evaluate, unless prohibited by a statute or Executive order, a Committee’s
independent advice and recommendations, and determine which actions or policies shall be
implemented by the Department of Defense. Only the PSAs, the Secretaries of the Military
Departments, or the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who have been designated as DoD
Sponsors of specific Committees shall be authorized to exercise this authority, and only when
such advice falls within the scope of the responsibilities and functions formally assigned to
them by a statute or a DoD Charter Directive. This authority may be further delegated in
writing, but no lower than the Assistant Secretary level or the three-star flag officer equivalent.
No one to whom this authority is delegated may serve in any capacity on the Committee in
question.

       5.3.9. Ensure a copy of all delegations authorized by this Instruction are provided to the
CMO.

      5.3.10. (Added)(AF) The Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force
(SAF/AA) pursuant to authority granted in Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive 1-6,
The Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force, is responsible for the
administration of the FACA as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force (Reference (z)).

           5.3.10.1. (Added)(AF) The Directorate of Human Resources and Manpower,
Office of the Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AAA) is
responsible for ensuring proper coordination, documentation, and processing of
individuals approved for appointment by the Secretary of Defense, or designee, to serve
as members or consultants on an AF-sponsored FAC.

           5.3.10.2. (Added)(AF) The Directorate of Policy, Plans, and Resources, Office
of the Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AAX) is
responsible for the effective and timely implementation of policy and guidance pertaining
to management and administration of the AF Federal Advisory Committee Management
Program. SAF/AAX will assign an AF GFO to act as the liaison for SAF/AA with the
DoD Advisory Committee Management Officer (ACMO), Washington Headquarters
Services Human Resources Directorate (WHS/HRD), the Office of the Special Assistant
to the Secretary of Defense for White House Liaison, and duly appointed Designated
Federal Officers (DFO) of AF-sponsored Federal Advisory Committees. All delegations
authorized by this Supplement and pursuant to the authority granted to SAF/AA shall be
processed through the AF GFO.
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                                        9


      5.3.11. (Added)(AF) The General Counsel of the Air Force (SAF/GC) shall provide
counsel to the Secretary of the Air Force, SAF/AA, the AF GFO (SAF/AAX), and DFOs, as
appropriate, on issues relating to References (d) and (e) impacting AF-sponsored FACs.
SAF/GC will provide guidance to DFOs and individuals (member and/or consultant
nominees) on the appropriate handling of Financial Disclosure Reports (OGE 450,
Confidential Financial Disclosure Report) in accordance with References (d) and (e).

      5.3.12. (Added)(AF) The Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, Public Affairs
(SAF/PA) will communicate information about AF-sponsored Federal Advisory
Committees’ activities both to the general public and AF members to increase the
awareness and understanding of the public’s participation in the development and
implementation of AF policy.

    5.4. The Director of the Document Automation and Production Service (DAPS), or
designee, under the authority of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology,
and Logistics, shall:

       5.4.1. Determine, in accordance with the Government Printing Office (GPO), if a
Committee’s report should be sold in the GPO’s commercial stores and if it should be distributed
through the Federal Depository Library Program.

        5.4.2. Ensure that the printing requirements for DoD-Supported Committees are
accomplished in an expeditious manner, due to the time sensitivity of the Committees’ work, and
include, if necessary, authorizations for the use of private-sector graphic design and commercial
printing companies.

   5.5. The GFO, under the authority, direction and control of the DoD Sponsor, shall:

        5.5.1. Assist the Sponsor in the administrative oversight and management of their aspects
of the Department of Defense Federal Advisory Committee Management Program.

       5.5.1. Oversee compliance of those Committees sponsored by his or her DoD Sponsor
with References (d) and (e), this Instruction, and all other relevant Federal rules and regulations.

        5.5.2. Develop and maintain, for their respective Component, a Committee Management
Program that ensures compliance with the appropriate statutes, Executive orders, policies, and
regulations.

       5.5.3. Develop and implement Component-wide policies and procedures to ensure
compliance with References (d) and (e) and this Instruction.

       5.5.4. Consult with the DoD Sponsor’s GC and the CMO on matters pertaining to the
Department of Defense Federal Advisory Committee Management Program, pursuant to
References (d) and (e) and this Instruction.

       5.5.5. Assist the CMO in ensuring that all written Component guidance (including, but
not limited to, Regulations, Manuals, Pamphlets, Directives, and changes thereto) that implement
10                                       DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010

References (d) and (e) and this Instruction are reviewed by the CMO prior to publication.

      5.5.6. Review and validate DoD’s submission to the ACR and the Closed-Partial Closed
Meeting Report and work with the CMO to correct any deficiencies.

       5.5.7. Assist their DoD Sponsor to ensure that Committees are terminated whenever their
work has been accomplished, the subject matter is no longer relevant, their work has become
obsolete, or their functions have been assumed by another Federal government entity.

   5.6. The DFO, under the authority, direction, and control of the DoD Sponsor, the DA&M,
and the CMO, shall:

        5.6.1. Ensure compliance of DoD-Supported Committees with References (d) and (e),
this Instruction, and all other relevant Federal rules and regulations.

        5.6.2. Ensure that no DoD-Supported Committee establishes Subcommittees unless
specifically authorized by statute, Executive order, or the Committee’s Charter.

        5.6.3. Ensure that no DoD-Supported Committee shall meet or take any official action
until the CMO files the Committee’s Charter pursuant to Reference (d), and paragraph E3.4.3. of
this Instruction.

       5.6.4. Comply with the DFO duties assigned by References (d) and (e), this Instruction,
and the DA&M and/or the CMO.

       5.6.4.1. (Added)(AF) Comply with DFO duties assigned or identified by SAF/AA
or the AF GFO.

     5.6.5. Ensure that no DoD-Supported Committee, unless authorized by statute, uses a
commercial publishing house to print or sell any of its reports.

       5.6.6. Ensure that DoD-Supported Committees are managed pursuant to the provisions
of References (d) and (e) and this Instruction.

        5.6.7. Oversee the internal controls of DoD-Supported Committees for non-payroll
financial transactions to ensure compliance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation
(Reference (j)) and other Federal policies and procedures governing financial management
practices.

  5.7. The Alternate DFO, under the authority, direction, and control of the DFO and the
DoD Sponsor, shall:

       5.7.1. Assist the Committee’s DFO, when appointed by the DoD Sponsor, and in that
capacity shall:

             5.7.1.1. Ensure compliance of DoD-Supported Committees with References (d) and
(e), this Instruction, and all other relevant Federal rules and regulations.
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                                    11

           5.7.1.2. Ensure that DoD-Supported Committees are managed pursuant to the
provisions of References (d) and (e) and this Instruction.

            5.7.1.3. Oversee the internal controls of DoD-Supported Committees for non-payroll
financial transactions to ensure compliance with the Reference (j) and other Federal policies and
procedures governing financial management practices.

      5.7.2. Comply with the DFO duties assigned by References (d) and (e), this Instruction,
the DA&M, the CMO or the DFO, when required.

           5.7.2.1. (Added)(AF) Comply with DFO duties assigned by SAF/AA or the AF
GFO.

    5.8. (Added)(AF) A Committee Executive or Staff Director, hereinafter referred to as
the Committee Exec, may be assigned by the AF functional sponsor when additional
supervision of the Committee staff or administrative support is required to support the
Committee. An individual assigned as the Committee Exec shall: serve as the primary
point of contact for all matters relating to Committee staff and provide assistance to the
DFO in performing duties related to managing and administering the Committee.

   5.9. (Added)(AF) A Committee Records Custodian (RC) shall be appointed by the
DFO, or Committee Exec when assigned, for each AF-sponsored FAC. The individual
appointed as the RC must be a full-time government employee. The RC will perform
duties associated with managing Committee records pursuant to References (u) and (ad).

6. PROCEDURES

The procedures for implementing this Instruction are contained in Enclosure 3.

7. INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS

   7.1. Reports of findings, recommendations or actions prepared by a committee are exempt
from licensing in accordance with paragraph C4.4.3. of DoD 8910.1.-M (Reference (k)).

   7.2. Committee recommendations or evaluations as to existing or proposed plans, policies,
procedures, organizations, missions, publications, agenda, curricula or courses of action are
exempt from licensing in accordance with paragraph C4.4.4. of Reference (k).

    7.3. Data collection that falls outside the exemptions cited in paragraphs 7.1. and 7.2.
require licensing. The WHS/ESD Information Management Division shall be consulted on a
case-by-case basis before any such data collection commences.

8. EFFECTIVE DATE

This Instruction is effective immediately.
12                                      DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010

9. ADOPTED FORMS

Standard Form 81, Ethnicity and Race Identification
Standard Form 256, Self-Identification of Handicap




                                                      WILLIAM A. DAVIDSON
                                                      Administrative Assistant

Enclosures - 4
  E1. References, continued
  E2. Definitions
  E3. Procedures
  E4. Compensation Guidelines
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                              13



                                    E1. ENCLOSURE 1

                                 REFERENCES, continued

(e) Appendix of title 5, United States Code, as amended
(f) Acting Deputy Secretary of Defense Memorandum, “Department of Defense Federal
    Advisory Committee Management Program,” August 22, 2006
(g) DoD Directive 8320.02, “Data Sharing in a Net-Centric Department of Defense,” December
2, 2004
(h) Executive Order 12024, December 1, 1977
(i) Sections 7(a), 552, 2104, 2105, 3102, 3109, and 3161 of title 5, United States Code
(j) Federal Acquisition Regulation, March 2005
(k) DoD 8910.1-M, Paragraphs C4.4.3 and C4.4.4, “DoD Procedures for Management of
    Information Requirements,” June 30, 1998
(l) Sections 202, 203, 205, 207 and 208 of title 18, United States Code
(m) DoD Directive 1100.4, “Guidance for Manpower Management.” February 12, 2005
(n) Chapter 38 of title 10, United States Code
(o) DoD Directive 1000.17, “Detail of DoD Personnel to Duty Outside the Department of
    Defense,” February 24, 1997
(p) DoD 5500.7-R, “Joint Ethics Regulation,” August 1993, as amended
(q) DoD 5200.1-R, “Information Security Program,” January 14, 1997
(r) Joint Federal Travel Regulations, Volume 1, “Uniformed Services Members”
(s) Joint Travel Regulations, Volume 2, “DoD Civilian Personnel”
(t) Sections 501 and 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended
(u) DoD Directive 5015.2, “DoD Records Management Program,” March 6, 2000
(v) DoD Instruction 5330.03, “Document Automation and Production Service (DAPS),”
    February 8, 2006
(w) Section 1042 of Public Law 107-107, “National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
    2002,” December 28, 2001
(x) Section 3301 of title 44, United States Code
(y) Title 36, Code of Federal Regulations 1228, Subpart L
(z) (Added)(AF) HAFMD 1-6, The Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force,
    June 5, 2007
(aa) (Added)(AF) AFPD 90-14, soon to be Air Force Committee Management Program
(ab) (Added()AF) Air Force Instruction 33-320, Federal Register, 15 May 2002
(ac) (Added)(AF) AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November
2005
(ad) (Added)(AF) AFI 65-601, Vol 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 3 March 2005
(ae) (Added)(AF) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
(af) (Added)(AF) AFMAN 24-101, Passenger Movement, 27 October 2004
(ag) (Added)(AF) Committee Management Officer memo, Federal Register Notices and
DoD-Supported Federal Advisory Committees, 15 November 2007
14                                         DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010

                                       E2. ENCLOSURE 2

                                          DEFINITIONS

E2.1. Administrative Work Meeting. A meeting between two or more Committee members or
Subcommittee members convened solely to discuss Committee administrative matters or to
receive administrative information from a Federal employee or agency. As defined, an
administrative work meeting shall be exempt from the open meeting and Federal Register
meeting notice requirements of Reference (d).

E2.2. Advisory Committee. Any committee, subcommittee, board, commission, council,
conference, panel, task force, or other similar group which is established by statute or
reorganization plan, established or utilized by the President of the United States, or established or
utilized by one or more agencies to obtain advice or recommendations for the President or one or
more Federal agencies or employees. As defined, “Advisory Committee” does not include any
committee that is composed solely of full-time or permanent part-time Federal employees or any
committee created by the National Academy of Sciences or the National Academy of Public
Administration.

E2.3. Alternate Designated Federal Officer. A full-time or permanent part-time Federal
employee appointed by the DoD Sponsor to assist the Committee’s appointed DFO. The
Alternate Designated Federal Officer may assist the DFO in the performance of his or her duties.

E2.4. Committee Management Officer (CMO). The individual designated by the DA&M to
manage and provide policy oversight to the Department of Defense Federal Advisory Committee
Management Program.

E2.5. Committee Management Secretariat (CMS) for the General Services Administration
(GSA). The organization established pursuant to section 7(a) of Reference (i), which is
responsible for all matters relating to Advisory Committees and carries out the responsibilities of
the Administrator of the GSA under References (d) and (e).

E2.6. Committee Meeting. Any gathering of Committee members (whether in person or
through electronic means) held with the approval of the DFO for the purpose of deliberating
on substantive matters for which the Committee provides advice or recommendations.

E2.7. Committee Member. An individual who serves by appointment or invitation on an
Advisory Committee or Subcommittee. A Committee member may be a Federal employee,
a private U.S. citizen, or employee of a U.S. State or local government.

E2.8. Committee Staff. Committee staff may include Federal employees (military or civilian),
private U.S. citizens, and other individuals (including contractors) who are not Committee
members, but serve in a support role to an Advisory Committee or Subcommittee.

E2.9. Defense Decorations. The Defense Distinguished Service Medal, the Defense Superior
Service Medal, the Defense Meritorious Service Medal, the Joint Service Commendation Medal,
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                                      15

and the Joint Service Achievement Medal.

E2.10. Designated Federal Officer (DFO). The full-time or permanent part-time Federal
employee appointed by the DoD Sponsor for a specific DoD-Supported Committee, who, as the
Federal government’s representative to the Committee, shall ensure the Committee’s compliance
with References (d) and (e).

E2.11. Discretionary Committee. Any Committee established under the authority of the
Secretary of Defense or authorized by statute. An Advisory Committee that is referred to in
general (non-specific) authorizing language or Congressional Committee report language is
discretionary, and its establishment or termination is within the legal discretion of the Secretary
of Defense.

E2.12. DoD-Supported Federal Advisory Committee (or “DoD-Supported Committee”). Any
Federal Advisory Committee subject to the provisions of References (d) and (e) that the
Secretary of Defense or the Department of Defense has been directed to support or that the
Secretary of Defense or designee has established.

E2.13. DoD Sponsor. The Component Head designated by the DA&M to sponsor a DoD-
Supported Federal Advisory Committee. The Component Heads shall be one of the OSD PSAs,
the Secretaries of the Military Departments, or the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

E2.14. Group Federal Officer (GFO). A full-time or permanent part-time Federal employee
appointed by the DoD Sponsor to assist the Sponsor in overseeing and managing the Sponsor’s
aspects of the Department of Defense Federal Advisory Committee Management Program.

E2.15. Intergovernmental Committee. Any Committee composed wholly of full-time or
permanent part-time officers or employees of the Federal government and elected officers of
State, local, and tribal governments (or their designated employees with authority to act on their
behalf), acting in their official capacities. The sole purpose of such a Committee shall be to
exchange views, information, or advice relating to the management or implementation of Federal
programs established pursuant to statute, that explicitly or inherently share intergovernmental
responsibilities or administration.

E2.16. Intragovernmental Committee. Any Committee composed wholly of full-time or
permanent part-time officers or employees of the Federal government.

E2.17. Non-Discretionary Advisory Committee. Any Committee required by statute or
Presidential Directive. A Non-Discretionary Advisory Committee that is required by statute is
generally identified by name, purpose, or functions, and its establishment or termination is
beyond the legal discretion of the Secretary of Defense.

E2.18. Preparatory Work Meeting. Meetings of two or more Committee members or
Subcommittee members convened solely to gather information, conduct research, or analyze
relevant issues and facts in preparation for a Committee meeting, or to draft position papers for
deliberation by the Committee.
16                                         DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010

E2.19. Principal Staff Assistant (PSA). Under this Instruction, the term “Principal Staff
Assistant” includes the Under Secretaries of Defense, the Assistant Secretaries of Defense, the
DoD GC, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Director of Operational
Test and Evaluation, the Assistants to the Secretary of Defense, the Director of the National
Reconnaissance Office, and other OSD Directors or equivalents who report directly to the
Secretary of Defense.

E2.20. Regular Government Employee (RGE). Under this Instruction, the term “Regular
Government Employee” refers generally to an individual employed within the meaning of
section 2105 of Reference (i), or a Federal officer as defined in section 2104 of Reference (i).
For purposes of the GSA’s Federal Advisory Committee Act (FACA) Database only, this
category also includes a Federal officer holding a position in the uniformed services.

E2.21. Special Government Employee (SGE). Under this Instruction, the term Special
Government Employee refers to an officer or employee of the Executive or Legislative Branch
who is retained, designated, appointed, or employed to perform temporary duties (either on a
full-time or intermittent basis) not to exceed 130 days during any period of 365 consecutive days.

E2.22. Subcommittee. A group, generally not subject to References (d) and (e), which reports to
an Advisory Committee and not directly to a Federal employee or agency, whether or not its
members are drawn in whole or in part from the parent Committee.

E2.23. (Added)(AF) Advisor. An individual considered to be a subject matter expert in a
particular field of study or employment. An advisor differs in definition from a
consultant in that an advisor’s interaction with an AF-sponsored FAC is limited to
presenting briefings or information at the invitation of the Committee and with the
approval of SAF/AA. An advisor is not considered a Special Government Employee
(SGE).

E2.24. (Added)(AF) AF Functional Sponsor. The Headquarters AF organization
identified as having the greatest involvement in and responsibility for subject areas
which will be the primary focus or object of the Committee’s recommendations or
advice.

E2.25. (Added)(AF) Committee Recommendation/Advice. An AF-sponsored Federal
Advisory Committee’s recommendation/advice is defined as one that has the potential to
impact AF policy or procedures.

E2.26. (Added)(AF) Committee Executive or Staff Director. An individual identified by
the AF functional sponsor of an AF-sponsored FAC to manage and administer the
Committee staff and assist the DFO.

E2.27. (Added)(AF) Consultant. An individual who is approved for appointment to serve
as an SGE on a temporary or intermittent basis to provide valuable and pertinent advice
generally drawn from a broad background of administrative, professional, or technical
knowledge or experience. Consultants are not typically compensated and are selected to
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                                 17


provide advice, views, opinions, alternatives, or recommendations on their area of
expertise. Consultants do not vote during FAC deliberations.

E2.28. (Added)(AF) Records Custodian. An individual, who is a full time government
employee, appointed to administer and manage an AF-sponsored FAC’s official records.

E2.29. (Added)(AF) Security Manager. An individual appointed to administer the
Committee’s information security program pursuant to Reference (ac).
18                                          DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010

                                        E3. ENCLOSURE 3

                                          PROCEDURES


E3.1. General Information on Advisory Committees

    E3.1.1. Committee Management. Committees play a significant role in shaping public policy
by providing independent advice and recommendations on a wide range of issues to the
Executive and Legislative Branches. To be effective, these independent entities of the Executive
and Legislative Branches must act and, more importantly, be perceived as balanced and
independent of any Executive Branch Agency that provides them with support.

        E3.1.1.1. Even though DoD-Supported Committees are independent of the Department of
Defense and are not considered part of the DoD organizational structure, they shall comply with
the policies and procedures prescribed by the Department of Defense, this Instruction, and any
rules and regulations governing the use of DoD appropriated funds, pursuant to Reference (d).

        E3.1.1.2. All DoD-Supported Committees shall be carefully managed and, unless
prescribed by statute, terminated when:

           E3.1.1.2.1. The stated objectives have been accomplished, the subject matter or work
of the Committee has become obsolete by the passing of time or their functions are assumed by
another entity.

            E3.1.1.2.2. The authorizing authority determines that the cost of operation exceeds
the benefits acquired by the Department of Defense.

           E3.1.1.2.3. In the case of a Discretionary Committee, upon the expiration of a period
not to exceed 2 years, unless renewed by the authorizing authority.

            E3.1.1.2.4. In the case of a Non-Discretionary Committee directed by Presidential
Directive, upon expiration of a period not to exceed 2 years, unless renewed by Presidential
Directive.

            E3.1.1.2.5. In the case of a Non-Discretionary Committee required by Statute, upon
the expiration of the time explicitly specified in the statute or implied by operation of the statute.

           E3.1.1.2.6. In the opinion of the Secretary of Defense, or designee, the Department
of Defense can no longer continue to support the Committee due to a declared National
Emergency. If this occurs, the Secretary of Defense, or designee, shall coordinate the
termination or realignment of responsibilities with the authority that established the Committee.

  E3.1.2. Committee Duration. Regardless of the Committee’s enabling authority, no
Committee lasts indefinitely.

       E3.1.2.1. DoD-Supported Committees may be terminated earlier than the expiration date
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                                     19

of their Charter if the President or the Secretary of Defense determine that the Committee is no
longer required under paragraph E3.1.1.2.

       E3.1.2.2. No Discretionary Committee shall be automatically renewed or able to
continue operations beyond the termination date of the Committee’s Charter without prior
approval from the DA&M.

         E3.1.2.3. Notwithstanding the Committee’s termination date, the Committee, providing
it has funding to cover expenses and obtains the written approval of the DA&M or the CMO,
may request its staff be allowed to operate beyond the termination date for the sole purpose of
concluding the Committee’s administrative activities (i.e., disseminating its final report,
inventorying classified information, or archiving the Committee’s official records). However,
such extensions shall be for no more than 30 days.

    E3.1.3. Public Participation. Committees, to the extent possible and pursuant to References
(d) and (e), shall open their meetings to the public. The public or interested groups, pursuant to
section 102-3.140(c) of Reference (d), shall be allowed to submit written statements to the
Committee for its consideration at any time or in response to the stated agenda of a planned
meeting; however, the public shall not participate in the Committee member’s deliberations,
unless otherwise authorized.

        E3.1.3.1. The DFO shall ensure that copies of all written statements received from the
public or interested groups are provided to each Committee member for their review and
consideration. In addition, the DFO shall ensure that copies of all such written statements are
archived with the Committee’s official records.

        E3.1.3.2. The DFO, in consultation with the Committee chairperson, may place
limitations (i.e., length of submission and time frame for submission) on written statements
submitted in response to the stated agenda for a planned meeting.

        E3.1.3.2. (Added)(AF) Neither the DFO nor the Committee chairperson may
limit the length of written statements submitted to the Committee for consideration
by a member of the public pursuant to Reference (ag).

        E3.1.3.3. The DFO, in consultation with the Committee chairperson, may allow the
public or interested groups to address the Committee at a particular Committee meeting.
However, prior to the meeting the DFO shall ensure that the Committee’s established guidelines
and procedures for addressing the Committee are announced in the Federal Register meeting
notice.

    E3.1.4. Administrative Matters. DoD-Supported Committees may use the U.S. Postal Service
in the same manner and under the same conditions as other DoD organizations; however, the use
of internal DoD mail distribution facilities shall be at the discretion of the DoD Sponsor. All
Committees, unless otherwise authorized by statute, shall comply with existing statutes and
international copyright and trademark agreements.
20                                       DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010

E3.2. Establishment of DoD-Supported Committees and Subcommittees

   E3.2.1. Establishment of DoD-Supported Committees. All requests to establish a DoD-
Supported Committee shall be submitted to the DA&M through the CMO by the appropriate
DoD Sponsor, and all requests, at a minimum, shall contain the elements listed in Appendix
1.

        E3.2.1.1 The CMO, on behalf of the DA&M, shall consult the CMS, as appropriate, on
the feasibility of establishing a new Committee and provide that information to the DA&M.

        E3.2.1.2. Pursuant to Reference (d), the establishment of Discretionary Committees shall
be kept to the absolute minimum required, and the decision to establish such Committees shall be
at the sole discretion of the Secretary of Defense or designee.

      E3.2.1.3. (Added)(AF) All requests to establish an AF-sponsored FAC shall be
submitted to the AF GFO for processing and shall address all the elements listed in
Appendix 1.

    E3.2.2. Establishment Authority for Subcommittees. When a DoD-Supported Committee is
authorized to establish Subcommittees, the decision to use them rests not with the Federal
government, but with the Committee Chairperson.

         E3.2.2.1. Once established the Subcommittee works for the Chairperson and shall report
all findings, advice, or recommendations to the Chairperson for deliberation by the full
Committee.

        E3.2.2.2. If a Committee Chairperson elects to establish a Subcommittee, the DFO shall
notify the CMO of the Subcommittee’s name, and the CMO shall enter the Subcommittee’s
name into the Committee’s section of the GSA’s FACA Database. Once the Subcommittee’s
name is entered, the DFO shall complete and maintain that portion of the Subcommittee’s
Database, as required by the CMO and this Instruction.

        E3.2.2.3. Subcommittee members, who are not already members of the parent
Committee, shall be appointed in the same manner in which Committee members are appointed.
In addition, each DoD-Supported Committee shall retain and archive documents pertaining to the
Subcommittee, including documentation on the Chairperson’s decision to establish the
Subcommittee.

       E3.2.2.4. (Added)(AF) The final decision to establish or terminate an AF
subcommittee will be made by the DFO. The DFO must provide the AF GFO
documentation required to support establishing a new subcommittee to an AF-sponsored
FAC, which shall include rationale; estimated number and frequency of meetings; number
of subcommittee members; location of meetings; and expected duration of the
subcommittee. This information will be used to ensure the DFO secures AF resources to
support the subcommittee and to ensure timely update of the GSA FACA Database.
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                                    21


        E3.2.2.4.1. (Added)(AF) The DFO for an AF-sponsored FAC shall notify the AF
GFO within 15 business days when a Committee chairperson requests the establishment of
a subcommittee or when a subcommittee is terminated, and the date the DFO approved
establishment or termination.

       E3.2.2.4.2. (Added)(AF) The AF GFO will notify the CMO of the new or terminated
subcommittee and in turn notify the DFO when the subcommittee has been added or
deleted in the GSA FACA Database.

    E3.2.3. Establishment of Non-Discretionary Advisory Committees as Subcommittees. The
DA&M, in consultation with the DoD GC, may establish a Non-Discretionary Committee as a
Subcommittee of a previously established DoD-Supported Committee. When such a
determination is made the newly established Subcommittee shall comply with all the provisions
of the enabling legislation. In addition, the Subcommittee, with the exception of having a filed
charter, shall comply with all the provisions of References (d) and (e) that apply to a chartered
Committee.

E3.3. DFO Appointments and Requirements

    E3.3.1. DFO Appointment. As the Federal government’s representative to the Committee,
the DFO works for the DoD Sponsor, the DA&M, and the CMO. The DFO is responsible for
ensuring that the Committee complies with the provisions of References (d) and (e), and this
Instruction.

       E3.3.1.1. Failure to appoint a DFO in a timely manner will adversely affect the
Committee’s ability to comply with the legal provisions of References (d) and (e). The DoD
Sponsor may appoint one individual to perform DFO duties on more than one Committee
under the Sponsor’s direction.

        E3.3.1.2. The DoD Sponsor shall ensure that the person who is appointed as a DFO is a
full-time or permanent part-time Federal employee. In addition, the DoD Sponsor shall ensure
that the DFO is not a member of the Committee (i.e., the Committee Chairperson or a Committee
member) and is not involved in the decision-making process for the Committee in which he or
she is performing DFO duties.

    E3.3.2. DFO Appointment Letter Composition. Within 10-business days of the DA&M’s
decision to establish a Discretionary Committee or to appoint a DoD Sponsor for a Non-
Discretionary Committee, the DoD Sponsor, or designee, shall appoint a DFO. A copy of the
signed appointment letter shall be provided to the GFO and the CMO, and convey, at a
minimum, the following information to the DFO:

       E3.3.2.1. The name of the DoD-Sponsored Committee to which the DFO has been
appointed.

        E3.3.2.2. That the DFO, as the Federal government’s representative to the Committee,
reports to the DoD Sponsor, the DA&M, and the CMO and is responsible for ensuring that
22                                         DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010

the Committee complies with the provisions of References (d) and (e) and this Instruction.

       E3.3.2.3. Who the DFO should contact in the DoD Sponsor’s GC office to receive the
appropriate orientation training on the Committee’s ethics requirements and the handling of
Financial Disclosure Reports.

       E3.3.2.3. (Added)(AF) The DFO for an AF-sponsored FAC shall contact
SAF/GCA within 15 business days of appointment to schedule orientation training on
the Committee’s ethics requirements and the proper handling of Financial Disclosure
Reports. A DFO for an AF-sponsored FAC that provides support from a location other
than the Headquarters Air Force (HAF) may contact the local AF installation staff judge
advocate within 15 business days of appointment to schedule orientation training on the
Committee’s ethics requirements and the proper handling of Financial Disclosure
Reports.

       E3.3.2.4. That the DFO, when performing his or her responsibilities, shall comply with
the provisions of References (d) and (e), this Instruction, and any other duties prescribed by the
DA&M or the CMO.

       E3.3.2.5. That the DFO shall attend the CMS Federal Advisory Committee Act Course
offered by the GSA at the earliest opportunity.

    E3.3.3. DFO and Committee Duties. While the DoD Sponsor may assign non-Committee
duties to a DFO that it appoints, no Committee shall assign duties or responsibilities to its
DFO without prior approval from the DA&M or the CMO.

   E3.3.3.1. (Added)(AF) AF-sponsored FACs shall submit requests to assign duties or
responsibilities to the DFO through the AF GFO for SAF/AA recommendation and
transmittal to DA&M or the ACMO.

    E3.3.4. Replacement or Removal of DFOs. Any DFO who is unable to perform his or her
DFO duties due to reassignment or termination of their service within the Department of Defense
shall be replaced. The DFO’s appointment may be revoked at any time by the DoD Sponsor or
the DA&M when, based on the opinion of the DoD Sponsor or the DA&M, the DFO is not
fulfilling his or her legal obligations to the Committee and/or the Department of Defense. The
DoD Sponsor shall coordinate all removal actions with the appropriate GC and the CMO.
Following removal of the DFO, the DoD Sponsor shall provide a replacement as soon as
possible.

    E3.3.4. (Added)(AF) The AF functional sponsor shall identify a replacement DFO to the
AF GFO within 15 business days of the outgoing DFO’s last day in that capacity. The AF
DFO will initiate a request to SAF/AA to formally appoint a replacement DFO. The
request must be coordinated through SAF/AAX. The AF GFO will provide a copy of the
signed appointment memorandum to the DoD CMO and notification when an Alternate
DFO is identified to serve as interim DFO until a new DFO is hired or appointed.
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                                    23

    E3.3.5. Appointment of Alternate DFOs. Depending upon the circumstances, the DoD
Sponsor may appoint one or more DoD employees to serve as Alternate DFOs. When appointed
the Alternate DFO shall:

    E3.3.5. (Added)(AF) An Alternate DFO appointed to an AF-sponsored FAC shall be a
full-time or permanent part-time Federal employee.

       E3.3.5.1. Not be considered a full-time substitute for the duly appointed DFO.

        E3.3.5.2. Perform the DFO duties only when the duly appointed DFO, due to unforeseen
circumstances (e.g., multiple Subcommittee meetings), is temporarily unable to attend to his or
her duties.

         E3.3.5.3. Make a public statement at the beginning of the Committee or Subcommittee
meeting that he or she is standing in for the DFO on a temporary basis and that he or she has
been duly appointed by the DoD Sponsor to act as the Committee’s Alternate DFO during the
DFO’s temporary absence. In addition, the Alternate DFO shall ensure that the meeting minutes
reflect that he or she is temporarily representing the Committee’s duly appointed DFO.

   E3.3.6. DFO Training. Each DoD Sponsor shall provide newly appointed DFOs with the
appropriate orientation training on ethics requirements and the handling of Financial Disclosure
Reports. In addition, DFOs and Alternate DFOs must attend the CMS Federal Advisory
Committee Act Course after initial appointment and every 3 years thereafter, for as long as they
remain DFOs or Alternate DFOs.

E3.3.6.1. (Added) (AF) DFOs and Alternate DFOs must attend the CMS FAC Act Course,
provided by GSA, within 90 days of initial appointment and every 3 years thereafter, for as
long as they remain DFOs or Alternate DFOs.

E3.4. Committee Charters

    E3.4.1. Preparation of Charters. The CMO, in coordination with the DFO and the DoD GC,
shall prepare the Committee’s Charter. The CMO shall ensure that the Charter conforms to the
elements listed in Appendix 2, complies with References (d) and (e), and any additional CMS
guidance. The DFO, as the DoD Sponsor’s appointed representative for the Committee, shall be
responsible for obtaining any coordination required by the DoD Sponsor.

   E3.4.1. (Added)(AF) The initiating AF functional sponsor will work through the AF
GFO to develop a draft Committee Charter upon notification from the CMO that DA&M
has approved the establishment of a new AF-sponsored discretionary committee. The AF
GFO will coordinate preliminary CMO approval of the Committee Charter prior to
obtaining SAF/GC coordination and SAF/AA approval.

  E3.4.2. CMS Consultation. Subsequent to the DoD GC approval of the draft Charter, the
CMO shall request CMS consultation.
24                                        DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010

       E3.4.2.1. For Discretionary Committees, the CMO’s written request shall include, at a
minimum, an explanation why the Advisory Committee is essential for DoD business and is in
the public interest; reasoning why the proposed Committee’s functions cannot be performed by
the Department of Defense, another existing Committee, or other means, such as a public
hearing; and a description of the plan to attain a fairly balanced membership.

        E3.4.2.2. With regards to Non-Discretionary Committees, the CMO’s written request
shall include the Committee’s applicable statute or Presidential Directive and provide any
additional relevant materials, as necessary.

    E3.4.3. Charter Filing Process. Following the CMS consultation, the CMO shall use the
following procedures to file the Committee’s charter:

       E3.4.3.1. Discretionary Committees. The CMO shall submit a Federal Register notice
with the OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer (FRLO) announcing the establishment of a
Discretionary Committee. Once the Federal Register notice has appeared for 15-calendar days in
the Federal Register, the CMO shall file the Charter with the Library of Congress and the
appropriate congressional committees. At the same time the Committee’s Charter is filed, the
CMO shall upload a PDF copy of the Charter to the GSA’s FACA Database.

       E3.4.3.2. Non-Discretionary Committees. The CMO shall file the Committee’s Charter
with the Library of Congress and the appropriate congressional committees. In addition, the
CMO shall upload a PDF copy of the Charter to the GSA’s FACA Database.

    E3.4.4. Charter’s Official Date. The Charter’s official date is the date that the CMO
officially transmits the Charter to the Library of Congress and the appropriate congressional
committees.

    E3.4.5. Charter Changes or Modifications. Once the Charter is filed, the Discretionary
Committee may not change its mission or purpose without prior approval from the DA&M. If
changes to the Committee’s mission are required, the CMO, in coordination with the DoD GC,
shall determine what steps are required. Non-Discretionary Committees, on the other hand, shall
not change their mission or purpose unless changes are made to the statute or Executive order
that established the Committee.

    E3.4.5. (Added)(AF) The DFO of an AF-sponsored FAC shall submit all requests to
amend a Committee Charter to the AF GFO. The AF GFO will obtain SAF/GC
coordination and SAF/AA approval of any changes that impact a Committee’s purpose,
structure, or operations before submitting to the CMO.

    E3.4.6. Renewal of Committee Charters. Charters for all DoD-Supported Committees,
unless renewed by the DA&M, terminate 2 years from the date that the CMO filed the Charter.

        E3.4.6.1. The DFO shall be responsible for submitting the renewal request, and all
renewal requests shall be submitted in writing no later than 90 days before the expiration date of
the current Charter.
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                                     25



        E3.4.6.2. The DFO, in consultation with the Committee Chairperson, shall submit his or
her written request through the DoD Sponsor and the CMO to the DA&M for final
determination. The DoD Sponsor shall review the DFO’s written request, indicating whether or
not the Committee should be renewed or terminated.

        E3.4.6.2. (Added)(AF) The DFO of an AF-sponsored FAC shall submit a charter
renewal request to the AF GFO no later than 105 calendar days prior to the expiration date
of the current charter. Charter renewal request for a discretionary committee shall
include: an explanation why the Committee continues to be essential to the AF and the
public interest; how the Committee plans to maintain a fair balance in membership, both
in diversity and opinion; a description of the Committee’s accomplishments and impact
upon the AF during the previous two years; and impact upon the AF if the Committee were
to be discontinued. Charter renewal request for a non-discretionary committee shall
provide a description of the Committee’s accomplishments and impact upon the AF during
the previous two years.

            E3.4.6.2.1. If the DoD Sponsor recommends renewal of the Committee’s Charter,
then he or she shall, at a minimum, indicate whether or not the Committee is accomplishing its
mission; provide rationale for the Committee’s continued operation; specify the Committee’s
accomplishments with regards to the Department of Defense; explain why the Committee’s
operations could not be performed by existing DoD resources and/or absorbed by another
existing DoD-Supported Committee; and indicate what type of impact the discontinuation of the
Committee could have on the Department of Defense.

          E3.4.6.2.1. (Added)(AF) The AF GFO will submit requests to renew or
terminate an AF-sponsored FAC Charter to SAF/GC for coordination and others as
appropriate, before seeking SAF/AA approval to recommend renewal or termination of
the Committee.

            E3.4.6.2.2. When a DoD Sponsor or designee determines that a Committee Charter
shall not be renewed, then he or she shall indicate the Committee’s past accomplishments
regarding the Department of Defense, how soon Committee termination should occur, and
whether or not legislative action is required for termination.

        E3.4.6.3. All Charter renewal requests shall be submitted to the CMO for action no later
than 90 days before the current Charter expires. Failure to submit the renewal request within
the prescribed timeframe may result in the Committee having to suspend its operations until the
renewal request is acted upon, or the CMS determines that the Department of Defense shall re-
establish the Committee.

        E3.4.6.4. If the renewal request is disapproved, then the Committee shall terminate all
actions no later than its scheduled termination date unless the DA&M authorizes the Committee
staff an additional period of time to close-out administrative actions pertaining to the Committee.
Regardless of whether or not a Discretionary Committee is given additional time to carry out its
termination, the DFO, in consultation with the CMO, shall ensure that:
26                                        DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010

           E3.4.6.4.1. All DoD personnel detailed to the Committee are returned to their parent
organizations with the appropriate personnel evaluations.

           E3.4.6.4.2. All National Security Information provided to the Committee is returned
to the appropriate Federal agencies or disposed of pursuant to existing statutes, Executive orders,
and regulations.

          E3.4.6.4.3. The Committee’s official records, pursuant to DoD policies and
procedures, are archived and transferred to the National Archives and Records Administration
(NARA) within 30 days of the Committee’s official termination date.

           E3.4.6.4.4. All Federal government property is accounted for and disposed of
pursuant to existing DoD policies and regulations and that all Federal government-leased
office space is returned to the appropriate authorities.

            E3.4.6.4.5. The Committee’s ACR is current and ready for CMO and CMS
verification, and if appropriate, the Committee completes the Annual Closed or Partially-Closed
Report.

E3.5. Committee Member Selection and Appointment Process

    E3.5.1. Committee Member Selection. Individual Committee members shall be free from
significant conflicts of interest to ensure that Committee members provide independent and
balanced advice to the Federal government. While the CMO is not involved in the Committee
member selection or approval process, the CMO shall be immediately advised of any changes
to the membership numbers or selection process that may impact the Committee’s Charter.

    E3.5.2. Committee Chairperson Selection Process. All DoD-Supported Committees, unless
otherwise prohibited by statute or Executive order, shall have a Chairperson, and the selection
process shall be mentioned in the Committee’s Charter. If the authorizing authority or the
Committee’s Charter does not indicate how the Chairperson shall be selected, then the
Committee members shall select the Chairperson by majority vote.

   E3.5.3. Committee Member Nominations. All Committee member nominations shall be
handled in a confidential manner until the nominations have been approved.

        E3.5.3.1. The DoD Sponsor, unless otherwise directed by statute or Presidential directive,
shall nominate to the Secretary of Defense qualified individuals to serve as Committee members,
including Federal officers and employees.

      E3.5.3.2. Any discussion with the nominee about his or her participation on the
Committee shall be limited until the Secretary of Defense or designee has approved the
nominee’s appointment.

       E3.5.3.3. The DoD Sponsor, in developing a list of candidates, may assess the points of
view of prospective candidates, including published articles, testimony, speeches, various legal
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                                      27

forums (particularly legal testimony), research conducted on related matters, sources of funding
for research and other similar activities, and interests of their employers or clients in specific
areas. The DoD Sponsor may include candidates with demonstrated professional or technical
qualifications when Committee membership requires technical expertise.

       E3.5.3.4. The Secretary of Defense, unless otherwise directed, shall determine the actual
number of Committee members to be appointed and any special qualifications required. Once
approved by the Secretary of Defense and appointed, all Committee members, unless otherwise
authorized by statute or Executive order, shall serve at the discretion of the Secretary of Defense.

        E3.5.3.5. (Added)(AF) The DFO for an AF-sponsored FAC shall submit requests to
appoint new members to SAF/AAA 100 calendar days prior to intended appointment date,
and provide a copy to SAF/AAX as the AF GFO. The request shall include a list of names
identifying which nominee(s) have requested compensation in accordance with Enclosure 4,
Air Force Compensation Guidance; a current resume or curriculum vitae, and a DD Form
2292, Request for Appointment or Renewal of Appointment of Consultant or Expert that
reflects the compensation, the duties to be performed and the expertise and qualifications
of the nominee that are essential to accomplishing the Committee’s mission. The SAF/AAA
will coordinate DoD GC and WHLO as appropriate after seeking SAF/AA approval to
recommend the nominees to the Office of the Secretary of Defense using the FACA Action
Memo template at Appendix 4.

    E3.5.4. Committee Member Appointments and Reappointments. Once Committee member
nominations are approved by the Secretary of Defense, the DoD Sponsor may proceed with the
appointment process for approved Committee members. Prospective Committee members, who
are not full-time or permanent part-time Federal employees, unless otherwise authorized by
statute or Executive order, shall be appointed on an annual basis pursuant to section 3109 of
Reference (i), and shall be considered a Special Government Employee (SGE). Concurrent
appointments as an SGE may be held with other DoD-Supported Committees or in another
Federal agency.

    E3.5.5. Committee Member Appointment Process. The DoD Sponsor’s personnel office,
pursuant to existing statutes, regulations, and this Instruction, shall process the necessary
paperwork to appoint individual Committee members who are not current Federal employees as
either experts or consultants, pursuant to Reference (i), or full or part-time Federal government
employees, as appropriate.

         E3.5.5.1. All prospective Committee members, when formally notified of their
appointment by the appropriate DoD Sponsor, shall be advised of their appointment authority
(e.g., section 3109 of Reference (i)), and whether they are considered a SGE or Regular
Government Employee (RGE).

        E3.5.5.2. No prospective Committee member shall be officially appointed until the DoD
Sponsor’s personnel office and the appropriate GC have completed all administrative matters
pertaining to the Committee member’s appointment. Administrative matters, at a minimum,
shall include compliance with Federal government ethics requirements by filing the necessary
28                                       DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010

Financial Disclosure Reports and certification by the Federal government’s reviewing authority
and completing the required personnel paperwork (e.g., appointment affidavits, proof of
citizenship, security clearances, if required).

        E3.5.5.3. While each DoD Sponsor may require Committee members to complete
Component-unique personnel forms, all Committee members who are not full-time Federal
officers or employees, when appointed, shall be required, at a minimum, to complete the
paperwork listed in Appendix 3. Notwithstanding, the DoD Sponsor’s personnel office or the
appropriate GC may accept previously submitted appointment paperwork that the prospective
Committee member filed for a different Committee or another appointment, as long as the
paperwork is verified as current.

        E3.5.5.4. (Added)(AF). The DFO will work with SAF/GCA, or the local AF
installation SJA as described in E3.3.2.3. (Added)(AF), to ensure that nominees
recommended for appointment as new members submit the appropriate Financial
Disclosure Reports and they are reviewed for potential conflicts of interest pursuant to
Reference (p), Chapter 7. SAF/GCA, or AF installation SJA as applicable, will be
responsible for maintaining Financial Disclosure Reports pursuant to Reference (p),
Chapter 7. SAF/GCA will be responsible pursuant to Reference (p), Chapter 11 for
developing initial ethics training for all new members, which shall be administered by
SAF/GCA or the local installation SJA as applicable. SAF/GCA or SJA will notify the
DFO and SAF/AAA as each nominee is cleared for appointment with no apparent conflicts
of interest. Upon receipt of those notifications and the Secretary of Defense package
approving new Committee members to an AF-sponsored FAC, SAF/AAA will begin the
formal appointment process. SAF/AAA, under normal circumstances, will complete
formal appointment actions within 30-business days of their receipt of completed
documents listed at Appendix 3. The AF GFO will maintain a copy of the package
provided by SAF/AAA, and SAF/AAA will provide the DFO the original approval package
to be maintained as part of the Committee’s official files.

        E3.5.5.5. (Added)(AF) The DFO or Committee Exec of an AF-sponsored FAC whose
membership is directed by statute or Presidential directive, shall identify to the AF GFO
when appointment notification of a new member is received. The DFO or Committee Exec
shall work with SAF/AAA to ensure documentation is completed to formally document the
new member’s appointment as an intermittent employee of the AF, serving as an SGE, who
is not already a regular government employee.

      E3.5.5.6 (Added)(AF) The chronological steps to be taken during the appointment
and reappointment process are as follows:

             E3.5.5.6.a (Added)(AF) DFO shall provide a consolidated list of all members
being nominated for appointment or reappointment, the members’ biographies and DD
Forms 2292 to SAF/AAA with a courtesy copy to the AF GFO (SAF/AAX) no less than 100
calendar days prior to intended appointment date.
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                                 29


               E3.5.5.6.b (Added)(AF) SAF/AAA, through the Office of the Special
Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for White House Liaison and DoD GC, will forward
nomination list to the Secretary of Defense for approval using the FACA Action Memo
template at Appendix 4. SAF/AAA will also coordinate the nomination package with all
appropriate Air Force organizations.

      E3.5.5.6.c. (Added)(AF) Upon approval, SAF/AAA will notify the DFO and GFO of
approval and the DFO shall then provide all required personnel paperwork listed in
Appendix 3 to SAF/AAA. Concurrently, the DFO will contact the approved nominees to
provide the OGC Forms 450. The approved nominees will provide the completed OGC
Form 450 to SAF/GCA to ensure there are no potential conflicts of interest.

       E3.5.5.6.d.(Added)(AF) Within 30 business days of receipt of all required
paperwork listed in Appendix 3 and approval of OGC Forms 450 from SAF/GCA,
SAF/AAA will generate the personnel actions (SF-50) appointing the members as Special
Government Employees for one-year. SAF/AAA will provide the SF-50s to the members
and administer the Oath of Office, except for members of the Air University Board of
Visitors. Due to their geographical separation from SAF/AAA, the local installation
Civilian Personnel Office will administer the Oath of Office.

    E3.5.6. Committee Member Reappointment Process. Committee members may be
reappointed once their one-year appointment expires; however, they cannot conduct Committee
business until their reappointment is approved. In coordination with the Committee Chairperson
and under the authority, direction, and control of the DoD Sponsor, the DFO shall request
reappointment of the appropriate Committee members.

        E3.5.6.1. All reappointment requests shall be forwarded to the Secretary of Defense no
later than 60 days prior to the Committee member’s appointment expiration date. If the
approving authority approves the reappointment then the DoD Sponsor, in coordination with the
DFO, shall ensure that the Committee member completes all the required paperwork prior to his
or her reappointment.

          E3.5.6.1.1. (Added)(AF) The DFO, or Committee Exec for an AF-sponsored
FAC whose membership is not established under statute or Presidential directive shall
submit requests to reappoint members to SAF/AAA 100 calendar days in advance of need.
The request shall include a list of names designating which nominee(s) have requested
compensation, a written justification for each nominee that requests compensation; a
current resume or curriculum vitae, and a DD Form 2292, Request for Appointment or
Renewal of Appointment of Consultant or Expert, for each reappointment nominee. The
SAF/AAA will coordinate with others as appropriate before seeking SAF/AA approval to
recommend the reappointment nominees to the Office of the Secretary of Defense.

           E3.5.6.1.2. (Added)(AF) The DFO will work with SAF/GCA, or the local AF
installation SJA as described in E3.3.2.3. (Added)(AF), to ensure that nominees
recommended for reappointment submit the appropriate Financial Disclosure Reports
and they are reviewed for potential conflicts of interest pursuant to Reference (p),
30                                      DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010


Chapter 7. SAF/GCA, or AF installation SJA as applicable, will be responsible for
maintaining Financial Disclosure Reports pursuant to Reference (p), Chapter 7.
SAF/GCA will be responsible pursuant to Reference (p), Chapter 11 for developing
refresher ethics training for all reappointed members, which shall be administered by
SAF/GCA or the local installation SJA as applicable. SAF/GCA or SJA will notify the
DFO and SAF/AAA as each nominee is cleared for reappointment with no apparent
conflicts of interest. Upon receipt of those notifications and the Secretary of Defense
package approving reappointed Committee members, SAF/AAA will begin the formal
reappointment process. SAF/AAA, under normal circumstances, will complete formal
reappointment actions within 30-business days of their receipt of approval from the
Secretary of Defense. The AF GFO will maintain a copy of the package provided by
SAF/AAA and SAF/AAA will provide the DFO the original approval package to be
maintained as part of the Committee’s official files.

           E3.5.6.1.3. (Added)(AF) The DFO or Committee Exec of an AF-sponsored FAC
whose membership is directed by statute or Presidential directive, shall inform the AF
GFO when notification of reappointment of a member is received. The DFO or
Committee Exec shall work with SAF/AAA to ensure documentation is completed to
formally record the member’s reappointment as an intermittent employee of the AF,
serving as an SGE who is not already a regular government employee.

       E3.5.6.2. Committee members who are SGEs shall file a new Financial Disclosure Report
along with providing the DoD Sponsor’s personnel office a current resume or curriculum vitae.

    E3.5.7. Committee Member Resignation Process. Committee members may resign their
appointment at any time prior to the termination of their appointment. Resignations shall be
submitted to the Committee Chairperson in writing, and the Chairperson or the DFO shall notify
the CMO, the DoD Sponsor, and the DoD Sponsor’s personnel office. The DoD Sponsor, if
necessary, shall nominate a replacement pursuant to the policies of this Instruction.

    E3.5.7. (Added)(AF) The DFO or Committee Exec for an AF-sponsored FAC shall
notify the AF GFO of the resignation or death of any member within 30-calendar days of
the receipt of that resignation or notification of death. The AF GFO will notify SAF/AAA
so that termination actions can be initiated. The DFO will ensure the GSA FACA database
is updated within 30-calendar days to reflect the member’s resignation or death.

   E3.5.8. Committee Member Appointment Limitations. Pursuant to section 202 of 18 U.S.C.
(Reference (l)), no SGE shall serve as a Committee member for more than 130 days in any
consecutive 365-day period.

E3.6. Committee Staffing Process

    E3.6.1. Staffing. The Department of Defense does not fund manpower authorizations for
DoD-Supported Federal Advisory Committees. Instead, the Department of Defense normally
assists the Committee by hiring Federal employees, or consultants, contracting for external
contractors, or detailing Federal employees from other Federal Agencies.
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                                     31

        E3.6.1.1. Within the Federal government, the normal procedure is to provide staffing
support using full-time or permanent part-time Federal employees, including members of the
Military Services, from the Federal agency that supports the Committee. This process of
detailing personnel is normally done on a non-reimbursement basis.

        E3.6.1.2. While the DoD Sponsor may be involved with establishing the Committee or
determining its approved funding levels, the actual makeup of the Committee staff (i.e., the
number of staff or the required skill sets) is typically determined by the Committee’s Executive
or Staff Director and shall be kept to the minimum number of people required to accomplish the
Committee’s mission goals and objectives.

        E3.6.1.2. (Added)(AF) The AF functional sponsor of an advisory committee may
assign a Committee Exec, to serve as the primary point of contact for all matters relating to
Committee staff. The designated Committee Exec will be responsible for identifying the
manning requirements for the Committee staff and coordinating the approval and securing
of staff through the AF functional sponsor and with SAF/AA through the AF GFO.

    E3.6.2. Detailing DoD Personnel. Committees, unless prohibited by statute or Executive
order, may request that full-time or permanent part-time DoD employees, including members of
the Military Services be detailed, without reimbursement, to assist the Committee with its work.

        E3.6.2.1. The use of detailed members of the Military Services shall be kept to an
absolute minimum and shall be approved only when deemed essential, pursuant to paragraph
3.2.3 of DoD Directive 1100.4 (Reference (m)).

           E3.6.2.1.1. Only full-time or permanent part-time DoD employees or members of the
Military Services officially assigned to the locality of the Committee’s official location shall be
considered for detail. Individuals that possess unique skills or expertise who are stationed outside
of the Committee’s official locality may be considered for a short-term detail; however, such
individuals shall be detailed only in a temporary duty (TDY) status, and the Committee shall pay
all TDY costs associated with the individual’s TDY assignment.

          E3.6.2.1.2. The DFO shall ensure that performance evaluations of Federal
employees, to include members of the Military Services, are completed pursuant to applicable
DoD or Military Service policies and procedures.

           E3.6.2.1.2 (Added)(AF) The DFO, or Committee Exec when one is designated,
for an AF-sponsored FAC shall ensure that performance evaluations of detailed members
of the Military Services, whose primary duty is to provide support to an AF-sponsored
FAC, are completed pursuant to applicable Military Service policies and procedures.

            E3.6.2.1.3. The needs of the Military Services and individual career development, to
include promotion implications, shall be the overriding factors when evaluating a Committee’s
request to detail members of the Military Services to Committees.

           E3.6.2.1.4. The duty of commissioned officers of the Military Services who are
32                                       DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010

detailed to Committees or serve as Committee members shall not be considered as joint duty
pursuant to Chapter 38 of 10 U.S.C. (Reference (n)). In addition, the duty of members of the
Uniformed Services who are detailed to Committees or serve as Committee members shall not be
considered eligibility toward the award of Defense Decorations, the OSD Identification Badge,
or the Joint Staff Identification Badge.

       E3.6.2.2. When a Committee is initially established or the charter for an existing
Committee is renewed, the DA&M, in coordination with the DoD GC, shall determine whether
the Committee shall comply with the policies and procedures outlined in DoD Directive
1000.17 (Reference (o)).

        E3.6.2.3. Committees that are required to comply with Reference (o) shall submit their
detail requests through their DoD Sponsor to the appropriate approval authority.

        E3.6.2.4. Committees that are not required to comply with Reference (o) shall submit
their detail requests to the appropriate DoD Sponsor for action.

           E3.6.2.4.1. To minimize costs and personnel disruption, the DoD Sponsor shall
determine if he or she has adequate resources to meet the requested requirements. If the DoD
Sponsor lacks adequate resources, he or she may deny the Committee's request or seek assistance
from another DoD Component within the Committee’s official locale.

            E3.6.2.4.2. On a quarterly basis, the DFO shall provide the CMO with a list of all
DoD personnel who have been detailed to the Committee. This list shall indicate the name,
rank, occupational specialty, parent organization, date of detail to the Committee, duration of
detail, approval authority for the detail (list parent organization and DoD Sponsor), and the
detailed member’s date of return to his or her parent organization. The CMO shall maintain this
information on a permanent basis with the CMO’s official files.

           E3.6.2.4.2. (Added)(AF) The DFO or Committee Exec for an AF-sponsored
FAC with detailed members of the Military Services whose primary duty is to provide
support to an AF-sponsored FAC, shall, consistent with the requirements set out above,
provide the AF GFO with the list of names no later than the seventh day of the month
beginning each quarter of the fiscal year. The AF GFO will provide a consolidated listing
of personnel detailed in support of an AF-sponsored FAC to the CMO no later than the
15th calendar day of the first month of each quarter of the fiscal year (October, January,
April and July).

   E3.6.3. Hiring Committee Staff. Prior to hiring any Committee staff, the DoD Sponsor, in
consultation with the appropriate GC and Human Resources Office, shall determine what level of
support the Department of Defense can provide to the Committee.

        E3.6.3.1. Congressional Authority. Occasionally, Congress will provide specific hiring
authority for Non-Discretionary Committees. In addition, some Discretionary and Non-
Discretionary Committees may qualify for temporary authority under section 3161 of Reference
(i), which provides the authority to hire temporary Federal employees.
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                                     33

        E3.6.3.2. Agency Authority. The DoD Sponsor may authorize the Committee to hire
full-time or permanent part-time DoD employees, consultants or contractors, depending on
the appropriations granted to the Committee by the Department of Defense and pursuant to
established Component policies and procedures.

      E3.6.3.2. (Added)(AF) Prior to hiring any Committee staff the AF functional
sponsor shall identify through the AF GFO to SAF/AA the level of support they will
provide to include all projected operating and maintenance and manpower costs.

            E3.6.3.2.1. When a long-term Committee does not have congressional authority to
hire staff personnel, the DoD Sponsor may determine that a small, permanent full-time
Committee staff (e.g., the Office of the Military Director for the Defense Advisory
Committee on Women in the Services) is in the best interest of the Department of Defense.

           E3.6.3.2.2. When such a determination is made, the DoD Sponsor may align the
Committee staff under any organization that is formally assigned to the DoD Sponsor by
applicable statutes, DoD regulations, subject to the funding limitations and restrictions of the
DoD Sponsor and the Committee. Both the DoD Sponsor and authorized permanent
Committee staff shall exercise caution in order to maintain transparency of the Committee’s
work, to ensure that the DoD Sponsor or other DoD officials are not influencing the
Committee’s work through the permanent Committee staff, and to ensure that the Committee
does not interfere with the responsibilities of the DoD Sponsor or other DoD officials through
inappropriate use of the Committee’s permanent staff.

          E3.6.3.2.2. (Added)(AF) The organizational alignment of Committee staff
supporting an AF-sponsored FAC will be coordinated through the AF GFO and HAF/HR
before being submitted for SAF/AA approval.

E3.7. Compensation

    E3.7.1. Member Compensation. Committee members, unless otherwise authorized by statute,
normally do not receive compensation for their service on the Committee. However, in cases in
which the DA&M has determined that certain Committees shall be sponsored by the Military
Departments, and the Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries of the Military Departments are
authorized to administratively determine pay, these entities, unless otherwise prohibited, may
authorize the compensation of Committee members when deemed essential and pursuant to
section 102-3.130(d) of Reference (d) and established DoD policies.

   E3.7.1. (Added)(AF) Member and consultant nominees to AF-sponsored FACs shall be
encouraged to serve without compensation. Member and consultant compensation
decisions will be made by SAF/AA based upon criteria established in Enclosure 4. The
process for submitting nominations for individuals requesting compensation is stated in
paragraph E3.5.6.1.1. of this publication.

   E3.7.2. Committee Staff Compensation. Committee staff shall be compensated for their
work on the Committee. When the Secretary of Defense or the Secretaries of the Military
34                                         DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010

Departments, pursuant to section 102-3.130(e) (Reference (d)) and established DoD policies, are
authorized to determine the compensation of Committee staff, then they shall do so pursuant to
Reference (d).

E3.8. Government Ethics

    E3.8.1. Ethics and Conflict of Interest Requirements. All Committee members and
Committee staff, unless otherwise determined by the DoD Sponsor’s GC, shall comply with the
standards of ethical conduct for employees of the Federal government, pursuant to DoD
5500.7-R (Reference (p)). Any questions pertaining to ethical issues, particularly
representational activities, as set forth in sections 203, 205 and 207 of Reference (l), shall be
handled by the DoD Sponsor’s GC. Additionally, the DFO shall assist the DoD Sponsor’s GC
with ensuring the Committee’s compliance with the appropriate ethics and conflict of interest
rules by:

       E3.8.1.1. Ensuring effective training and timely dissemination of information on ethical
standards, procedures, and compliance for the Committee, including potential restrictions on
post-government employment.

       E3.8.1.2. Maintaining records on all Committee members and Committee staff who
receive conflict of interest training and counseling.

      E3.8.1.3. Notifying the appropriate DoD agencies of any allegations of potential
misconduct by Committee members or Committee staff.

   E3.8.2. Handling Completed Financial Disclosure Reports. All completed Financial
Disclosure Reports shall be protected from unauthorized access or disclosure. No one within the
Department of Defense, other than the individual who is filing the Financial Disclosure Report
and the appropriate GC, shall retain copies of completed Financial Disclosure Reports.

        E3.8.2.1. The DFO, who is normally the DoD Reviewing Official for Financial
Disclosure Reports, shall review all Financial Disclosure Reports to determine if the filer has a
potential conflict of interest. When determining whether a potential conflict of interests exists,
the DFO shall also consult with the appropriate GC. The DFO’s review shall take place prior to
the individual being appointed, reappointed, or hired.

        E3.8.2.2. If a conflict of interest exists, the DFO, in consultation with the DoD Sponsor’s
GC, shall determine whether a conflict-of-interest waiver shall be granted or if the person shall
be replaced. The DFO, at the Committee’s public meeting, shall notify the Committee of any
conflict-of-interest waivers that are granted. The DFO’s announcement shall only indicate the
name of the individual concerned and the type of waiver granted.

       E3.8.2.3. To facilitate communications between the DoD Sponsor’s GC and the
individual filers, the DFO shall provide the GC with an e-mail address for each person on the
Committee who is required to file a Financial Disclosure Report. The e-mail addresses shall
be provided at the same time the Financial Disclosure Reports are filed with the DoD
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                                    35

Sponsor’s GC, and the e-mail address provided shall be one that the individual checks
frequently.

    E3.8.3. Annual Submission of Financial Disclosure Reports. Individuals required to file a
financial disclosure report (OGE Form 450, “Confidential Financial Disclosure Report” or
approved alternative form, or Standard Form 278, “Executive Branch Personnel Public Financial
Disclosure”), who remain on the Committee, shall file a new financial disclosure report no later
than one year after the previous report was submitted. The DFO shall ensure that each person
files a new financial disclosure report and that anyone who fails to comply with the annual
submission requirement shall be prohibited from participating in any Committee work until the
report is filed.

    E3.8.4. Foreign Activities Questionnaire. All SGEs shall file a DD Form 2859 with the DoD
Sponsor’s GC prior to their appointments. A new DD Form 2859 shall be filed with the DoD
Sponsor’s GC prior to their reappointment. The DFO, unless otherwise directed, shall ensure
that the Committee member complies with initial and subsequent submissions of the DD Form
2859.

E3.9. Security Management

   E3.9.1. Disclosure of National Security Information. All DoD-Supported Federal Advisory
Committees shall comply with DoD 5200.1-R (Reference (q)). Furthermore, no Committee
member or Committee staff, including individuals who are detailed to the Committee, shall be
provided access to National Security Information without the appropriate security clearances,
“need to know,” and completed Standard Form 312, “Classified Information Non-Disclosure
Agreement.” Non-government employees (e.g., contractors) who are employed by the
Committee shall have an approved contract and DD Form 254, “DoD Contract Security
Classification Specification,” on file with the Department of Defense.

    E3.9.2. Safeguarding National Security Information. The DFO shall be responsible for
safeguarding all National Security Information that is provided to DoD-Supported Committees
and ensuring that Committees comply with DoD policies and procedures that deal with
National Security Information.

    E3.9.3. Security Manager Appointments. A full-time or permanent part-time Federal
employee shall be appointed as a Security Manager for all DoD-Supported Committees. This
individual shall work under the authority, direction, and control of the Committee’s DFO and
shall comply with Reference (q) and all other Directives or Instructions that are issued by the
DoD Sponsor’s Security Manager, or the WHS Security Manager for the Committees that the
DA&M has directed the Department of Defense, Washington Headquarters Services (WHS), to
support. Committee security managers shall be trained and receive support from the Committee’s
senior leadership.

     E3.9.3. (Added)(AF) AF-sponsored FACs shall have an appointed Security Manager at
all times. The DFO to an AF-sponsored FAC shall appoint a Security Manager, and
alternate Security Manager as appropriate, pursuant to AFI , Information Security
36                                         DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010


Program Management (Reference (ab)). The DFO will ensure appointee meets the
requirements and complies with the guidance in AFI 31-401 (Reference (ac)). A copy of the
appointment documentation shall be provided to the designated Information Security
Program Manager and the AF GFO within 15-business days of appointment.

    E3.9.4. Documentation. Receipts for classified material shall be used by all Federal
Agencies that provide National Security Information to DoD-Supported Committees, and the
Committees shall retain copies of all receipts that are provided. Copies of all receipts shall be
provided to the DoD Sponsor’s security manager upon request, or when the Committee
terminates its operations.

    E3.9.5. Security Reviews. Any DoD-Supported Committee that receives National Security
Information from any Federal agency shall obtain the appropriate security reviews prior to the
release of information to the public. Releases to the public include, but are not limited to, news
releases, public reports and open meetings.

       E3.9.5.1. During the security review, DoD officials may propose changes to the
Committee’s documents to ensure classified material is not compromised and that documents
have the proper security classification. However, no DoD officials shall make editorial changes
to any Committee document that impacts the Committee’s statutory and regulatory role to
provide “independent advice and recommendations” to the Executive and/or Legislative
Branches.

       E3.9.5.2. The Committee shall retain copies of the security reviews and archive them
with the Committee’s records.

              E3.9.5.2.1. (Added)(AF) Any and all documents provided to the Committees
by the Air Force must be properly marked with the appropriate DoD Distribution
Statements and classified markings/declassification schedules, as appropriate.

E3.10. Travel and Transportation Procedures

    E3.10.1. Travel and Transportation for Committee Members and Staff. Pursuant to the Joint
Federal Travel Regulations (JFTR), Volume 1 (Reference (r)) and JFTR, Volume 2 (Reference
(s)), Committee members and staff may travel on military transportation assets when travel is
required to perform official Committee business, except when the cost of commercial
transportation is less expensive. Travel through commercial means shall be in a manner
consistent with References (r) and (s).

    E3.10.2. All official travel by Committee members and staff, with the exception of non-
government employees (e.g., contractors), that takes place outside of the vicinity of the
Committee’s official address or the Committee member’s primary residence or place of business
shall be on official TDY orders issued by the Department of Defense.

        E3.10.2.1. The Department of Defense, through the DoD Sponsor and pursuant to
existing DoD rules and regulations, may issue the necessary TDY orders for the Committee or
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                                 37

provide the Committee the ability to issue its own TDY orders.

        E3.10.2.2. Committee members required to travel on official Committee business prior to
their appointment to the Committee, shall travel on Invitational Travel Orders (ITO) issued by
the DoD Sponsor. Such travel would normally be to receive administrative information from
DoD employees prior to taking the oath of office (e.g., ethics briefings).

    E3.10.3. Premium-Class Travel Accommodations. No Committee member, Committee staff,
or guests of any DoD-Supported Committee, unless specifically authorized, shall use DoD
appropriated funds to pay for premium-class travel accommodations, as defined by the
Department of Defense. Exceptions to this policy, when required, shall only be authorized by:

      E3.10.3.1. The DA&M when the DoD Sponsor is one of the OSD PSAs, Defense
Agencies, or Defense Field Activities.

       E3.10.3.2. The Secretaries of the Military Departments for the respective Committees in
which the DA&M has designated them as DoD Sponsors (e.g., the Secretary of the Army is the
DoD Sponsor for the Army Education Committee). The Secretaries of the Military Departments
may delegate this authority, but no lower than the Assistant Secretary level provided that the
delegated authority is not serving in any capacity on the respective Committee.

       E3.10.3.2. (Added)(AF) In accordance with AFI 24-101 (Reference (af)), SAF/AA is
the designated authority to approve exceptions to funding premium-class travel
accommodations using appropriated funds for all AF-sponsored FAC members and staff.

      E3.10.3.3. The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for those Committees that the
DA&M designated him or her as the DoD Sponsor. The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
may delegate this authority, but no lower than the Director of the Joint Staff.

     E3.10.4. Personal Assistants for Committee Members with Disabilities. Any Committee
member with disabilities who is entitled to the services of a Personal Assistant, pursuant to
section 3102 of Reference (i) and Section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended,
(Reference (t)), shall be authorized to have the Personal Assistant accompany them on official
Committee business. The Personal Assistant shall travel on official TDY orders and be entitled
to the same travel and transportation allowances authorized for the Committee member he or she
is accompanying and when required by the Committee member’s disability, shall be authorized,
if required, seating adjacent to the Committee member.

E3.11. Financial Management

    E3.11.1. Committee Financial Management. Financial disclosure by the Committee, its
Committee members, and, when appropriate, its Committee staff is key to the integrity of the
Committee and the overall Department of Defense Federal Advisory Committee Management
Program. Each Committee shall establish comprehensive policies and procedures to govern their
financial management practices and maintain financial records to support expenditure of public
funds, enforcement of travel regulations, and adherence to DoD Directive 5015.2 (Reference
38                                         DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010

(u)).

    E3.11.1. (Added)(AF) The DFO, or Committee Exec when assigned, to an AF-sponsored
FAC shall be responsible for ensuring the Committee financial management practices and
financial records support expenditure of public funds, compliance with travel regulations
and adherence to DoD financial management policy and guidance as well as AFI 65-601,
Vol 1 (Reference (ad)).

   E3.11.2. Funding Source. DoD-Supported Committees, unless funded by statute,
Presidential Directive, or otherwise determined by the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense
(Comptroller) (USD(C)), shall be funded from amounts appropriated for the Department of
Defense for operation and maintenance accounts.

      E3.11.2.1. The DoD Sponsor, through their Comptroller, shall provide funding for the
Committee’s operation in keeping with budget guidance issued by the USD(C). All appropriated
DoD funds remaining after termination of the Committee shall revert to the Department of
Defense pursuant to existing statutes, Executive orders, and regulations.

     E3.11.2.2. The Committee’s DoD Sponsor, when determining funding levels for the
Committees that it sponsors, shall prescribe what budget submission documentation is required.

        E3.11.2.3. Whenever the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff is designated the DoD
Sponsor, adequate support for the Committee, including funding, unless otherwise directed by
the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, shall be provided by the organization that the
Committee is providing independent advice and recommendations to (e.g., the United States
Strategic Command Advisory Group shall be provided adequate support by the U.S. Strategic
Command).

    E3.11.3. Funding Levels. The Department of Defense, pursuant to its budget restrictions,
may be unable to provide full funding for the Committee. As a consequence, actual funding
levels for DoD-Supported Committees, unless otherwise stated, shall be determined by the
DoD Sponsor.

    E3.11.4. Funding Limitations. DoD Sponsors shall ensure that no DoD appropriated funds
are expended for Committee operations prior to the approval of the Committee members’
appointment by the appointing authority.

        E3.11.4.1. The DoD Sponsor, prior to the appointment of Committee members, may
authorize the expenditure of DoD appropriated funds for the purpose of procuring infrastructure
support (e.g., Information Technology, telecommunication), leasing agreements, or to enable
Committee members, prior to taking their oath of office, to attend an Administrative or
Preparatory Work Meeting. The DoD Sponsor may delegate this authority, but no lower than the
Assistant Secretary level or the three-star flag officer equivalent provided the delegated authority
is not serving in any capacity on the Committee in question.
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                                      39


       E3.11.4.1. (Added)(AF) The expenditure of DOD appropriated funds will not be
authorized for any member or consultant nominee to an AF-sponsored FAC until the AF
GFO receives documentation reflecting the Secretary of Defense or designee’s approval to
appoint the nominee, and the nominee has submitted all required completed employment
documentation; and appropriate authorities have received, reviewed and approved security
and financial disclosure documents.

        E3.11.4.2. The DoD Sponsor shall ensure that no DoD-appropriated permanent change of
station (PCS) funds are used to support the Committee’s operations for either PCS or permanent
change of assignment moves unless he or she has authorized the hiring of full-time or permanent
part-time DoD employees on to the Committee, including members of the Military Services,
pursuant to existing statutes, Executive orders, and regulations.

    E3.11.5. Financial Transactions and Internal Controls. DoD-Supported Committees are
obligated to develop comprehensive financial management policies and procedures, including
internal controls over financial transactions. When possible, DoD officials may assist with
developing the appropriate policies, procedures, and internal controls; however, the
responsibility rests solely with the Committee.

        E3.11.5.1. To meet these obligations, the Department of Defense recommends that the
Committee, in consultation with its DFO, review account balances on a regular basis to
identify unusual account balances, retain sufficient evidence in transaction files to show that all
transactions have been properly approved for payment, and monitor the prompt processing of
vendor invoices upon receipt so that vendors are accurately paid in a timely manner.

        E3.11.5.2. The Department of Defense suggests that the Committee focus on two areas
of special interest:

           E3.11.5.2.1. Travel Records. The Committee shall ensure that travelers provide
appropriate documentation to support airfare transactions, including a payment receipt, boarding
pass receipts and/or an itinerary from the appropriate DoD Commercial Travel Office that shows
the amount of airfare that was paid and serves as proof that travel occurred. In addition, the
Committee shall retain completed travel vouchers as evidence that the designated travel occurred
and to support amounts claimed for reimbursement.

            E3.11.5.2.1. (Added)(AF) Members and consultants for AF-sponsored FACs
entitled to reimbursement for travel and per diem shall submit substantiating
documentation to the Committee staff pursuant to References (r) and (s).

           E3.11.5.2.2. Contract Files. The Committee shall maintain contract files, including
contract awards and administration, to document the basis for Committee decisions to acquire
goods and services from commercial vendors, to document each step in the acquisition
process, and to document information to supplement an external review of the procurement
process. In addition, the Committee shall ensure that all statements of work contain a
provision on organizational conflicts of interest and that contract files contain signed
assurances that contractors do not have an organizational conflict of interest.
40                                         DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010

E3.12. Committee and Subcommittee Meetings

    E3.12.1. Authority to Call Committee or Subcommittee Meetings. Only the DFO can call a
Committee or Subcommittee meeting, and the DFO shall attend all Committee and
Subcommittee meetings. Furthermore, no meeting shall be held unless the DFO approves the
agenda in advance and is present for the meeting, there is a majority of Committee members
present for the meeting, and the Committee or Subcommittee fully complies with the open-
meeting requirements of References (d) and (e), and this Instruction.

    E3.12.2. Open-Meeting Requirements. All Committees shall ensure that their open meetings
are held at a reasonable time and in a manner or place reasonably accessible to the public.
Unless the Department of Defense has authorized the Committee to close the meeting under the
provisions of section 552b(c) of Reference (i), interested persons or groups, to the extent possible
shall be permitted to attend the Committee’s meeting.

   E3.12.3. Closed-Meeting Determinations. All requests to close a Committee meeting or
Subcommittee meeting, when appropriate, shall be submitted in writing by the DFO to the
appropriate DoD Sponsor for determination.

  E3.12.3. (Added)(AF) Requests to close or partially close a meeting of an AF-sponsored
FAC to the public shall be coordinated with the AF GFO and SAF/GCA prior to seeking
SAF/AA approval. Requests shall be submitted in the format provided in Reference aa.

       E3.12.3.1. The DFO’s request shall cite the specific provisions of section 552b(c) of
Reference (i) that justifies closure.

        E3.12.3.2. Requests shall be submitted in a timely manner to ensure the Committee
complies with the 15-calendar day requirement for the Federal Register meeting notice.
Failure to administratively handle the necessary paperwork shall not be considered as a reason
for the CMO to grant a waiver to the 15-calendar day publication requirement.

       E3.12.3.2. (Added)(AF) Requests to close or partially close a meeting of an AF-
sponsored FAC to the public shall be coordinated, approved and submitted to the AF
FRLO 30 calendar days in advance of the meeting date to ensure timely processing and
publication in the Federal Register, pursuant to Air Force Instruction 33-320, Federal
Register, Reference (ab).

        E3.12.3.3. (Added)(AF) Requests that are not submitted in time to meet the 15
calendar day publication requirement pursuant to Reference (d) shall include a request to
waive the 15 calendar day requirement. The request shall include an explanation of the
circumstances resulting in the need to request a waiver. The AF GFO will coordinate and
staff request for waivers to the CMO for resolution.

    E3.12.4. Committee Meetings. All Committee meetings, to the extent possible, shall be
open to the public; however, no Committee, unless otherwise directed by the authorizing
authority, shall allow the public or interested parties to participate in Committee
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                                   41

deliberations.
Any facility used to hold a Committee meeting shall be readily accessible to persons with
disabilities, pursuant to section 504 of Reference (t), and sufficient to accommodate
Committee members and staff and a reasonable number of interested members of the public.

    E3.12.5. Subcommittee Meetings. Even though most Subcommittee meetings are exempt
from the open-meeting provisions of References (d) and (e), the Chairperson may direct that his
or her Subcommittees comply with the open-meeting requirements of References (d) and (e).

       E3.12.5.1. Notwithstanding, the full provisions of References (d) and (e), including the
open-meeting requirements, apply to any Subcommittee that meets any of the following
conditions:

          E3.12.5.1.1. The Subcommittee provides advice or recommendations to a Federal
employee who is not a member of the Subcommittee or the parent Committee.

           E3.12.5.1.2. The parent Committee fails to deliberate on the Subcommittee’s advice
or recommendations prior to submitting it to the final Federal government decision maker, or to a
Federal officer or employee, who is not a member of the parent Committee.

         E3.12.5.1.3. It is known, prior to the Subcommittee’s submission of advice and
recommendations to the parent Committee that the parent Committee will not deliberate on the
Subcommittee’s advice and recommendations.

       E3.12.5.2. When any of the conditions described in paragraph E3.12.5.1 occur, the
Department of Defense, at a minimum, shall file a separate Charter for the Subcommittee,
appoint a DFO for the Subcommittee, direct the Subcommittee to comply with the provisions of
References (d) and (e), and count the Subcommittee against DoD’s Discretionary Federal
Advisory Committee ceiling.

   E3.12.6. Combined Committee Meetings. Even though References (d) and (e) do not
prohibit two separate Committees from having a combined Committee meeting, DFOs shall
exercise caution when considering the feasibility of combining meetings.

        E3.12.6.1. In such cases, specific ground rules must be developed and published in the
Federal Register meeting notice indicating who will lead the meeting, how joint meeting minutes
will be recorded and that they will be signed by both Committee Chairpersons, and how
Committee voting will be handled.

       E3.12.6.2. Any DFOs that are considering holding combined Committee meetings are
strongly encouraged to consult with their Sponsor’s GC, GFO, and the CMO before proceeding.

    E3.12.7. Virtual Committee or Subcommittee Meetings. Committees, with teleconferencing
technology, may conduct virtual Committee or Subcommittee meetings. However, they shall
comply with all the Committee or Subcommittee meeting requirements, including open or closed
meeting requirements, pursuant to References (d) and (e) and this Instruction. In addition, the
42                                        DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010

DFO shall inform the public through the Federal Register notice of the procedures they need to
follow if they desire to observe the meeting.

    E3.12.8. Committee Member Attendance. When a Committee member cannot attend a
scheduled Committee or Subcommittee meeting, the Committee Chairperson or DFO may
authorize the Committee member to send a non-Committee member substitute to attend the
meeting. However, this person, who travels on ITO orders, shall be prohibited from engaging in
any deliberations or casting a vote for the person they represent. In addition, this person shall
not be considered to determine whether a majority of Committee members are present.

   E3.12.9. Federal Register Notice Requirement. The DFO, pursuant to References (d), (e),
and (i), shall file all Federal Register meeting notices with the DoD Component FRLO early
enough to ensure that the meeting notice appears in the Federal Register for at least 15 calendar
days prior to the actual date of the meeting.

        E3.12.9.1. Multiple meeting notices may be announced in a single Federal Register
notice; however, if the Committee subsequently has to make changes to the announced schedule,
then the DFO shall announce the changes and ensure that the notice complies with the 15-day
rule.

       E3.12.9.2. The DFO shall ensure that every Federal Register meeting notice includes
information on the public’s right to submit written statements to the Committee at any time or in
response to the stated agenda of a planned meeting, and how they should go about submitting
statements to the Committee.

        E3.12.9.3. The DoD Component FRLO shall not process any DoD-Supported
Committee’s Federal Register notice that does not comply with the 15-calendar day requirement,
without prior written approval from the CMO. The CMO shall provide the DFO with specific
language for inclusion in the Federal Register notice that explains the basis for the CMO’s
waiver. Copies of the CMO’s waiver shall be made available to the public upon request, and
retained in the Committee’s official records.

       E3.12.9.3. (Added)(AF) The DFO for an AF-sponsored FAC shall ensure requests to
publish a notice in the Federal Register are submitted to the AF FRLO, pursuant to
Reference (ab). An information copy of the request shall be provided to the AF GFO
(SAF/AAX) and the Secretary of the Air Force, Office of Public Affairs for Current
Operations (SAF/PAO).

   E3.12.10. Committee and Subcommittee Meeting Minutes. Meeting minutes or transcripts,
pursuant to Reference (d), shall be kept and the appropriate Chairperson shall certify the
accuracy of the minutes within 90 calendar days of the meeting. With regard to Administrative
and Preparatory Work meetings, the DFO shall ensure that a summary of the meeting is
maintained, to include a listing of who attended the meeting, and this information shall be
maintained in the Committee’s official records.

       E3.12.10.1. The DFO, as appropriate, shall ensure that the minutes are certified by the
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                                      43

Chairperson no later than 90 calendar days after every Committee or Subcommittee meeting, and
that PDF copies of all unclassified Committee meeting minutes or the Closed-Meeting
Summaries are uploaded onto the GSA’s FACA Database.

        E3.12.10.2. Committee and Subcommittee meeting minutes shall contain, at a minimum,
the following:

           E3.12.10.2.1. The time, date, and location of each meeting; an accurate description of
each matter that was discussed; and the Committee’s resolution, if any.

           E3.12.10.2.2. A list of the persons who were present at the meeting, to include
Committee members and staff, Agency employees, and any members of the public who
presented oral or written statements.

          E3.12.10.2.3. Copies of each report or other document received, issued, or approved
by the Committee members at the meeting.

            E3.12.10.2.4. (Added)(AF) The DFO shall track each Committee
recommendation which has the potential to impact AF policy or procedures, staff the
recommendations as appropriate, update the Committee as appropriate and ensure the
Committee is provided a timely response on the final AF position for each
recommendation. The DFO shall maintain a current listing of all Committee
recommendations being tracked and AF disposition on each recommendation which is
closed, to include any response provided to the Committee. The DFO will provide the AF
GFO with the current listing no later than the 15th calendar day of the first month of each
quarter during the fiscal year.

E3.13. Committee Printing Requirements and Committee Reports

    E3.13.1. Committee Printing Requirements. All DoD-Supported Committees, unless
otherwise directed by DoD Instruction 5330.03 (Reference (v)), shall use DAPS for its
printing requirements, including Committee reports and products that are unique to a
Committee’s identity (e.g., logos, letterhead, custom note pads).

        E3.13.1.1. Committee Logos and Seals. Since DoD-Supported Committees provide
independent advice and recommendations, and are not considered part of any DoD
organizational structure, the Department of Defense discourages the use of any DoD-related
seals or logos. Committees may use the Great Seal of the United States, but no Committee,
unless authorized by statute or Presidential directive, shall use the Seals of the President, Vice
President, U.S. Congress, U.S. House of Representatives, or U.S. Senate in products developed
or used by the Committee.

        E3.13.1.2. Publishing Files. All Committees shall ensure that the Federal government
retains any electronic files used by DAPS or a commercial company to publish the Committee’s
reports. When the Committee terminates its operations these files shall be retained by the CMO
for subsequent printing requirements, if necessary.
44                                       DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010

   E3.13.2. Committee Reports. Normally, each Committee publishes a printed report that
provides the Federal government with the Committee’s advice and recommendations.

   E3.13.2. (Added)(AF) Any recommendation or advice contained in a report of an AF-
sponsored FAC shall also be assigned a unique tracking number, tracked by the DFO for
AF disposition and feedback per guidance in E3.12.10.2.4.

        E3.13.2.1. Committee Report Distribution. While the Committee’s enabling authority
normally specifies who receives the Committee’s report, section 102.3-175(d) of Reference
(d) requires that eight copies of all Committee reports, including background papers prepared
by consultants, be sent to the Library of Congress. The DFO shall comply with this
requirement and provide the CMO a copy of the Committee’s transmittal letter within 30 days
of a Committee’s report being published,

           E3.13.2.1.1. Pursuant to section 1042 of Pub. L. No. 107-107 (2001) (Reference
(w)), Committees that are required to submit reports to any of the DoD congressional oversight
committees shall also send a PDF copy of the report to all other DoD congressional oversight
committees. If the report is classified, the Committee shall make special delivery arrangements
with the DoD congressional oversight committees.

            E3.13.2.1.2. All Committees shall provide one copy of every unclassified Committee
report to the Pentagon Library, the libraries that service the Service Academies and the Military
Services’ commissioned and noncommissioned officer professional military education programs.

       E13.2.2. Draft Versions of Reports. For each report published, Committees shall
maintain and archive with their official records all draft copies and comments by the Committee
members on each version. This enables the public to follow the logic the Committee used in
reaching its conclusions, recommendations, and advice.

        E3.13.2.3. Statutory Reports. Pursuant to References (d) and (e), each Executive Branch
Agency is required to submit annual reports in reference to the Committees that they support.
The CMO is required to submit the ACR and the Closed or Partially-Closed Meeting Report
each fiscal year. Each DFO shall verify their ACR and submit an Annual Report of Closed or
Partially-Closed Committee or Subcommittee meetings no later than October 15 of each year.

       E3.13.2.3. (Added)(AF) The AF GFO shall review the GSA FACA database to verify
all required information is entered for each AF-sponsored FAC and is complete. The AF
GFO will work with each DFO to resolve any missing information or discrepancies. All
reports of closed or partially-closed Meetings shall be submitted to the AF GFO. The AF
GFO will consolidate reports for all AF-sponsored FACs and submit to the CMO.

E3.14. Committee Management Records

   E3.14.1. Department of Defense Federal Advisory Committee Management Program
Records. All records pertaining to the Department of Defense Federal Advisory Committee
Management Program shall be maintained and preserved pursuant to Reference (u).
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                                     45

        E3.14.1.1. DoD offices, as determined by the CMO, shall retain appropriate records that
pertain to the Department of Defense Federal Advisory Committee Management Program. For
example, the DoD GC for OSD Sponsored Federal Advisory Committees, instead of the CMO’s
office, shall retain copies of Committee member and staff confidential financial records pursuant
to established statutes, Executive orders, and regulations.

       E3.14.1.1. (Added)(AF) Except as provided in paragraph E3.5.5.4, the AF GFO will
maintain records associated with and documenting AF administration and management of
AF-sponsored FACs. These records shall include SAF/AA actions relating to establishment
or renewal of an AF-sponsored FAC; recommendations for member and consultant
approval; decisions pertaining to requests to close or partially close a meeting of an AF-
sponsored FAC; DFO appointments; and others as directed by the CMO or necessary to
document AF Committee administration and oversight.

        E3.14.1.2. All Committee records, pursuant to section 3301 of 44 U.S.C. (Reference (x)),
shall be considered property of the Federal government and retained pursuant to existing statutes,
Executive orders, and regulations. Pursuant to section 552 of Reference (i), any records, reports,
transcripts, minutes, appendices, working papers, drafts, studies, agendas, or other documents
that were made available to or prepared for or by a Committee shall be available for public
inspection and copying at a single location until the Committee ceases to exist. Normally, these
documents will be located at the Committee’s office; however, if the documents are located
elsewhere, then the DFO shall ensure that the location of the documents is announced in the
Federal Register.

   E3.14.2. Transferring and Archiving of Committee Records. All DoD-Sponsored
Committees, unless otherwise directed by statute, Executive order, or regulation shall
immediately archive and transfer their official records to NARA upon termination.

        E3.14.2.1. The maintenance and preparation of Committee records for transfer to NARA
shall be done pursuant to Reference (u) and 36 Code of Federal Regulations 1128, subpart L
(Reference (y)).

        E3.14.2.2. Long-term Committees may transfer historical records to NARA at any time
prior to their actual termination (e.g., in 2006, the U.S. Air Force Scientific Advisory Board
elected to transfer all of its previous records to NARA, even though the Committee’s Charter
was renewed by the Secretary of Defense).

        E3.14.2.3. When the Committee’s official records are transmitted to NARA the
Committee shall include in the archived records two printed copies of the Committee’s final
report.

    E3.14.3. Freedom of Information Requests. The public is not required to submit Freedom of
Information Act (FOIA) requests when seeking committee records that are not exempt from
release under the FOIA statute. However, if there is a reasonable expectation that the records fall
within a FOIA exemption, the public may be required to submit a FOIA request.
46                                          DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010

E3.15. FACA Database System

   E3.15.1. FACA Database. The CMS maintains a FACA Database, which the CMO, the
GFOs, and the DFOs shall update on a regular basis. This database is used by Congress, the
Executive Office of the President, the public, and the media to stay abreast of developments
within each Committee and the Executive Branch’s Federal Advisory Committee Management
Program.

      E3.15.1.1. The CMO shall establish the Committee’s database file in the FACA
Database when the Committee’s Charter is initially filed.

        E3.15.1.2. Since the FACA Database is regularly accessed by the Executive Branch, the
Congress, the Government Accountability Office, and the public, it is imperative that the DFO
routinely update the Committee’s Database File. At a minimum, the DFO shall review and
update, as appropriate, their Committee’s FACA Database File every 60 days. Each GFO may
require the DFOs under their cognizance to advise them when these reviews and updates have
been completed.

        E3.15.1.2. (Added)(AF) The DFO or Committee Exec for an AF-sponsored FAC
shall ensure the Committee’s FACA Database File is reviewed for accuracy at least
monthly during the fiscal year. Notification that the review is accomplished shall be
provided to the AF GFO no later than the 15th calendar day of each month.

   E3.15.2. Areas Requiring Special Attention. When updating the FACA Database, each GFO
and DFO shall pay special attention to the following areas:

        E3.15.2.1. Reports. Every unclassified report issued by a Committee during a fiscal year
shall be listed and loaded onto the GSA’s FACA Database. If the Committee’s report is
classified, the DFO shall list the report’s unclassified title, if it exists, and annotate the remarks
section of the Agency Recommendation Profile to indicate that the report is classified.

         E3.15.2.2. Meetings. Every Committee meeting, including Administrative and
Preparatory Work, Closed or Partially Closed meetings, shall be listed and all associated
documents shall be loaded onto the GSA’s FACA Database. The information listed on this
profile shall be the same information (i.e., open, closed or partially closed; dates, location;
and purpose) that the DFO normally submits on the Federal Register notice, if required.

       E3.15.2.3. Meeting Documentation. Regardless of whether the Committee meeting is
open or closed to the public, the DFO must ensure that all the proper documentation is posted to
the GSA’s FACA Database.

             E3.15.2.3.1. Open Meeting Documentation. For each open Committee meeting, the
DFO shall post all unclassified documents associated with the meeting. Specifically, the DFO
shall post, in PDF format: the published Federal Register notice; the meeting’s approved
agenda; the approved minutes; and all unclassified documents presented to Committee members
prior to and during the meeting by Committee staff, Agency representatives, or the public.
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                                   47

             E3.15.2.3.2. Closed or Partially-Closed Meeting Documentation. For approved closed
or partially-closed meetings, the DFO shall post in PDF format the meeting’s unclassified
approved agenda and a summary of the meeting. This summary, which will be used for the
Annual Report of Closed or Partially-Closed Committee or Subcommittee meetings, shall
contain the date and place of the meeting; what portion of the meeting (by time and agenda item)
was closed to the public, and the provisions of Reference (i) cited to authorize the closure; the
title or topic of all reports, records, or other information (written or oral) presented to the
Committee or Subcommittee during the meeting, or provided to the Committee members in
advance of the meeting; and a description of any actions taken at the closed session, including
any reports or recommendations made to a DoD official and the disposition of any such reports
or recommendations.

        E3.15.2.4. Costs. All Federal government expenditures (direct and indirect) associated
with the Committee shall be captured. When reporting Payments to Non-Federal members, the
DFO shall capture all government funds, except for travel and per diem reimbursements, paid to
the members for official Committee business. As for Payments for Federal members, the DFO
shall capture the total salaries, to include benefits, received by Committee members who are
Federal officers or employees (including Members of Congress) based upon the number of days
of official Committee business. The Payments to Consultants is intended to capture costs paid to
any consultant hired by the Committee. Reimbursement for Travel Payments, regardless of the
category, is for all reimbursements provided by the Federal government for official Committee
business. The Other Payments captures all other Committee expenditures, including printing,
contracts, mailing costs (FedEx®, U.S. Postal Service, etc.), Committee meetings, etc, which are
not captured elsewhere.

       E3.15.2.5. Members. The DFO shall provide all the CMS information requested. The
member’s designation, unless otherwise directed by the CMO, will either be Regular
Government Employee (Federal officer or employee, member of the Military Services, or
Member of Congress) or SGE. The Appointment Type will be either Agency, Congressional,
or Federal Employee Member. For the member’s appointment term, the DFO, unless the
Charter says otherwise, will enter 1-year term appointments. The Pay Plan and Pay Source,
unless otherwise directed by the CMO, will be Travel and Per Diem Only and Executive
Branch, respectively. When entering the member’s e-mail address, the DFO may use the
Committee’s e-mail address so long as the CMS, who is the only person who will use the e-mail
address, is able to contact the Committee member.

        E3.15.2.6. Subcommittees. When the Committee establishes Subcommittees, the CMO
shall be advised so that the Subcommittee’s name can be entered into the FACA Database. Once
entered, the DFO is then responsible for maintaining the required data. Within the
Subcommittee Profile, the Cost Page is normally intended for chartered Subcommittees;
however, if the DFO is able to separate out the Subcommittee costs from those of the parent
Committee then the DFO may report the Subcommittee’s cost information. When doing so the
DFO must ensure that the Subcommittee’s costs are reflected in the overall Committee’s costs.

E3.16. Program Management
48                                        DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010

    E3.16.1. Department of Defense Federal Advisory Committee Management Program. To
comply with the statutory and regulatory requirements of References (d) and (e), the CMO, on
behalf of the DA&M, shall develop a management program that enables the CMO to manage and
assess the performance of the DoD’s overall program.

   E3.16.2. GFOs. Each DoD Sponsor is encouraged to appoint, in writing, a GFO to assist the
Sponsor in the administrative oversight and management of their aspects of the Department of
Defense Federal Advisory Committee Management Program.

        E3.16.2.1. The GFO duties shall be administrative in nature. He or she shall not exercise
policy management authority over the Department of Defense Federal Advisory Committee
Management Program, but will provide input, when requested or warranted. In addition, the
GFO serves as the liaison between the CMO and all DFOs, alternate DFOs, and Committee
points of contacts under the purview of the GFO’s sponsor. In this capacity, the GFO provides
policy guidance, implements DoD policy, answers inquires, ensures FACA compliance, reviews
nomination packages, etc. To the extent possible, communications between the DFO and the
CMO shall be through the appropriate GFO.

        E3.16.2.2. When appointed, the GFO shall attend the GSA’s Federal Advisory
Committee Act Course, and retake the course every 36 months as long as the person remains a
GFO. In addition, the GFO shall be given access to the GSA’s FACA Database for those
Committees that fall under the GFO’s Sponsor. For example, the GFO for the Department of the
Navy shall have GFO privileges in GSA’s FACA Database for all Committees sponsored by the
Secretary of the Navy, and the GFO shall assist the DFOs and CMO in maintaining the accuracy
of the Database for these Committees.

       E3.16.2.3. Acting on behalf of the DoD Sponsor, the GFO may hold their Sponsor’s
DFOs to additional administrative requirements as long as these additional requirements do not
negate CMO or CMS requirements.

   E3.16.3. Transparency. Program transparency reduces the likelihood of perceived inequities
and enables the public to better understand how the Federal Advisory Committee Management
Program is managed, and how Committees exercise internal controls over project management,
contracting procedures and practices, and financial transactions.

        E3.16.3.1. To promote greater transparency, the Department of Defense and the DoD-
Supported Committees shall conduct its FACA-related business in the open to the extent possible
and in accordance with existing regulations regarding National Security Information.

        E3.16.3.2. The Department of Defense shall use various public-access Web sites to make
information available to the public. This includes, but is not limited to information such as the
status of Committee member appointment; how Committees arrive at their decisions; copies of
Committee Charters; and access to unclassified work products (reports, studies, or
recommendations).

     E3.16.4. CMO Web site. The CMO shall maintain a Web site that provides information on
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                                  49

DoD-Supported Committees. At a minimum, the Web site shall include the CMO’s mailing
address, fax number, and phone number; a list of the various DoD-Sponsored Committees,
including the Committees that Congress exempted from Reference (e); a hyperlink to the
Committee’s Web site, if appropriate; a copy of the Committee’s current Charter; a media point
of contact for the CMO; and when possible copies of published unclassified Committee reports.

    E3.16.5. Committee Web sites. In keeping with established security requirements,
Committees are encouraged to develop and maintain Web sites. Web sites funded by DoD
appropriated funds, shall comply with the standards and policies promulgated by the Chief
Information Officer for the Department of Defense, including the appropriate security
regulations and policies.

       E3.16.5.1. As permitted by law, Committees shall practice openness and seek feedback
from the public and other interested parties by encouraging the exchange of ideas and
recommendations through their Web sites.

        E3.16.5.2. A Web site that is maintained by a Committee shall provide, at a minimum the
Committee’s name and mailing address; information on the Committee’s DoD Sponsor; the
DFO’s phone and mailing address; background on the authority that established the Committee;
the Committee’s Charter; details on the Committee’s public inquiry process; any by-laws or rules
of operations approved by Committee members; explanation of how the Committee arrives at its
decisions; a history and timeline of Committee activities; a media point of contact for the
Committee; and records, reports, transcripts, minutes, appendices, working papers, drafts,
studies, agendas, and any other documents that pertain to the Committee.

       E3.16.5.2.a. (Added)(AF) All by-laws for AF-sponsored FACs will be coordinated
with SAF/AAX as the AF Group Federal Officer (AF GFO) and the Deputy General
Counsel, Fiscal, Ethics and Administrative Law, (SAF/GCA) prior to formal adoption by
the respective Committee to eliminate potential conflicts with References (d) and (e), this
Supplement and other DoD or AF policy and guidance.

       E3.16.5.2.b. (Added)(AF) The DFO shall attempt to reduce duplication and ensure
the public is provided access to the authoritative data source by ensuring that the
committee web site contains a link to the GSA FACA Database.

    E3.16.6. Committee Management Review Program. The DA&M and the CMO shall
develop a DoD Committee Management Review Program no later than 90 days after this
Instruction becomes effective. When conducting his or her reviews, the CMO may consult
with the GFO, DFO, DoD Washington Headquarters Services, or DoD GC subject-matter
experts. Findings and recommendations resulting from the CMO’s review shall be reported to
the appropriate officials, and any DoD-wide changes shall be submitted to the DA&M or CMO
within 60 days. At a minimum, the CMO shall review the following on an annual basis:

   E3.16.6. (Added)(AF) The AF GFO will track performance measures, such as training;
timeliness of Federal Register notices; membership and consultant nominations; accuracy
50                                         DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010


and timeliness of GSA FACA Database updates; and other information as necessary to
assess the effectiveness of AF administration of AF-sponsored FACs.

       E3.16.6.1. All Committee records maintained in the CMO and the GFO offices.

       E3.16.6.2. All Financial Disclosure Reports (DD Form 2859) and Appointment
Affidavits on current Committee members.

       E3.16.6.3. At least 25 percent of the records maintained by Committees and their DFOs,
including financial management records. The CMO shall ensure that he or she takes a
representative sampling of Committees from each DoD Sponsor.

E3.17. Non-Discretionary Committees Exempted from the FACA Statute

    E3.17.1. FACA Exemption. Only Congress may exempt a Federal Advisory Committee
from the provisions of References (d) and (e). when this occurs, the CMO, in coordination with
the DoD GC, shall determine which provisions of this Instruction a Non-Discretionary
Committee shall comply with.

      E3.17.1.1. Any DoD Sponsor for a Committee that is exempt from References (d) and
(e) shall designate a full-time or permanent part-time Federal employee to act as a DoD
Liaison Officer for that Committee. This individual will work with the CMO and the GFO, if
appropriate, to ensure that the Committee complies with the appropriate DoD regulations and
policies.

     E3.17.1.2. In addition, the DoD Liaison Officer shall be responsible for safeguarding all
DoD National Security Information that is provided to the Committee.

    E3.17.2. DoD Regulatory Compliance. Generally, the Committee shall comply with the
following provisions:

        E3.17.2.1. DoD personnel policies and procedures, including those regarding the detail
of DoD personnel when the Department of Defense provides funding for Committee members
and staff, or the Committee utilizes the professional services of a DoD personnel office to staff
its Committee.

       E3.17.2.2. DoD policies and procedures pertaining to access, use, and storage of DoD
National Security Information. When DoD National Security Information is required by a
Committee exempted by the FACA statute and other Federal regulations, the Committee’s DoD
Sponsor shall establish procedures for the Committee to follow when handling DoD National
Security Information, including security reviews of any materials disseminated by the
Committee.

       E3.17.2.3. DoD travel rules and regulations when the Department of Defense provides
funding for the Committee’s official travel.
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                                    51

     E3.17.2.4. DoD contracting and financial management policies and procedures when the
Committee uses DoD appropriated funds.

       E3.17.2.5. DoD information technology policies and procedures when the Committee
uses any DoD backbone or e-mail servers.

     E3.17.2.6. DoD policies and procedures regarding the transfer and archiving of the
Committee’s official records when the Committee completes its work.

   E3.17.3. Report Requirements. Although Committees exempt from the provisions of
References (d) and (e) are also exempt from the report filing provisions of References (d) and (e)
and this Instruction, the Department of Defense encourages the Committee to consider filing
copies of its unclassified Committee reports in accordance with the additional distribution
requirements of this Instruction.


Appendices - 4
 E3.A1. Elements of Justification for the Establishment of Discretionary Advisory Committees
 E3.A2. Elements Required for DoD-Supported Federal Advisory Committee Charters
 E3.A3. Required Appointment Paperwork for Committee members (With and Without
          Compensation
 E3.A4. (Added)(AF) FACA Action Memo Template
52                                        DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010

                                     E3.A1. APPENDIX 1

     ELEMENTS OF JUSTIFICATION FOR THE ESTABLISHMENTOF DISCRETIONARY
                           ADVISORY COMMITTEES

E3.A1.1. Name of Proposed Advisory Committee.

E3.A1.2. Number of Committee Members. Indicate the required number of members and
whether or not additional compensation, other than travel and per diem, is necessary. With
regard to compensation, Committee members normally do not receive compensation for their
services. In addition, indicate how the Department of Defense will ensure that Committee
membership is balanced.

E3.A1.3. Estimated Size and Source of Staff. Indicate the size of the proposed Advisory
Committee’s support staff and the source of staff members (e.g., detailed DoD employees, new
hires).

E3.A1.4. Estimated Number and Frequency of Meetings. Indicate the estimated number of
meetings anticipated within a fiscal year and, if known, how frequently the meetings will be held
(e.g., “approximately every 4 months”).

E3.A1.5. Estimated Annual Costs, Funding Sources, and Number of Man-Years Required to
Support Proposed Advisory Committee. Costs shall include DoD’s direct and indirect costs.
Funding sources shall indicate if funding is available from the Component’s appropriated
funds or if appropriation will come from other DoD funds.

E3.A1.6. Rationale for Committee Formation. Explain why it is essential that the Department of
Defense form this Committee to serve in the interests of the Department of Defense and the
public. (Keep in mind that the Office of Management and Budget through the CMS controls the
number of Discretionary Committees that the Department of Defense can approve.)

E3.A1.7. Explain Why the Proposed Advisory Committee Cannot be Aligned Under an Existing
DoD-Supported Federal Advisory Committee. [Self Explanatory]

E3.A1.8. Explain How the Proposed Advisory Committee will Accomplish its Purpose and Why
the Advice is not Available from Other Sources. [Self Explanatory]
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                                    53

                                      E3.A2. APPENDIX 2

                     ELEMENTS REQUIRED FOR DOD-SUPPORTED
                     FEDERAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE CHARTERS


E3.A2.1. Official Designation. Provide the official name of the Advisory Committee.

E3.A2.2. Objectives and Scope of Activities. Describe the objectives and scope of the
Committee’s mission or charge, and indicate what authority established the committee. For
Discretionary Committees, it is not necessary to provide a detailed description of the specific
duties or tasks; however, for Non-Discretionary Committees, the specific duties or tasks that are
listed in the statute shall be provided.

E3.A2.3. Membership. Indicate the total number of members, provide details on the selection
process for Committee members and the Committee Chairperson, provide a description of the
required expertise and/or represented groups necessary to achieve balanced membership, and list
the Committee members’ appointment categories (e.g., SGE) and whether or not they are
compensated for their duties.

E3.A2.4. Meetings. Indicate that the DFO calls the Committee meetings and what the estimated
number of meetings per year. In addition, this section will indicate: (a) how the DFO is
appointed; (b) that the DFO or Alternate DFO must attend all Committee and Subcommittee
meetings; (c) whether the Committee is authorized to establish Subcommittees; and (d) that
Subcommittees, if authorized, must comply with FACA statutes.

E3.A2.5. Duration of the Committee. Indicate that the Committee is subject to renewal every 2
years.

E3.A2.6. Agency Support. Indicate that the Department of Defense through the DoD Sponsor
will support the Committee, as required, and ensure compliance with the FACA statute and
regulations.

E3.A2.7. Termination Date. Indicate that the Committee will terminate upon completion of its
mission or 2 years from the date its charter is filed, unless approved for extension.

E3.A2.8. Operating Costs. Indicate the estimated annual operating and DoD personnel costs to
support the Committee. The cost expenditure categories that are used in the ACR shall be used
to estimate these costs.

E3.A2.9. Charter Filing Date. Date shall be entered by the CMO and it will be the date the
Charter is officially filed.
54                                       DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010

                                    E3.A3. APPENDIX 3

 REQUIRED APPOINTMENT PAPERWORK FOR COMMITTEE MEMBERS (WITH AND
                     WITHOUT COMPENSATION)


E3.A3.1. INS Form 9, “Employment Eligibility Verification” (Copies of supporting
                                                       1
documentation used for verification shall be provided.)

E3.A3.2. Optional Form 306, “Declaration for Federal Employment.”

E3.A3.3. Current Resume or Optional Form 612, “Optional Application for Federal
Employment.” If a resume is used, then it shall indicate the Committee member’s social security
number, date of birth, and current address.

E3.A3.4. Standard Form 61, “Appointment Affidavits.”

E3.A3.5. Standard Form 144, “Statement of Prior Federal Service” (Former military personnel
shall provide a copy of DD Form 214 and retired Federal employees shall provide a copy of the
most recent annuity statement.)

E3.A3.6. OGE Form 450, “Confidential Financial Disclosure Report” or Standard Form 278,
“Executive Branch Personnel Public Financial Disclosure Report.” The appropriate GC shall
determine which form is required.

E3.A3.7. DoD GC’s “An Ethics Guide for Consultants and Advisory Committee members at the
Department of Defense,” which provides Committee members with ethics information.

E3.A3.8. DD Form 2292, “Consultant or Expert, Request for Appointment, or Renewal of
Appointment.”

E3.A3.8. (Added)(AF) The DFO to an AF-sponsored FAC will complete Part I through
Block 10 and sign Block 11.i. documenting he/she is satisfied the nominee is acceptable for
an excepted appointment to the respective committee and serving as a SGE.

E3.A3.9. (Added)(AF) SF 81, Ethnicity and Race Identification.

E3.A3.10. (Added)(AF) SF 256, Self-Identification of Handicap.


     REQUIRED APPOINTMENT PAPERWORK FOR COMMITTEE MEMBERS (WITH
                            COMPENSATION)

E3.A3.10. Required appointment paperwork includes the requirements of Paragraphs E3.A3.1
through E3.A3.10, in addition to the following:
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                            55

   E3.A3.10.1. Standard Form 1199A, “Direct Deposit Form.”

   E3.A3.10.2. Employee Withholding Certificate – Internal Revenue Service Form W-4 and
appropriate State Certificates.
                                 E3.A4. APPENDIX 4

                         FACA ACTION MEMO TEMPLATE
                                                                          (date stamp)

FOR: SECRETARY OF DEFENSE                                       DepSec Action _____

FROM: DoD Component Principal Official (Note: The originator signs on this line.
        If someone signs “for” the originating official, print the signer’s name
        and title below the signature.)

SUBJECT: Defense Advisory Board Membership Approval

• DoD Instruction 5105.04, DoD Federal Advisory Committee Management Program
  and DepSecDef memorandum, subject: DoD Federal Advisory Committee
  Management Program, dated Aug. 22, 2006 (TAB B), requires the SecDef to appoint,
  renew, or terminate the appointment of Federal Advisory Committee members.

• Accordingly, request you approve the appointment, renewal, and/or departure of the
  members of the XXXX Advisory Board at Tab A. A resume or curriculum vitae is
  attached for new or returning board members.

• These have been reviewed by the White House Liaison Office.

RECOMMENDATION: Secretary of Defense indicate approval by initialing at TAB A.

Approve________ Disapprove________ Other ________

COORDINATION: TAB C

Attachments:
As stated



Prepared By: Jane Smith, 703-697-8261
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                      57




Defense Blank Advisory Board

                        Approve    Disapprove   Other
New Appointment
Stan Thompson           _______    _______      _______
Jan Gordon              _______    _______      _______


Retain
John Smith              _______    _______      _______
James Teller            _______    _______      _______


Departure
Gina Rogers             _______    _______      _______
Vinnie Williams         _______    _______      _______
58                            DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010


                              Coordination

DoD General Counsel   ______________________      Concur/Nonconcur

White House Liaison   ______________________      Concur/Nonconcur
DODI 5105.04_AFI90-1401 22 JULY 2010                                                  59




                                          Enclosure 4

Compensation Guidelines for Air Force-Sponsored Federal Advisory Committee Members



The following guidelines for compensation can achieve the SAF/AA goals of significantly
reducing both the number of Federal Advisory Committee members being compensated and the
total compensation paid, while avoiding significant reductions in the caliber of members that the
Air Force Federal Advisory Committees can attract and retain to provide the services they
perform. To receive compensation, each of the criteria below must be met:
1.      The member or consultant must explicitly declare that he or she wishes to be considered
     for compensation by the Committee.

2.      Any member or consultant is ineligible to receive compensation if he or she receives
     compensation from any other source for the time spent serving on the Federal Advisory
     Committee. Thus for an individual to be potentially eligible for compensation from the
     Committee they must normally be retired, or if employed they must provide supervisory-
     level signed documentation explicitly attesting that their employer “is explicitly reducing
     normal compensation paid to [the individual] as a direct result of and in direct proportion
     to the time that they spend working for the Committee.”

3.      Normally, only members occupying leadership positions – specifically the Chair, Vice
     Chair, and Study Chairs – will be eligible for compensation, but only if they are not
     receiving compensation from another source as defined above. Study Vice Chairs, other
     members, and consultants will normally not be eligible to receive compensation.

4.      Eligibility for compensation may, in a very small number of exceptional cases, be
     extended to members or consultants not occupying leadership positions if the Chair
     designates them to be so essential and irreplaceable that the Committee would be
     unacceptably weakened by their inability to serve without compensation, subject to SAF/AA
     approval. However such compensation may only be extended to members or consultants
     not receiving compensation from another source as defined above.
