BY ORDER OF THE                                                         DODI5330.03_AFI33-395
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                   11 JULY 2012
                                                               Incorporating Change 1, 9 July 2014
                                                                 Communications and Information

                                DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY (DLA) DOCUMENT SERVICES


                COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/A6PP                                          Certified by: SAF/A6P (Mr. Bobby Smart)

Supersedes: DODI5330.03_AFI33-395, 28 February 2007                                     Pages: 11


This supplement implements and extends the instructions of Department of Defense (DoD)
Instruction 5330.03, Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Document Services. The DoD Instruction
(DoDI) is printed word-for-word in regular font, without editorial review. Air Force
supplementary material is printed bold font and indicated by “(Added)(AF).” This supplement
describes Air Force responsibilities under the instruction and establishes the Air Force
requirement to support the program. This supplement applies to all Air Force activities and the
Air Force component of the National Guard Bureau.


SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This interim change revises DODI 5330.03-AFI33-395 by identifying authorities to waive wing/unit
level requirements with Tier numbers (“T-0, T-1, T-2, or T-3”) following the compliance
statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1 for a description of
the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain
of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for
non-tiered compliance items. A bar ( | ) indicates a revision from the previous edition.
.
DODI5330.03_AFI33-395 11 JULY 2012                                                                  2




                                     Department of
                                       Defense
                                        INSTRUCTION

                                                                                   NUMBER 5330.03
                                                                                       February 8, 2006
                                                                   Certified current as of May 18, 2011

                                                                                         USD (AT&L)

SUBJECT: Document Automation and Production Service (DAPS) Defense Logistics Agency
(DLA) Document Services


References: (a) DoD Directive 5330.3, “Defense Automated Printing Service (DAPS),” June
25, 1997 (hereby cancelled)
(b) Deputy Secretary of Defense Memorandum, “DoD Directives Review – Phase II,” July 13,
2005
(c) DoD Directive 5134.01, “Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and
Logistics,” December 9, 2005
(d) DoD Instruction 3300.2, “Combined Intelligence Publishing Service (CIPS),” February 7, 1994
1. REISSUANCE AND PURPOSE:

This Instruction:

1.1. Reissues Reference (a) as a DoD Instruction, under References (b) and (c).

1.1.1. (Added)(AF) This supplement implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-3,
Information Management, the Document Automation and Production Service, designated as an
High Performing Organization (HPO) in, January 2010, and the DAPS - USAF Memorandum of
Agreement, dated 2 February 2005. This supplement is based on Title 44 United States Code,
Public Printing and Documents; Senate Publication 101-9, Government Printing and Binding
Regulations (GPBR), issued by the Congressional Joint Committee on Printing (JCP), which
governs printing and duplicating. This publication may be supplemented to add additional
guidance. Issue supplements at the highest level possible, preferably at the major command
(MAJCOM), direct reporting unit (DRU), or field operating agency (FOA) level. Send one copy of
the supplement to Secretary of the Air Force Policy and Compliance Division (SAF/A6PP), 1800
Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1800; other commands send one copy of each
supplement to the next higher headquarters. Send recommended changes or comments the Office
of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
3                                                            DODI5330.03_AFI33-395 11 JULY 2012

Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at,
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. See Attachment 1 for references and supporting
information used in this supplement.

1.2. Updates the associated mission, responsibilities, functions, and relationships of the Document
Automation and Production Service (DAPS) DLA Document Services, under the Defense Logistics
Agency (DLA).

2. APPLICABILITY:

This Instruction applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense OSD, the Military Departments, the
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the
Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and
all other organizational entities within the Department of Defense (hereinafter referred to collectively as
the “DoD Components”).

2.1 (Added)(AF) This supplement applies to all Air Force activities, including Air Force Reserve
and Air National Guard (ANG) units”.

3. MISSION:

Under the Director, DLA, the DAPS DLA Document Services shall serve as the DoD single manager for
printing and high speed-high volume duplicating, including both the operation of DoD in-house
facilities and the procurement of these services from outside the Department of Defense, and as the
preferred provider of document conversion and/or automation services (all of which is hereafter referred
to collectively as “document services”) in the Department of Defense, excluding the following:

3.1. Intelligence Agencies of the Department of Defense in accordance with DoD Instruction 3300.2
(Reference (d)) (the Defense Intelligence Agency, the National Security Agency, and the National
Geospatial-Intelligence Agency).

3.2. Tactical activities and National Guard and Reserve organizations, except as mutually agreed by the
cognizant DoD Component and the Director, DAPS DLA Document Services.

3.3. (Added)(AF) In cases where DLA Document Services cannot meet the Air Force printing and
high speed-high volume duplicating services requirements, Air Force activities may submit
requests to procure support and services outside the DLA Document Services to their respective
MAJCOM, DRU, and FOA with justification and mission impact statements. The MAJCOM,
DRU, and FOA will make a recommendation and forward to SAF/A6PP for processing through
DLA Document Services. Only the Government Printing Office (GPO), through DLA Document
Services, can approve a waiver. DLA Document Services will take all reasonable actions necessary
to satisfy both mission-critical and time-sensitive requirements. (T-0)

3.4. (Added)(AF) DLA Document Services is an optional source for automated production services
procured with nonappropriated funds (NAF) and when such services are advantageous to the
funding NAF activity.
DODI5330.03_AFI33-395 11 JULY 2012                                                                     4


4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT:

The DAPS DLA Document Services is established as a component of the DLA. It shall consist of a
Director and subordinate organizational elements established within assigned resources.

5. RESPONSIBILITIES AND FUNCTIONS:

5.1. The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics (USD(AT&L)), shall:

5.1.1. Serve as the principal staff assistant and advisor to the Secretary of Defense on document
services policies and programs and provide policy guidance to the DoD Components regarding the
operation and management of document services in the Department of Defense.

5.1.2. Represent the Department of Defense on printing services policy matters with the Joint
Committee on Printing (JCP), Government Printing Office (GPO), Office of Management and Budget
(OMB), and other Government Agencies.

5.1.2.1. (Added)(AF) SAF/A6PP acts as the Air Force representative for the DoD Automated
Printing Services Oversight Group.

5.1.3. (Added)(AF) SAF/CIO A6 is responsible for Air Force compliance with Title 44 United
States Code Section 3506. SAF/CIO A6 coordinates all Air Force issues and compliances with DLA
Document Services, who serves as the Central Printing and Publications Management
Organization (CPPMO) for the DoD and Military Departments. All Air Force printing related
requirements, JCP reports, equipment and/or waivers will be routed through SAF/CIO A6 for
coordination with DLA Document Services CPPMO.

5.2. The Director, DLA, under the USD(AT&L), as the single manager for DoD document services,
including the operation of DoD in-house facilities and for the departmental printing services
procurement functions, shall:

5.2.1. Exercise authority, direction, and control over the DAPS DLA Document Services.

5.2.2. Appoint a Director to manage and operate the DAPS DLA Document Services.

5.2.3. Provide guidance to the Director regarding the management of the DAPS DLA Document
Services and its relationships with other commands, organizations, and activities within the DLA, as
well as with other DoD Components and Government Agencies.

5.2.4. Finance the operations of the DAPS DLA Document Services under the Printing and Publications
Services Business Area of the Defense Working Capital Fund.

5.3. The Director, DAPS DLA Document Services, under the Director, DLA, shall:

5.3.1. Organize, direct, and manage the DAPS DLA Document Services and all its assigned resources;
produce or procure document services; and administer, supervise, and control all assigned programs,
services, and functions.
5                                                          DODI5330.03_AFI33-395 11 JULY 2012


5.3.2. Provide effective and efficient document services support to the DoD Components.

5.3.3. Conduct a coordinated DoD document services program covering the production, procurement,
and distribution of publications.

5.3.4. Administer Department-wide document services management systems, programs, and activities,
including technical assistance, support services, and information.

5.3.5. Provide advice and assistance on document services matters to the DoD Components and other
organizations, as appropriate.

5.3.6. Act as the DoD representative for technical document services matters under DAPS DLA
Document Services cognizance with the JCP, GPO, OMB, and other Government Agencies.

5.3.7. Ensure that the products and services provided are based on “best value” as determined by
quality, price, and delivery time.

5.3.8. Prescribe the use of DD Form 282, “DoD Printing Requisition/Order,” DD Form
843,”Requisition For Printing and Binding Service,” and DD Form 844, “Requisition For Local
Duplicating Service,” for DoD-wide uniform use in requesting printing, duplicating, and reproduction
work from printing and duplicating facilities.

5.4. The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall provide policy guidance on the functioning of
the Printing and Publications Services Business Area of the Defense Working Capital Fund and related
financial management matters.
5.5. The Heads of the DoD Components shall:

5.5.1. Obtain document services through DAPS DLA Document Services, consistent with the provisions
of this Instruction.

5.5.1.1. (Added)(AF) Air Force activities will utilize DLA Document Services for high volume in-
house printing services. (T-0) DLA Document Services will employ one of the three operational
strategies: full-time staffed, part-time staffed, and self-service capabilities at Air Force
installations to provide support of Air Force printing, duplicating, copying, and as necessary and
approved, commercial procurement of these services. Optional cost-plus solutions are available
through DLA Document Services for self-help or operational Air Force-funded manpower. Air
Force activities will forward requests for cost-plus solutions through their respective MAJCOM,
DRU, FOA, and SAF/A6PP.

5.5.1.2. (Added)(AF) The Air Force requires an organized network of DLA Document Services
liaisons at MAJCOMs, DRUs, FOAs and bases for managing the program and ensuring
compliance at all levels. (T-1)

5.5.1.2.2. (Added)(AF) Each Air Force base must appoint a base DLA Document Services liaison
and notify the MAJCOM DLA Document Services Liaison, providing the same information
indicated in the previous paragraph. (T-3)
5.5.1.3. (Added)(AF) Decals and other labels, prescribed in Air Force technical orders (TO), must
DODI5330.03_AFI33-395 11 JULY 2012                                                                 6

be procured through DLA Document Services. The request must include the TO number,
illustrated parts breakdown figure and index, part number, and quantity required. Decals and
labels required for local or single MAJCOM use are also obtained directly through DLA Document
Services. If aircraft maintenance units have the organic capability to produce decals prescribed in
aircraft technical orders, then the unit is authorized to do so. (T-0)

5.5.1.4. (Added)(AF) Do not submit GPO Form 3868, Notification of Intent to Publish (available
through DLA Document Services), if the publications you intend to print are: national security
classified, For Official Use Only, strictly for administrative or operational purposes and of no
interest to the public or of no educational value.

5.5.1.5. (Added)(AF) Calendars are considered a supply item and Air Force personnel must not
request DLA Document Services to print calendars. Follow local supply purchase procedures to
obtain calendars.

5.5.1.6. (Added)(AF) Air Force personnel may print or procure stationery in accordance with
AFI 65-601, Volume 1. Not Authorized: Using appropriated funds or government equipment to
print the names of officers or other officials on stationary, memorandums, or notes. Use
functional titles of key officials when printing memoranda and note pads.

5.5.1.7. (Added)(AF) Air Force personnel may print or procure business and greeting cards in
accordance with AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures.

5.5.1.8. (Added)(AF) Air Force activities will encourage OPRs to print documents on both sides of
paper (duplex) whenever possible and to procure and configure necessary printing capabilities to
do so. It is more economical and ecologically efficient.

5.5.1.9. (Added)(AF) Air Force activities will use the Government-wide Purchase Card (GPC) as a
payment method to procure printing and high speed-high volume duplicating products and
services from DLA Document Services. (T-0) Any such transactions are considered an intra-
Governmental transaction and as such the micro-purchase threshold does not apply. Activities
will use other funding vehicles such as a (DD Form 448, Military Interdepartmental Purchase
Request (MIPR), or DD Form 282, DoD Printing Requisition/Order) to acquire copier
rentals/purchases and commercial printing attained through the GPO as these types of
transactions do not meet the DLA Document Services GPC criteria.

5.5.1.10. (Added)(AF) Air Force activities will not print/publish advertisements or endorsements of
commercial products/services in government publications.

5.5.1.11. (Added)(AF) Printing in two or more colors generally increases costs. Consequently, it is
the OPR’s responsibility to ensure that all multicolor printing contributes demonstrable value.
Documents will be printed in one color unless additional color is integral to the purpose. Examples
are maps and illustrations of medical specimens or diseases, flags, plants, uniforms, safety, fire
prevention, attention-catching recruiting posters. Do not use color solely for its decorative effect or
for prestige. Use of excessive printing specifications such as coated paper, multicolor inks,
embossing, die-cutting, foil stamping, etc., should also be avoided when less expensive methods and
items will satisfy the requirement.
7                                                           DODI5330.03_AFI33-395 11 JULY 2012

5.5.1.12. (Added)(AF) Air Force activities will coordinate with the local DLA Document Services
office manager to schedule, coordinate, and conduct training on self-service systems and all DLA
Document Services supplied office equipment and processes.

5.5.2. Cooperate with and provide necessary information and assistance to the Director, DLA, and
Director, DAPS DLA Document Services, in establishing requirements, arranging for and executing
inter-Service support agreements, and enabling the DAPS DLA Document Services to provide them
with the required products and services in an effective and efficient manner.

5.5.2.1. (Added)(AF) Air Force activities may use DLA Document Services as the "preferred
provider" or alternative sources to procure copier equipment or multifunctional devices of any
type or capability to be used within the normal office environment.

5.5.2.2. (Added)(AF) DLA Document Services is a point of contact for Air Force efforts to migrate
to digital and multifunctional platforms when security accreditations and disk purging utilities are
approved by the security community. DLA Document Services will coordinate with the Base
Information Assurance Office to obtain appropriate authority to connect certification and
Designated Accrediting Authority (DAA). (T-1)

5.5.2.3. (Added)(AF) Once the equipment provider’s have approved the placement of a copier
it can’t be moved by the Air Force organization as doing so may void the warranty. Moving
of copiers may not be done without the equipment provider’s approval.

5.5.2.4. (Added)(AF) OPR will post the appropriate classified processing visual aids. When copiers
are authorized for classified reproduction, use visual aids that outline Classified Reproduction
Rules (reference AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management). (T-0)


5.5.2.5. (Added)(AF) Air Force activities will procure at least 50% recycled paper for printing
product in accordance with United States Title 10, Sec. 2378. Air Force activities should
evaluate best price from various vendors, including DLA Document Services, before a decision
to purchase is made.

5.5.3. (Added)(AF) Use green procurement in the acquisition of environmentally preferable
products and services IAW Federal Acquisition Regulation, Part 23.


 6. RELATIONSHIPS

 6.1. In the performance of assigned responsibilities and functions, the Director, DAPS DLA
 Document Services shall:

 6.1.1. Maintain liaison with the DoD Components, other Government Agencies, and private
 sector organizations for the exchange of information concerning assigned programs, activities,
 and responsibilities.

    6.1.2. Use existing systems, facilities, and services of the Department of Defense and other
    Federal Agencies, when practicable, to avoid duplication and to achieve maximum efficiency and
    economy.
DODI5330.03_AFI33-395 11 JULY 2012                                                                     8


 6.2. The Heads of the DoD Components shall coordinate with the Director, DAPS DLA Document
 Services on all matters related to the responsibilities and functions assigned in this Instruction.
6.2.1. (Added)(AF) For additional guidance visit the DLA Document Services web
site at http://www.documentservices.dla.mil/.


 7. RELEASABILITY. UNLIMITED. This Instruction is approved for public release and is available
 on the Internet from the DoD Issuances Website at http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives.
 78. EFFECTIVE DATE:

 This Instruction is effective immediately.




                                                  MICHAEL J. BASLA, Lt Gen, USAF
                                                  Chief, Information Dominance and
                                                  Chief Information Officer
9                                                        DODI5330.03_AFI33-395 11 JULY 2012

(Added)(AF) Attachment 1 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING
INFORMATION


References


Title 44 United States Code, Public Printing and Documents Public Law 103-337, National Defense
Act of 1998, Section 2378, October 5, 1994 Senate Publication 101-9, Government Printing and
Binding Regulations (GPBR) (available from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government
Printing Office, Washington DC 20402)
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 8 September 2011
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005
AFI 51-303, Intellectual Property--Patents, Patent Related Matters, Trademarks, and Copyrights, 1
September 1998
AFI 64-117, Air Force Government-wide Purchase Card (GPC) Program, 20 September 2011
AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 3 March 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DAPS-USAF Memorandum of Agreement, 2 February 2005
Adopted Forms

GPO Form 3868, Notification of Intent to Publish
DD Form 282, DoD Printing Requisition/Order
DD Form 843, Requisition for Printing and Binding Service
DD Form 844, Requisition for Local Duplicating Service
DD Form 448, Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR)
DD Form 1144, Support Agreement
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms

AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRSI—Air Force Recruiting Service Instruction
ANG—Air National Guard
AT&L—Acquisition, Technology and Logistics
CPPMO—Central Printing and Publications Management Organization
DAA—Designated Accrediting Authority
DD—Department of Defense (used to designate forms)
DLA—Defense Logistics Agency
DoD—Department of Defense
DODI5330.03_AFI33-395 11 JULY 2012                                                              10

DoDD—DoD Directive
DoDI—DoD Instruction
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
GPC—Government Purchase Card (formerly IMPAC)
GPBR—Government Printing and Binding Regulations
GPO—Government Printing Office
HPO—High Performing Organization
IAW—In Accordance With
IMPAC—International Merchant Purchase Authorization Card (replaced by GPC)
JCP—Joint Committee on Printing
MAJCOM—Major Command
MEO—Most Efficient Organization
MIPR—Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request
NAF—Nonappropriated Funds
OMB—Office of Management and Budget
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SLA—Service Level Agreement
TO—Technical Order
USAF—United States Air Force
USC—United States Code
USD—Under Secretary of Defense

Terms

Automation Service—A service that provides the equipment and techniques used to bring about
an automatic operation and control of that operation.

Binding—The process used to finish a book, pamphlet, or single sheet of paper after the printing is
completed. Binding processes include: gluing, sewing, and stitching; drilling and punching;
collating; folding, cutting, and trimming; stamping and lettering; simple hand stapling and
punching tools. Binding processes do not include: simple hand stapling and punching tools;
manual and semiautomatic collators.

Central Printing and Publications Management Organization (CPPMO)—The organization that
manages the agency's printing program. The Air Force CPPMO is SAF/A6PP.

Composition—The use of phototypesetting or electronic character-generating devices to set type
and produce camera copy, negatives, plates, or images for printing and microform production.

Copier—Device that makes copies by electrostatic, thermal, digital or other copying processes at
speeds no greater than 55 pages per minute for black and white, and color speeds no greater than
30 pages per minute – to include multifunctional devices with scan, fax, and other features.

DLA Document Services—The service that manages the DoD consolidated printing and duplicating
programs and the commercial procurement of printed items through the GPO. They are a
Primary Level Field Activity (PLFA) of the Defense Logistics Agency who is the executive agent
11                                                       DODI5330.03_AFI33-395 11 JULY 2012

for DoD printing.

Document—Recorded information in paper or some other medium.

Document Conversion—Converting paper, microfiche, microfilm, aperture cards and digital
documents to digital form, and providing the infrastructure for quick, economical, and secure
digital distribution and output at the point of need. Contact the DLA Document Services office
manager for specific document conversion capabilities.

Duplicating—Producing material in one color, using an electrostatic process; stencil, master, or
offset plate not made with an intermediate film.

Document Services—DLA Document Services is the DoD single manager for printing and high
speed high volume duplicating, including both the operation of DoD in-house facilities and the
commercial procurement of these services from outside the Department of Defense, and the
preferred provider for document conversion and/or automation services.

Electronic Printing—Electronic composition, reproduction, and finishing of information for
general distribution produced through high-speed (65 copies per minute or more) imaging without
a plate, using nonimpact methods on paper, film, magnetic, or optical media.

Government Printing Office (GPO)—The primary source of federal printing managed by the
Public Printer. The Regional Printing Procurement Offices are established by the Public Printer
to buy federal printing in their areas.

Government Printing and Binding Regulations (GPBR)—Government printing and binding
regulations issued by the Congressional JCP.

Printing—Any process that produces multiple copies of printed material. This includes
composition, platemaking, press work (includes electronic printing), and binding. It does not
include office photocopying or any other method that is capable of only limited production.

Waiver—A formal request submitted to DLA Document Services through SAF/A6PP to exempt an
Air Force organization from using DLA Document Services and support.
