BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                     DOVER AIR FORCE BASE
DOVER AIR FORCE BASE                                                             INSTRUCTION 32-101
                                                                                              27 JULY 2006

                                                                                          Civil Engineering

                                                            UNIT ENVIRONMENTAL COORDINATOR



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 436 CES/CEV                                        Certified by: 436 CES/CC (Lt Col Mark A. Ruse)
Supersedes DOVERAFBI32-101,                                                                 Pages: 10
           9 December 2002

This instruction implements AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, for Dover Air Force Base by providing
guidance on establishing and standardizing an environmental quality program and environmental man-
agement procedures. Dover Air Force Base is committed to: cleaning up environmental damage result-
ing from past activities, meeting all environmental standards applicable to its present operations; planning
its future activities to minimize environmental impacts; managing responsibly the irreplaceable natural
and cultural resources it holds in public trust; and eliminating pollution from its activities wherever possi-
ble. This base instruction establishes responsibilities and procedures from managing and environmental
unit coordinate infrastructure on Dover Air Force Base and is applicable to organizations under the 436th
and 512th Airlift Wing. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publica-
tion are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes include:
The Dover Air Force Base Environmental, Safety, Occupational and Health (ESOH) committee has
directed the 436 Civil Engineering Squadron Environmental Flight (436 CES/CEV) to set up the proce-
dures that Dover AFB must follow in order to maintain an environmentally sound installation. 436 CES/
CEV determined that the key issue to maintaining an environmentally sound installation was eliminating
non-compliance with federal, state and local environmental requirements. After reviewing several years
of Environmental, Safety, Occupational, and Health Compliance Assessment Management Program
(ESOHCAMP) reports, the ESOH committee determined the root cause of noncompliance was attribut-
able to a lack of manpower, lack of following established procedures, lack of communication among base
organizations, lack of ensuring accountability and lack of training.
2                                                                 DOVERAFBI32-101 27 JULY 2006


1. Responsibilities of Associate Wings, Wing Staff and Tenant Organizations
    1.1. Ensure the respective units comply with all federal, state, and local regulatory laws, and DoD,
    Air Force, Air Mobility Command, and base environmental polices.
    1.2. At the discretion of the Commander, appoint an environmental coordinator. Send an appoint-
    ment letter to 436 CES/CEV.
       1.2.1. The 512 AW may appoint a single UEC for the purposes of this regulation.
    1.3. Provide direct access for UECs to Wing, Wing Staff and tenant organization commanders.
    1.4. For civilian personnel, place an addendum into the UECs position description. Attachment 2
    has a suggested addendum for use.
    1.5. Direct subordinate commanders to assign members to appropriate working groups as requested
    by the Environmental, Safety, Occupational Health (ESOH) committee chairperson.
    1.6. Ensures that each environmental coordinator has the minimum training required as outlined in
    Attachment 3.
    1.7. Ensures that all environmental matters are addressed to 436 AW/JA for review of potential legal
    issues.

2. Group Commander Responsibilities.
    2.1. Ensure the respective group complies with all federal, state, and local regulations and laws, and
    DOD, Air Force, Air Mobility Command, and base environmental polices.
    2.2. Appoints a group UEC. Send an electronic appointment letter to the 436 CES/CEV office.
       2.2.1. If possible, this position be a MSgt (E-7)/GS-09 or above.
    2.3. Provides direct access for group UEC's environmental coordinators to group commander’s
    office.
    2.4. For civilian personnel, place an addendum into the group UECs position description. Attach-
    ment 2 has a suggested addendum for use.
    2.5. Directs squadron commanders to assign members to appropriate working groups as requested by
    the ESOH chairperson.
    2.6. Ensures that each group coordinator has the minimum training required as outlined in Attach-
    ment 3.
    2.7. Ensures that all environmental matters are addressed to 436 CES/CEV for a review of potential
    legal issues.

3. Group Environmental Coordinator Responsibilities
    3.1. Represents their group in all environmental matters.
    3.2. Ensures environmental matters pertaining to each respective group are forwarded to the appropri-
    ate office in a timely manner.
    3.3. Ensures that environmental matters are addressed to 436 AW/JA for review of potential legal
    issues.
DOVERAFBI32-101 27 JULY 2006                                                                           3


   3.4. Ensures that all environmental training requirements for their respective group are identified to
   436 CES/CEV.
   3.5. Ensures all environmental requirements of each respective group are documented, appropriate
   paperwork completed, and submitted for funding. (see paragraph 6., for funding procedures).
   3.6. Provides updates directly to each respective group commander on a recurring basis, but no less
   than once per quarter before the wing ESOH committee meeting.
   3.7. Attends all ESOH committee meetings with each respective group commander.
   3.8. Represents each respective group at all ESOH sub-committee meetings.
   3.9. Makes recommendations to the group commander on the membership of environmental working
   groups.
   3.10. Identifies areas of concern to the group commanders, environmental office and environmental
   subcommittees.
   3.11. Maintains a list of UECs for each squadron within their respective group.
   3.12. Reports the status of open ESOHCAMP findings to each respective group commander.
   3.13. Maintains a master copy of ESOHCAMP checklist and appropriate reference materials.
   3.14. Ensures any changes in policies and procedures are disseminated to appropriate level.
   3.15. Acts as liaison for each respective group with 436 CES/CEV.
   3.16. Attend all environmental training identified in Attachment 3.

4. Squadron Commander Responsibilities.
   4.1. Ensures the respective squadron complies with all federal, state, local laws, and DOD, Air Force
   and Air Mobility Command and base environmental policies.
   4.2. Appoints a squadron UEC, with consultation of the group UEC if necessary. Send an electronic
   appointment letter through each respective group commander to the 436 CES/CEV office.
      4.2.1. Ensures that all environmental matters are addressed to 436 CES/CEV for a review of
      potential legal issues.
   4.3. Provides direct access for squadron UECs to squadron commander’s office.
   4.4. Assigns squadron members to environmental working groups as directed by the group com-
   mander.
   4.5. For civilian personnel, place an addendum into the Squadron UECs position description.
   Attachment 2 has a suggested addendum for use.

5. Squadron Environmental Coordinator Responsibilities.
   5.1. Represents each respective squadron in all environmental matters.
   5.2. Ensures environmental matters pertaining to each respective squadron are forwarded to the
   appropriate office in a timely manner.
4                                                                  DOVERAFBI32-101 27 JULY 2006


       5.2.1. Ensures that all environmental matters are addressed to 436 CES/CEV for a review of
       potential legal issues.
    5.3. Ensures that all environmental training requirements within each respective squadron are identi-
    fied.
    5.4. Ensures all environmental requirements of each respective squadron are documented, appropriate
    paperwork completed and submitted for funding (see paragraph 6. for Funding Procedures).
    5.5. Makes recommendations to each respective squadron commander on the membership of environ-
    mental working groups.
    5.6. Identifies areas of concern to the squadron commander, group coordinator, and/or environmental
    office.
    5.7. Reports the status of open ESOHCAMP findings to their respective squadron commander and
    group coordinator.
    5.8. Maintains a copy of appropriate ESOHCAMP checklist items that pertain to their respective
    squadron.
    5.9. Acts as liaison, with the appropriate group coordinator, with 436 CES/CEV.
    5.10. Attend the next available class of "Duties and Responsibilities of UEC" provided by the 436
    CES/CEV.
    5.11. "Hazardous Materials Management", ensure supervisory personnel provide copies of all com-
    pleted AF Form 3952, Hazardous Materials Requests for informational purposes. The UEC will
    review all AF Form 3952 to ensure only appropriate Hazardous Materials are being purchased and
    used with-in their areas of responsibility.

6. Environmental Flight (436 CES/CEV) Responsibilities.
    6.1. Provides environmental guidance and policy to group and squadron UEC's.
    6.2. Provides a system to acquire environmental funds to remedy any situation that can't otherwise be
    corrected.
    6.3. Provides training to UECs when requested and validated.
    6.4. Provides ESOHCAMP checklists and supplements to group coordinators.
    6.5. Ensures that all environmental matters are addressed to 436 AW/JA for review of potential legal
    issues.

7. Funding
    7.1. Defining. The first step in the funding process is determining environmental requirements for
    each particular unit. The Air Force Instructions for environmental management gives broad guide-
    lines on how the Air Force complies with environmental laws and regulations. Additionally, the Envi-
    ronmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and
    Environmental Controls (DNREC) and other agencies provide rules and guidelines for conducting
    activities in an environmentally sound manner. The Air Force has put all of these requirements into
    checklists that form the basis for the ESOHCAMP. Review of these checklists with respect to opera-
    tions in each squadron should give an initial starting point for defining requirements. Additionally, as
DOVERAFBI32-101 27 JULY 2006                                                                             5


  the awareness of the installation increases, further technical training can help in assuring all require-
  ments that are needed to comply with the appropriate laws are defined.
  7.2. Validation. The Air Force has determined that anything that is currently not in compliance or
  will go out of compliance in the next year will be funded in the current year budget to ensure that all
  compliance issues are accomplished. In addition to compliance funding, there is conservation funding
  and pollution prevention funding. Air Force Instruction 32-7001, Environmental Budgeting, covers
  the Air Force policy on each funding source and the associated valid requirements.
     7.2.1. Submitting Validation Request to 436 CES/CEV. Attachment 4 shows the necessary infor-
     mation that should be provided to 436 CES/CEV to validate a funds request. A memorandum
     with the information is essential to insure proper accounting of environmental funds. Each mem-
     orandum should have the necessary information, necessary forms attached, appropriate coordina-
     tor signature and the appropriate commander’s approval, before being forwarded to 436 CES/
     CEV. In addition, squadrons/tenant units are permitted to use their funds to make purchases of
     environmental supplies or equipment with 436 CES/CEV approval.
         7.2.1.1. Equipment Purchases. An AF Form 2005, Issue/Turn-in Request, AF Form 601,
         Equipment Action Request, and DD Form 1348-6, DOD Single Line Item Requisition System
         Document, should be filled out for each item being requested over $2,500.00.
         7.2.1.2. Supply Purchases. An AF Form 2005 and DD Form 1348-6 should be filled out for
         each item requested over $2,500.00.
         7.2.1.3. Services. An AF Form 9, Request for Purchase, should be filled out for each service
         requested over $2,500.00.
         7.2.1.4. Construction. An AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, should be filled
         out for each project/job requested.
         7.2.1.5. Turn-in of Equipment/Supplies. This item does not currently apply. The only item
         that is turned in at this time is hazardous waste and this is funded through 436 CES/CEV. In
         the future this may change. A DD Form 1348-1A, Issue Release/Receipt Document, should be
         filled out for each item.
         7.2.1.6. Training. Provide brochure describing desired training.
         7.2.1.7. TDYs. Attach a copy of a brochure/letter that describes the seminar, training course,
         benchmark candidate or symposium that the individuals are interested in attending.
     7.2.2. 436 CES/CEV Validation. Once all of the appropriate forms are accomplished, 436 CES/
     CEV through guidance documents and Air Force Policy memorandums, determines if the require-
     ment is valid.
  7.3. Approval. The ultimate approval authority for all environmental requirements is the ESOH com-
  mittee. Once 436 CES/CEV has validated the requirement, the ESOH committee or appropriate
  sub-committee will approve the funding for the requirement.
  7.4. Accountable Equipment. Due to the constraints of the budget system, there will be no transfer of
  funds across PECs to allow individual units to purchase equipment through their unit equipment
  accounts. PECs 41853, 41854, and 41856 will remain under 436 CES/CEV control. The approved
  DD Form 1348-6 will reflect CEV organizational codes and each unit will transfer the purchased
  equipment to their unit accounts once the equipment has arrived on base.
6                                                                 DOVERAFBI32-101 27 JULY 2006


    7.5. Future Programming Efforts. The future of environmental funding is uncertain. A large part of
    the Air Force feels that the money for environmental issues should be programmed and funded at the
    base level through the O&M program. In light of this, each group and squadron must keep their
    respective resource managers aware of funding requirements. Submission of the environmental fund-
    ing request information at Attachment 4 should allow a historical tracking of environmental costs for
    each organization.



                                               SAMUEL D. COX, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander
DOVERAFBI32-101 27 JULY 2006                                                                    7


                                          Attachment 1

            GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
DNREC—Delaware Department Natural Resources and Environmental Control
ESOHCAMP—Environmental, Safety, Occupational Health Compliance Assessment and Management
Program
ESOH—committee – Environmental, Safety, Occupational Health committee
PEC—Program Element Code
POC—Point of Contact
RCRA—Resources Conservation and Recovery Act

Terms
Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment and Management
Program (ESOHCAMP)—An audit program used by the Air Force to assess the compliance status of an
installation.
ESOH committee—The main body of the base that is responsible for the oversight of the installation
environmental, safety and occupational health programs. Representation is each group commander,
commanders/managers of major tenant organizations, and technical representatives.
ESOH committee Chairman—The 436 AW/CC or the 436 AW/CV will be the ESOH Chairman.
ESOH Sub-Committee—Committees that report to the ESOH committee on Pollution Prevention,
Compliance, Environmental Planning, Technical Review, and Training and Emergency Response. This
also includes Safety and Occupational Health.
Environmental Working Groups—Working groups that report to the ESOH committee and its
sub-committee on specific issues relating to environmental management.
Unit Environmental Coordinator, Group—The person who represents the 436 OG/CC, 436 MSG/CC,
436 MXG/CC, or the 436 MDG/CC on environmental issues.
Unit Environmental Coordinator, Squadron—The person that is the representative of each squadron
on base for environmental issues.
8                                                                 DOVERAFBI32-101 27 JULY 2006


                                             Attachment 2

        POSITION DESCRIPTION ADDENDUM FOR CIVILIAN ENVIRONMENTAL
                              COORDINATORS


Addendum for Position No._________________
Unit Environmental Coordinator
Serves as Unit Environmental Coordinator when required, for the group/squadron to provide a
focal point for problems/issues in each unit that need to be corrected/addressed to the
Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health (ESOH) committee and its various
sub-committee. Attends all environmental meetings i.e., ESOH, Pollution Prevention,
Compliance, Planning, and Emergency Response subcommittees, and working groups (where
appropriate). Ensures information flows smoothly to all levels in the chain of command. Ensures
environmental tasks are distributed in an expeditious manner and information is compiled for
respective organizations. Ensures environmental needs of organization are documented and
budgeted accordingly. Ensures coordinators at every level are enrolled in any and all training
available on environmental subjects. Identifies problem areas such as lack of manpower because
of increasing responsibility of environmental issues. Obtains/maintains a listing of POCs in each
organization and sends forward to next level. Ensures any changes in policy and procedures are
disseminated to all levels in the organization. Will maintain Environmental, Safety and
Occupational Health Compliance Assessment and Management Program protocols and
appropriate references.
SKILL CODE: 20% AAX Environmental Protection Assistant
DOVERAFBI32-101 27 JULY 2006                                                                         9


                                             Attachment 3

        REQUIRED TRAINING FOR GROUP ENVIRONMENTAL COORDINATORS


Hazardous Waste Management Class – A 40 hour course that provides for the basic
understanding of all environmental rules as they apply to hazardous waste generation. The
course covers the Resources Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) rules, Department of
Transportation (DOT) rules, the Clean Air Act and Clean Water Act as they apply to hazardous
waste, and various other federal regulations. This class is taught here at Dover AFB through
satellite training.
Environmental Compliance and Assessment Management Program (ECAMP) – A 24 to 48
hour course that teaches each student the procedures for conducting and ECAMP audit. The
training will cover 13 protocol areas, interviewing skills and report writing. The class is taught
either through the Air Force Institute of Technology’s tele-video network or by qualified base
personnel.
Hazardous Communication Training (HAZCOM) – An 8 hour class on how to correctly
handle hazardous materials and work in a hazardous environment. The class is taught here at
Dover AFB by base instructors. Mandatory for all base personnel that handle hazardous
materials.
Hazardous Materials Awareness Training – A 16 hour class that provides students with the
basic understanding of working with hazardous materials. It covers emergency response and
disaster preparedness. The class is taught here at Dover AFB by base instructors. Also
recommended for squadron and lower level unit environmental coordinators.
Pollution Prevention Training – An 8 hour course that gives the student the basics in pollution
prevention techniques. Provides an understanding of best management practices that can prevent
pollution from occurring. The class is provided here at Dover AFB by satellite training at the
Education Office.
10                                                              DOVERAFBI32-101 27 JULY 2006


                                           Attachment 4

            ENVIRONMENTAL FUNDING REQUEST REQUIRED INFORMATION


When requesting environmental funds please include the following information in letter format:
Request Date
Required/Need Date
Project Title
Name, Phone Number, Organization, and Unit Address of Requesting Individual/Equipment
Custodian (if Applicable)
Name, Phone Number, Organization, and Unit Address of Individual who can Answer Technical
Questions
Policy/Law and Date of Violation or Date of Violation without Requirement
Description of Requirement
Justification
Unit Coordinator’s Signature
Unit Commander’s Approval
