BY THE ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                     DOVER AFB INSTRUCTION 32-1032
HQ 436TH AIRLIFT WING (AMC)                                                             15 JANUARY 1998

                                                                                  CIVIL ENGINEERING

                                                                    FACILITIES BOARD STRUCTURE




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO/PP WWW site at:
               http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: 436 SPTG/CEC                                                              Certified by: 436 SPTG/CE
     (John Sclesky)                                                             (Lieutenant Colonel Dean)
                                                                                                   Pages: 5
                                                                                            Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities. This instruction establishes proce-
dures for the 436th Airlift Wing Facilities Board (FB), its working group, and functional area panels. The
FB provides corporate review of real property, facilities, and infrastructure requirements.



1. RESPONSIBILITIES: The FB structure provides corporate review and direction to facilitate effi-
cient use of Base Civil Engineering (BCE) resources in accomplishing the wing mission, goals, and objec-
tives. The following facility and infrastructure actions will be presented for FB validation, priority
determination, and approval: (1) All space utilization requirements including real estate in/out grants, dis-
posal, acquisitions, and occupancy. (2) Programmed work requirements including all maintenance, repair,
and construction projects designated for contract execution; all service and indefinite delivery contract
actions valued at $5K or more; all maintenance, repair, and construction projects designated for execution
with in-house BCE resources and valued at $25K or more; and all self-help projects valued at $5K or
more. (3) All community planning requirements including future land use, facility siting, transportation
network, capital improvements, area development, and air installation compatible use.

2. PROCEDURES : The Commander, 436 Airlift Wing, establishes the FB with duties and responsibil-
ities as follows:
   2.1. The FB is chaired by the Wing Commander. The chairperson appoints other voting members rep-
   resenting the installation’s major functions.
   2.2. Non-voting members are appointed as needed.
   2.3. The FB will meet every three (3) months (minimum) at a time and place to be determined.
   2.4. Attendance at scheduled FB meetings is mandatory for voting members or their alternates. Alter-
   nates are expected to vote with full authority of the primary member. Interim actions may be effected
2                                                                  DAFBI32-1032 15 JanUary 1998


    through coordination with voting FB members and approval of the chairperson. Interim actions will
    be documented by memorandum and attached as a supplement to minutes of the next FB meeting.
    2.5. Facility Board Membership:
    Voting Members:
    Commander, 436 Airlift Wing (Chairperson)
    Commander, 512 Airlift Wing
    Commander, 436 Support Group
    Commander, 436 Operations Group
    Commander, 436 Logistics Group
    Commander, 436 Medical Group
    Non-Voting Members:
    Commander, Civil Engineer Squadron (facilitator)
    Commander, Comptroller Squadron
    Commander, Communications Squadron
    Commander, Contracting Squadron

3. FACILITIES BOARD WORKING GROUP: Within the FB structure, the Facilities Board Work-
ing Group (FBWG) serves to provide oversight and direction to supporting functional area panels. The
FBWG reviews actions under consideration by functional area panels and determines which actions are
sufficiently staffed to go forward, with recommendations, to the FB. The FBWG presents its findings and
recommends validation, priority, and/or approval of facility and infrastructure requirements at each FB
meeting. The FBWG will meet one month (optimum) prior to each FB meeting, at a time and place to be
determined.
    3.1. Facilities Board Working Group Membership:
    Voting Members:
    Vice Commander, 436 Airlift Wing (Chairperson)
    Vice Commander, 512 Airlift Wing
    Deputy Commander, 436 Support Group
    Deputy Commander, 436 Operations Group
    Deputy Commander, 436 Logistics Group
    Deputy Commander, 436 Medical Group
    Non-Voting Members:
    Commander, Civil Engineer Squadron (facilitator)
    Commander, Comptroller Squadron
    Commander, Communications Squadron
DAFBI32-1032 15 JanUary 1998                                                                            3


   Commander, Contracting Squadron

4. FUNCTIONAL AREA PANELS : Within the FBWG structure, panels categorically focus on func-
tional areas of concern for facility and infrastructure actions, i.e., Space Utilization, Programmed Work,
and Community Planning. Each panel is charged with evaluating requirements, identifying contentions
among competing entities, and proposing options for FBWG consideration. Each panel has an appointed
administrator and is comprised of squadron commanders or their designated representative. Panels will
meet monthly (minimum) and report at each FBWG meeting.
   4.1. Space Utilization Panel (SUP). The SUP addresses real estate requirements including property
   in/out grants, disposal, acquisitions, and facility occupancy. The SUP develops options and presents
   them to the FBWG with recommended action. The SUP meets monthly (minimum) and report on its
   actions at each FBWG meeting. The SUP is administered by the Chief, Real Estate Management (436
   CES/CERR) and is comprised of squadron commanders or their designated representatives with inter-
   est in the actions being considered.
       4.1.1. Space utilization requests are submitted in writing to 436 CES/CERR. All requests will be
       accompanied by appropriate graphics describing the spaces, facilities, or locations involved.
   4.2. Programmed Work Panel (PWP). The PWP addresses all maintenance, repair, and construction
   requirements designated for contract execution; all service and indefinite delivery contract actions
   valued at $5K or more; all maintenance, repair, and construction requirements designated for execu-
   tion with in-house BCE resources and valued at $25k or more; and all self-help projects valued at $5K
   or more.
       4.2.1. The PWP develops a priority list of approved work requirements (work orders) by group
       and by execution category. A separate list of Wing Commander special interest requirements will
       be maintained. The PWP consolidates each set of group priorities into a proposed integrated list of
       wing priorities and presents it to the FBWG for review. The FBWG recommends an integrated list
       of priorities by execution category to the FB for approval. The PWP meets monthly (minimum)
       and reports its actions at each FBWG meeting.
       4.2.2. The PWP is administered by the Deputy, Base Civil Engineer (436 CES/CEE) and is com-
       prised of squadron commanders or their designated representatives with interest in the actions
       being considered.
       4.2.3. Work requests are submitted on Form 332, “Base Civil Engineer Work Request.” Upon
       review, validation, and approval work requests are designated as work orders. Work orders are cat-
       egorized for execution by either in-house BCE resources, contract, or self-help. Approval author-
       ity is the Commander, Base Civil Engineering (436 CES/CC).
   4.3. Community Planning Panel (CPP). The CPP addresses all community planning requirements
   including future land use, facility siting, transportation network, capital improvements, area develop-
   ment, and air installation compatible use. The CPP facilitates annual review of the “436 Airlift Wing
   Horizon Plan,” initiates revisions to the “Air Installation Compatible Use Zone Report” as necessary
   and assures all space utilization and programmed work requirements are consistent with the “Base
   Comprehensive Plan (BCP).”
       4.3.1. The CPP is administered by the Chief, Program Management (436 CES/CECP) and is com-
       prised of designated group representatives and base agencies with interest in actions before the
       panel. The CPP meets monthly, as necessary, and reports its actions at each FBWG meeting.
4                                                                   DAFBI32-1032 15 JanUary 1998


       4.3.2. CPP requirements may be generated at all levels in the FB process, by major command
       headquarters, or entities external to the Department of Defense, e.g., Federal Aviation Authority
       and city, county, or regional planning councils. The Chief, Program Management is responsible
       for identifying all CPP requirements.

5. The FB, FBWG, and Functional Area Panel meetings are open to members of any unit when an action
affecting that unit is being considered.

6. FB, FBWG, and Functional Area Panel meeting minutes will be published and distributed within one
week of the respective meeting.



                                                       FELIX M. GRIEDER, Colonel, USAF
                                                       Commander
DAFBI32-1032 15 JanUary 1998                          5


                                 Attachment 1

                         FACILITIES BOARD STRUCTURE
