BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                                            DOVER AIR FORCE BASE
436TH AIRLIFT WING                                                                                      INSTRUCTION 31-218

                                                                                                                              23 JULY 2013

                                                                                                                                        Security

                                                                     MOTOR VEHICLE TRAFFIC SUPERVISION




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 436 SFS/S5SP                                                                                           Certified by: 436 SFS/CC
                                                                                                            (Maj. Melissa G. Brown)
                                                                                                                            Pages: 32
Supersedes:    AFI31-204_DOVERAFB
               SUP_I, 14 May 2008;
               DOVERAFBI31-204,
               17 January 2007


This instruction implements AFI 31-218(I), Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision and applies to all
personnel assigned, attached or transiting Dover AFB and all personnel residing on or visiting
Dover AFB. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command.




       1.      General: ..................................................................................................................    2
       2.      Driving Privileges: .................................................................................................          2
       3.      Motor Vehicle Supervision ....................................................................................                 8
       4.      Traffic Supervision. ...............................................................................................           8
 2                                                                                      DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013


Table 1.        Authorized Reserved Parking Signs ......................................................................                      16
        5.      Driving Record and the Traffic Point System ........................................................                          21
Table 2.        Suspension/Revocation of Driving Privileges. ......................................................                           21
        6.      Impounding and Towing Privately Owned Vehicles .............................................                                  22
        7.      Troop Movements. .................................................................................................            24
        8.      Bicycles ..................................................................................................................   24
        9.      Traffic Signs and Markings ...................................................................................                25
        10.     Pedestrian Traffic ...................................................................................................        25
        11.     Skateboards, Roller-Skates, Roller-Blades and Other Non-Motorized Modes of
                Transportation ........................................................................................................       25
        12.     Miscellaneous ........................................................................................................        26

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                28

Attachment 2—DEFINITIONS                                                                                                                      31


1. General:
     1.1. This instruction applies to any person operating a motor vehicle on any road under
     Dover AFB jurisdiction. Additionally, certain provisions of this instruction apply to
     pedestrian and individuals operating non-motor vehicles as outlined in chapters 7 through 12.
     Furthermore, provisions of this instruction as noted below shall also apply to the operation of
     Government Motor Vehicles (GMV) regardless of geographic location.
     1.2. Delegation of Authority. Authority under this instruction is delegated to the 436th
     Mission Support Group Commander (436 MSG/CC) and Deputy Commander (436
     MSG/CD). This includes the authority to suspend and revoke driving privileges.
        1.2.1. The 436 MSG/CD is also designated as the DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic
        Ticket, rebuttal authority.
     1.3. Unit commanders are responsible for:
        1.3.1. Placing this instruction in a location accessible to all personnel and periodically
        ensuring all personnel are aware this code governs all vehicles and pedestrians on Dover
        AFB.
        1.3.2. Ensuring personnel departing Dover AFB due to Permanent Change of Station
        (PCS), retirement, or separation comply with section 2.4.6.1 before out-processing.
2. Driving Privileges:
     2.1. Requirements for Driving.
        2.1.1. Base contractors must produce an AF Form 75, Visitor/Vehicle Pass, or computer
        generated contractor badge. International driver’s licenses will be honored for a period of
        30 days after arriving in Delaware.
DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013                                                                   3


     2.1.2. Rental vehicles for TDY personnel are not required to obtain additional insurance,
     insurance is covered in military contracts. Proof of insurance consists of an insurance
     card or other documents issued by the insurance company that has a policy effective date
     and an expiration date. Vehicle drivers not in possession of these required documents
     will not operate motor vehicles on Dover AFB. If a vehicle operator is detained on base
     due to a violation of this section, it will be the operator’s responsibility to correct the
     problem before being allowed to operate the vehicle on base. If the vehicle operator
     cannot correct the problem immediately, the vehicle must be parked in an area where it
     does not interfere with traffic flow and removed as soon as possible. Abandoned vehicle
     procedures will be initiated for vehicles exceeding 72 hours without registration. The
     vehicle will be towed immediately if it causes traffic/parking problems. If the vehicle
     registration is expired for more than three months, it may be towed. Operators of a GMV
     are exempt from registration and insurance requirements. Personnel operating a GMV
     over 14,000 pounds gross vehicle weight (GVW) must be in possession of AF Form 2293
     for the type of vehicle being operated (IAW AFI 24-301, para 8.4.1.3).
  2.2. Stopping and Inspecting Personnel or Vehicles:
     2.2.1. GMVs may be stopped by law enforcement personnel for all lawful and
     administrative reasons allowed by this instruction to include installation entry/exit point
     inspections, 100% vehicle inspections, etc.
     2.2.2. Individuals operating a GMV assigned to Dover AFB may not refuse installation
     entry/exit point inspections or restricted area inspections.
  2.3. Implied Consent:
     2.3.1. Implied Consent to Impoundment:
         2.3.1.1. Whenever a vehicle is involved in a traffic infraction or criminal activity and
         cannot be safely moved from the roadway, the driver is deemed to have given consent
         for removal/impoundment as well.
         2.3.1.2. If a person fails to meet or refuses such obligations, privilege to operate or
         register a motor vehicle on Dover AFB may be revoked for a period of one year.
         2.3.1.3. Determination of the existence of these conditions for the purpose of towing
         or impounding a vehicle is delegated to the on duty security forces flight sergeant or
         higher authority.
         2.3.1.4. 436 SFS/S2I may have a vehicle impounded if the vehicle is believed to have
         been involved in the commission of a crime, contains evidence or contraband.
  2.4. Suspension or Revocation of Driving or Privately Owned Vehicle Registration
  Privileges:
     2.4.1. All persons operating a vehicle on Dover AFB are subject to receiving a
     preliminary suspension for suspected Drunk Driving/Driving under the Influence (DUI).
     Failure to submit to a blood alcohol chemical test or in order to preserve public safety and
     good order and discipline.
         2.4.1.1. Immediate suspension is only authorized for non–DoD affiliated civilians if
         the incident occurs on base.
4                                                      DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013


       2.4.1.2. The preservation of public safety and good order and discipline is defined as
       any driver behavior that jeopardizes the safety or well-being of any person on Dover
       AFB. This provision should only be used for significant traffic infractions (e.g. drag
       racing, car surfing, pulling a skater or bicyclist behind a vehicle, etc.) as determined
       by the 436 MSG/CC or CD.
       2.4.1.3. Preliminary suspensions/revocations for this purpose will not be for less than
       one year unless the violator’s commander action or magistrate disposition reveals
       dismissal of charges or acquittal.
           2.4.1.3.1. A letter addressing this matter will be issued by Security Forces at the
           discretion of the 436 MSG/CC or CD. Preliminary suspensions for DUI or refusal
           of Implied Consent will take effect immediately upon receipt.
    2.4.2. Military personnel and DoD civilians whose state driving privileges are suspended
    or revoked for any reason must notify the 436 SFS/CC, in writing, as soon as the
    suspension or revocation becomes effective.
    2.4.3. Security Forces, with the approval of the 436 MSG/CC or CD, will issue a
    presigned preliminary driving suspension letter ordering the subject not to operate a
    vehicle on Dover AFB pending official notification of driving revocation, prior to the
    subject’s release from police custody. For intoxicated driving incidents occurring off
    base, the subject will report to the Base Defense Operations Center (BDOC) with a
    supervisor or first sergeant the beginning of the next day, regardless of duty status, to
    receive a preliminary suspension. The 436 SFS/S5R will staff the appropriate revocation
    letter package to the 436 MSG/CC or CD and issue the letter to the offender when signed.
    2.4.4. Unit commanders may suspend driving privileges of military personnel assigned
    to their units for up to 30-days for traffic/vehicle safety violations. Suspensions must be
    coordinated through the Base Legal Office (436 AW/JA) and approved by the 436
    MSG/CD or higher authority in advance. Once approved, an email message will be sent
    to 436 SFS/S5R providing the subject’s name, initiation date and termination date and
    provided a copy of the suspension letter and supporting documents. Violations that
    require a 30-day driving suspension will be referred to the unit commander for action.
    2.4.5. The 436 SFS/S5R will forward revocation, suspension, and driving records of
    individuals permanently changing station from Dover AFB to the gaining installation’s
    Reports and Analysis section.
       2.4.5.1. All personnel assigned to Dover AFB will out-process through vMPF and
       Reports and Analysis. The Security Forces Management Information System
       (SFMIS) will be updated and driving records forwarded to gaining installations.
       Units not utilizing SFMIS will be sent a hard copy of the individual’s orders and
       driving record, to include dependents, via certified mail.
    2.4.6. Whenever multiple suspensions or revocations are imposed, they will be executed
    concurrently.
    2.4.7. Military personnel will be notified in-person or by certified mail when a family
    member’s on-base driving privileges are suspended or revoked. The military sponsor(s)
    will be responsible for enforcing the suspension or revocation, and for returning an
DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013                                                                 5


     endorsed copy to 436 SFS/S5R. In the event it is not returned, the certified mail receipt
     will serve as proof of receipt.
     2.4.8. Base driving privileges may be suspended/revoked for any serious moving
     violation and/or for anyone who continually violates parking standards, or habitually
     violates other standards considered non-moving in nature. A non-moving violation is
     defined as a violation that does not apply to the physical operation of a motor vehicle
     (e.g. parking violations, failure to maintain current registration, defective vehicle
     equipment, failure to wear seatbelt). Suspension durations are outlined in Table 5.1 of
     AFI 31-218(I) and Table 2 of this instruction.
     2.4.9. Suspension of GMV Driving Privileges. Upon full reinstatement of on-base
     driving privileges for POV, full GMV driving privileges will be restored (including re-
     issue of AF Form 2293, U.S. Air Force Motor Vehicle Operator Identification Card)
     unless specifically withheld by competent authority, i.e., individual’s commander or
     group commander. Only the 436 MSG/CD or higher authority may reinstate privileges
     prior to the end of the suspension/ revocation period.
        2.4.9.1. IAW AFI 24-301, para 8.13.1, Security Forces will notify the Operator
        Record and License (ORL) office when individuals have their driving privileges
        suspended or revoked. No reinstatement notification will be made IAW para 2.11 of
        this instruction.
     2.4.10. Revocations issued at other DoD installations will remain intact during TDY,
     PCS or other temporary or permanent relocations to Dover AFB. Newly assigned
     personnel with an active revocation are required to advise his or her squadron
     commander and 436 SFS/S5R at 677-6082 within 24 hours of arrival for inclusion on the
     SRBW (suspension, revocation, barred and warrant) roster. If the suspension is for other
     than an intoxicated driving incident or points accumulation, driving suspensions from
     other installations will be staffed to the 436 MSG/CD on a case-by-case basis to
     determine if the suspension will be continued on Dover AFB. Personnel arriving with an
     active suspension must also make notifications to his/her commander and 436 SFS within
     24 hours of arrival.
        2.4.10.1. All preliminary driving suspensions for offenses in para 2.4.1 will
        automatically become revocations, without further notice to the violator, upon the
        finding of guilt or any other finding not equivalent to a dismissal or acquittal.
     2.4.11. All suspensions and revocations will be entered into the SFMIS SRBW Roster as
     soon as the signed letter is received from the 436 MSG/CC or CD.
     2.4.12. Any person receiving a suspension or revocation has the right to an appeal or
     request reconsideration. Such requests must be forwarded through the 436 SFS/CC to the
     436 MSG/CC or CD within 14 days from the date the individual is notified of the
     suspension or revocation resulting from the administrative hearing. If already imposed or
     for DUIs or refusal of Implied Consent, the suspension or revocation will remain in effect
     pending final ruling on the request. Otherwise, the suspension or revocation will not be
     imposed until such time as directed by AFI 31-218(I), para 2-6b.
6                                                           DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013


    2.5. Remedial driver training programs:
       2.5.1. Unit commanders may consider requiring a suspended or revoked driver complete
       the 436 AW/SE driver improvement course prior to reinstatement of driving privileges.
       2.5.2. If a commander makes the driver improvement course a condition of
       reinstatement, it is recommended 436 SFS/S5R be advised to insure compliance prior to
       reinstatement. Proof of course completion will be a copy of the course certificate.
    2.6. Administrative due process for suspensions and revocations:
       2.6.1. All requests for a hearing must be made within three days of receiving written
       notification. If requested, a hearing will be held within 14 calendar days from the time
       the suspension or revocation is imposed. If, due to action by the designated authority, a
       hearing is not held within 14 calendar days, the suspension/revocation action will not take
       place until such time as the person is granted a hearing and is notified of the action of the
       designated authority.
       2.6.2. If the offender requests the hearing be continued to a date beyond the 14-day
       period, the suspension or revocation will become effective immediately on receipt of
       notification that the request for a continuance was granted.
       2.6.3. This does not apply to preliminary suspensions/revocations identified in 2.4.1.1
       through 2.4.1.3. In these cases, the suspension takes place immediately upon receipt of
       the preliminary suspension letter.
       2.6.4. Requests for a hearing will be submitted to the 436 SFS/S5R and forwarded to the
       436 MSG/CC or CD with all supporting documents.
           2.6.4.1. The scope of the hearing for intoxicated driving incidents is limited
           exclusively to determine if the subject will be permitted limited driving privileges on
           Dover AFB and if the action is taken without prejudice.
    2.7. A copy of all incident reports involving military and DoD civilian subjects will be
    forwarded to the Alcohol/Drug Abuse Prevention Treatment Program (ADAPT).
       2.7.1. Respective unit commanders will refer all military personnel apprehended for DUI
       (on or off-base) or any alcohol or drug-related driving offense to the Substance Abuse
       Office (436 MDOS/SGOH) for an alcohol assessment, treatment and/or rehabilitation. If
       treatment is deemed necessary, driving privileges will not be reinstated unless the
       prescribed treatment program is successfully completed. A letter signed by the
       individual’s unit commander or Substance Abuse Office prior to reinstatement.
       2.7.2. The ADAPT Program Manager will notify Security Forces whenever competent
       medical authority has recommended an individual be medically disqualified from driving,
       or has been identified as a problem drinker or drug abuser to the extent which renders
       him or her incapable of safely operating a motor vehicle. The 436 MSG/CC or CD will
       consider these individuals for suspension or revocation on a case-by-case basis. If an
       immediate suspension is deemed necessary, a preliminary suspension letter will be issued
       IAW para 2.4.1 of this instruction.
DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013                                                                    7


  2.8. Restoration of driving privileges upon acquittal of intoxicated driving:
     2.8.1. Reinstatement of driving privileges will be automatic once 436 SFS/S5R receives
     proof the charges were dismissed or the offender was acquitted. It is the suspended
     driver’s responsibility to obtain and supply proof.
     2.8.2. All other judicial or administrative actions not resulting in an acquittal or
     dismissal, including entry into Delaware's First Term Offender's Program, an equivalent
     program in another state, or plea agreement, etc., will not result in restoration of driving
     privileges.
  2.9. Restricted driving privileges or probation:
     2.9.1. All requests to modify or vacate driving suspensions or revocations will be
     submitted to the 436 MSG/CD through the 436 SFS/S5R and must be endorsed by the
     suspended/revoked subject’s squadron commander.          Letters received without
     commander’s endorsements will be returned to the unit of origin and will not be
     processed.
     2.9.2. Requests must contain specific reasons for the request as outlined in AFI 31-
     218(I), para d (e.g., mission requirements, unusual personal or family hardships), and
     specific details of the requested driving restriction (e.g., to and from work, to and from
     the hospital). Additionally, the requester’s squadron commander must endorse the letter
     recommending approval.
         2.9.2.1. When an individual is authorized restricted or limited driving privileges
         (POV or GMV), the individual will keep a copy of the limitation letter with him or
         her or in the vehicle while operating it. This letter must be produced upon request by
         Security Forces personnel, 436 AW/SE, Airfield Operations and/or members of the
         individual’s chain of command.
         2.9.2.2. Persons found to be in violation of restricted driving privileges are subject to
         revocation action. For good cause, the 436 MSG/CC or CD may withdraw the
         restricted privilege and continue the suspension or revocation period.
  2.10. Extensions of suspensions and revocations:
     2.10.1. All extensions of suspensions or revocations will be served concurrently with the
     original suspension or revocation. However, the following actions will be taken for
     personnel found to be driving while suspended or revoked.
         2.10.1.1. If the violator’s state driver’s license is suspended or revoked, the violator
         will be cited via DD Form 1408 or CVB Form 1805 as appropriate. The violator will
         also be subject to a two-year revocation of base driving privileges regardless of
         military affiliation.
         2.10.1.2. If the violator is found to be driving and is on the Suspension Revocation
         Barment and Warrant Roster, the violator will be subject to administrative or judicial
         action in addition to an extension of suspension or revocation period. Military
         members on active duty will be apprehended for violating Article 92, UCMJ, Failure
         to Obey Order or Regulation. All other violators will be issued a CVB Form 1805 for
         Driving while Suspended or Revoked (if appropriate) and could be subject to a one-
 8                                                          DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013


            year barment action for refusing to comply with the original suspension/revocation
            order.
     2.11. Reinstatement of driving privileges. Restoration of base driving privileges is
     automatic once the suspension or revocation time period has lapsed provided the individual’s
     state driver’s license is valid.
3. Motor Vehicle Supervision
     3.1. Go-carts, mini-bikes, dirt bikes, stock cars, ATVs, gators, mules, golf carts, and
     segways, etc. will not be operated on the base or in family housing. These vehicles may only
     be towed or hauled on base. Scooters may be operated on base provided they meet state and
     base registration requirements. Exception: This prohibition does not apply to Government
     Motor Vehicles/Government equipment of these types or golf carts used during special base
     sponsored events.
     3.2. State Driver’s License and State Vehicle Registration:
        3.2.1. Registration plates will be properly displayed and secured in a horizontal position
        to the vehicle to which it is issued and will be maintained in a manner to be clearly seen.
        3.2.2. Personnel with an expired vehicle registration will be cited. Personnel operating a
        vehicle with a suspended, canceled or revoked registration will be cited, the vehicle
        towed and the vehicle operator’s base driving privileges may be revoked for one year.
     3.3. Unlawful Use of Driver's License or USAF/State Registration.
        3.3.1. It is unlawful for any person to:
            3.3.1.1. Display, permit to be displayed, or have in their possession any canceled,
            revoked, suspended, fictitious, or fraudulently altered vehicle registration, driver's
            license, base decal, visitor/vehicle pass, badge, temporary permit, and/or state license
            plate.
            3.3.1.2. Lend their vehicle registration, driver's license, base decal, visitor/vehicle
            pass, badge, temporary permit, and/or state license plate to any individual, or
            knowingly permit the use by another.
            3.3.1.3. Display or use a permanent vehicle registration, driver's license, base decal,
            visitor/vehicle pass, badge, temporary permit, and/or state license plate not issued to
            them.
4. Traffic Supervision.
     4.1. Hand-Held Electronic Devices.
        4.1.1. DoDI 6055.4 contains rules regarding use of hand-held electronic devices while
        operating motor vehicles.
            4.1.1.1. Exception: Government owned/contracted cell phones with a walkie-talkie
            function may be used in the walkie-talkie mode without a hands free device.
            4.1.1.2. A hands-free device is defined as any device that has both a speaker and a
            microphone to allow cell phone users to use their cell phone while driving, requiring
            the use of hands to operate the device.
DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013                                                                   9


     4.1.2. For a first offense the following applies. Military violators will continue to
     receive a DD Form 1408 and be assessed three points for any of these violations.
     However, civilian violators will be issued a CVB Form 1805 with a collateral forfeiture
     of $25 plus the $25 administrative fee. Civilian violators will also be assessed three
     traffic points. Any subsequent electronic device violation in one year will result in the
     same actions above, as well as a six-month suspension of driving privileges.
     4.1.3. Laptop computers will not be used by vehicle operators in GMVs while the
     vehicle is in motion as laptop use can be a distraction, and screen glare can obstruct the
     driver’s field of vision. Exception: GMV’s in official performance of duties (law
     enforcement, maintenance, EOD, etc).
  4.2. Whenever a vehicle is impounded or towed on Dover AFB, an inventory of the vehicle
  and its contents will be conducted with all items documented via DD Form 2506, Vehicle
  Impoundment Report. Procedures for towing, searching, impounding of vehicles are outlined
  in AFI 31-101, DOVERAFBSUP and AFI 31-206.
  4.3. All military personnel who operate a motorcycle (on-off duty, on-off a DoD installation)
  are required to attend, or to have attended, an approved motorcycle rider safety course. This
  course must be attended before permanent registration can be obtained. Additionally,
  military members are required to register their motorcycles with Pass and Registration within
  30 days of acquiring the motorcycle. Re-registration is required every three years.
  Bargaining unit employees will follow guidance established in the collective bargaining
  agreement. They are, however, encouraged to complete the Motorcycle Rider Safety course.
     4.3.1. Operators and passengers of motorcycles will wear long sleeve shirts, long pants,
     over-the-ankle sturdy footwear, and full fingered gloves or mittens. Sandals, shower
     clogs, and flip-flops are not considered protective footwear.
     4.3.2. Operators and passengers will wear a helmet, which meets or exceeds Department
     of Transportation specifications, and a face shield, goggles, or shatterproof glasses.
     Safety glasses may be worn in lieu of impact resistant goggles or a full-face shield if they
     are equipped with straps to keep them firmly on the face. Tinted face shields or
     sunglasses will not be worn after the hours of darkness. Helmets will have the chinstrap
     fastened at all times during operation of the cycle. Exception: Goggles, safety glasses, or
     a full face shield are not required for the operator if the motorcycle is equipped with a
     windshield equal in height to or above the top of the helmet of the properly upright-
     seated operator.
     4.3.3. A brightly colored outer upper garment must be worn at all times when operating a
     motorcycle. Approved colors are as follows: bright lime-yellow, bright red-orange or
     bright red. The outer upper garment must be a vest, a jacket, a long sleeved shirt, a short
     sleeved shirt, or coveralls. Tank tops, half tops, halter tops, or bathing suits are not
     authorized. A long sleeved shirt or jacket must also be worn if the brightly colored outer
     upper garment is short sleeved or sleeveless. The brightly colored outer upper garment
     must also be reflective when worn between dusk and dawn (night). During these hours, a
     reflective belt, worn across the upper torso from shoulder to waist, may be worn instead
     of reflective material on the brightly colored outer upper garment. The reflective belt
     does not replace the requirement to wear the brightly colored outer upper garment. These
10                                                       DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013


     requirements apply to members while operating a motorcycle on base, and also apply to
     active duty military members operating a motorcycle off base.
     4.3.4. Civilian employees who are members of the collective bargaining unit may wear
     motorcycle gloves that are not full fingered or mittens. They are authorized to wear
     sturdy footwear that is not over the ankle. They are also authorized to wear a brightly
     colored or contrasting outer garment during the day and reflective during the night. The
     outer upper garment may be short sleeved. Other than the exceptions previously listed,
     bargaining unit employees must follow all other personal protective requirements.
     4.3.5. All motorcycles and mopeds will meet the criteria for inspection and registration
     before operating within the confines of Dover AFB. Each operator must possess, at the
     time of operation, a current state authorized motorcycle driver’s license, proof of
     ownership, proof of current insurance coverage, and proof of completion of a rider skill-
     training course that meets the requirements of the Motorcycle Safety Foundation.
     4.3.6. Moped operators will observe all laws applicable to other motor vehicles, with the
     exception that the maximum speed for mopeds is 25 mph. Only operators may ride
     mopeds--no passengers.
         4.3.6.1. All mopeds are required to be equipped with operational headlights,
         taillights, and a horn.
  4.4. Operation of a motor vehicle shall be in accordance with the motor vehicle laws of the
  State of Delaware and Federal Code unless otherwise noted in this instruction.
     4.4.1. All references to any law enforcement officer within the Delaware Code shall
     apply to Security Forces or personnel assigned to 436 SFS performing police duties.
     4.4.2. Violations of this code are punishable under the Uniform Code of Military Justice,
     Article 92, Failure to Obey Order or Regulation; and Title 18, United States Code (USC),
     Section 13; and may result in suspension or revocation of installation driving privileges
     IAW AFI 31-218(I), Table 5.1 and Table 2 of this Instruction.
  4.5. Traffic Law Obedience:
     4.5.1. No person shall willfully refuse to comply with any lawful order or directive of
     anyone who has the authority to direct, control, or regulate traffic (e.g., Security Force
     patrolman in the performance of official duties, others as defined in para 4.4.1).
     4.5.2. The operator of any vehicle or bicycle will obey all traffic control devices unless
     otherwise directed by a Security Forces patrolman in the performance of official duties.
     4.5.3. Drivers of authorized emergency vehicles, while responding to an emergency may:
         4.5.3.1. Park or stand irrespective to the provisions of this instruction, providing the
         vehicle is parked or standing as a result of emergency response and it does not create
         a safety hazard.
         4.5.3.2. Proceed past a red or stop signal, but only after assuring the intersection is
         free of traffic and there is no danger to life or property.
         4.5.3.3. Disregard instructions governing direction of movement or turning in a
         specified direction if other traffic is not endangered.
DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013                                                                   11


         4.5.3.4. Note: The exemptions granted to authorized emergency vehicles shall apply
         only when the operator of the vehicle, while in motion, displays at least one red or
         blue lighted lamp, multicolor or appropriate light bars. The provisions of this section
         shall not relieve the operator of the emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with
         regard for the safety of all nor shall it protect the operator from the consequences of
         their reckless disregard for the safety of others. Emergency vehicles will not
         disregard any traffic control device when responding to exercise situations.
  4.6. Off-road vehicles usage: Privately owned off-road vehicles (ORV) are only authorized
  to be operated on the installation streets if they are licensed and registered to drive on state
  roads. All other ORV operations are prohibited. Government ORVs are excluded from this
  prohibition.
  4.7. Traffic Enforcement:
     4.7.1. Security Forces have the primary responsibility for enforcing traffic laws on Dover
     AFB. Violators will be cited as follows:
         4.7.1.1. All civilians operating POVs, to include dependents, DoD and NAF
         employees, will be issued a CVB Form 1805, in exclusive federal jurisdiction areas.
         Within areas of proprietary interest, and for base violations not considered a violation
         of state or federal law, violators will be cited via DD Form 1408.
         4.7.1.2. Civilians, who are operating a GMV at the time of the violation, will be
         issued a DD Form 1408, regardless of the jurisdiction in the area of the offense.
         4.7.1.3. Active duty personnel will be issued DD Form 1408.
         4.7.1.4. Reserve military personnel will be issued a DD Form 1408 while in status or
         on active duty orders. A CVB Form 1805 will be issued at all other times.
         4.7.1.5. Juveniles who commit traffic infractions will only be cited on DD Forms
         1408. Criminal offenses will be documented on Security Forces Information
         Management System (SFMIS).
             4.7.1.5.1. The citing patrolperson will contact the juvenile’s sponsor and advise
             them of the issuance of a citation.
  4.8. Dover AFB Rules of the Road:
     4.8.1. Vehicles approaching school buses stopped for the purpose of receiving or
     discharging passengers, will stop before reaching the bus and will not proceed until the
     bus resumes motion. Violators may have their driving privileges suspended for 90 days.
     4.8.2. The driver of a GMV will not back a vehicle without a spotter unless the
     movement can be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
     Drivers of GMVs of one-ton capacity or more will use a spotter at all times when
     backing.
     4.8.3. No person will be transported in or on a vehicle while in a standing position,
     except vehicles configured for this operation where handholds are provided. No person
     will be transported in the cargo compartment of a vehicle. Exception: Squadron
     commanders may waive this requirement if mission or contingency requirements
     necessitate that personnel must ride in the cargo area. A written letter must be submitted
12                                                       DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013


     to 436th Airlift Wing Safety Office (436 AW/SE) stating the reason behind the decision
     and specify controls that will be used to protect passengers after utilizing the Operational
     Risk Management Process, and conform with AFI 91-207, DOVERSUP, The U.S. Air
     Force Traffic Safety Program.
     4.8.4. Driving over unpaved areas is prohibited except when it is absolutely necessary to
     avoid obstructions or when directed by Security Forces in the performance of official
     duties.
     4.8.5. Vehicle operators are responsible for the proper wear of required safety devices by
     all passengers in that vehicle. Violations of seatbelt or helmet requirements will be
     enforced as follows:
        4.8.5.1. Any vehicle attempting to enter the base while the operator or any passenger
        is not wearing the required safety device will be stopped and denied entry until the
        seatbelt or helmet is worn.
        4.8.5.2. Any vehicle operator not wearing the required safety device(s), or allowing
        personnel in their vehicle to not wear the required safety device(s), will be issued a
        citation for the first offense. A second offense within a one-year period will result in
        the operator’s base driving privilege being suspended for a period of 30 days;
        additional violations may result in revocation of base driving privileges.
     4.8.6. No person shall operate a vehicle or bicycle while wearing a Walkman or similar
     headset device.
     4.8.7. Vehicles entering the installation entry control points during the hours of darkness
     will dim their headlights prior to approaching (vehicles with day time running lights are
     exempt).
     4.8.8. When vehicle operators do not provide proof of insurance, registration or a
     driver’s license, the following applies. Violators authorized to receive a CVB Form 1805
     will be cited for violating the applicable section of Title 21, Delaware Code, and the
     vehicle will be removed from the installation until proper insurance documentation,
     driver’s license, or proof of vehicle registration is obtained.
        4.8.8.1. Whenever a civilian violator is issued a CVB Form 1805 for failing to
        provide proof of insurance or registration or fails to provide a valid driver’s license,
        the patrolman will advise the violator of the following compliance citation
        procedures:
            4.8.8.1.1. The driver may have the ticket voided if proof is provided to 436
            AW/JA showing the documents were valid at the time of the violation. This must
            be done within five days from receiving the ticket. This may be accomplished by
            contacting Magistrate Court Clerk, 436 AW/JA, at 677-3300.
            4.8.8.1.2. All voiding requirements will be conducted by 436 AW/JA.
        4.8.8.2. Violators authorized to receive a DD Form 1408 will be cited for violating
        this instruction and the vehicle will be removed from the installation until proper
        insurance documentation, driver’s license, or proof of vehicle registration is obtained.
        Note: An individual cited for failure to provide proof of insurance must provide
        proof to 436 SFS/S5R that the vehicle was insured at the time the citation was issued.
DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013                                                                13


        If the vehicle was not insured, the vehicle operator/owner may be subject to a one-
        year revocation of driving privileges.
     4.8.9. On this installation, it is unlawful for any person to have an open container of an
     alcoholic beverage in his/her possession in a motor vehicle or while astride a bicycle.
     4.8.10. Unsafe Vehicles:
        4.8.10.1. Vehicles cited as being unsafe may not be driven on the installation, but
        will be towed to a place of repair.
        4.8.10.2. Violations for unsafe vehicles may be cited via DD Form 1408 as
        Compliance Citations at the patrolman’s discretion.
        4.8.10.3. Proof of repair must be presented to the BDOC, Building 910, within 72
        hours of the issuance of the compliance citation.
        4.8.10.4. Failure to comply with this section may result in removal of the vehicle
        from the installation.
     4.8.11. Speed Limits:
        4.8.11.1. General Speed Instructions: No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any
        roadway at a speed greater than reasonable and prudent under existing conditions and
        having regard for the actual and potential hazards that may exist.
        4.8.11.2. Specific Speed Limits. The base speed limit is 25 miles per hour (mph)
        unless otherwise posted. No person shall drive a motor vehicle in excess of the
        following:
            4.8.11.2.1. 15 mph in the Industrial Maintenance Complex (IMC), base supply,
            and air terminal complexes. The IMC refers to those roads east of Atlantic Street
            and west of the ramp.
            4.8.11.2.2. 10 mph in all school zones. (When children are present)
            4.8.11.2.3. 10 mph in parking lots and on access roads.
            4.8.11.2.4. 5 mph while backing.
            4.8.11.2.5. 35 mph on all paved portions of the base perimeter road, south of
            Building #100.
            4.8.11.2.6. 10 mph when passing a formation marching on the roadway.
            4.8.11.2.7. 20 mph in the Family Housing (FH) areas.
            4.8.11.2.8. Speed limits on the airfield will be IAW Dover Air Force Base
            Instruction 13-202, Airfield Driver Training and Operating Procedures.
            4.8.11.2.9. 5 mph in FH parking lots.
            4.8.11.2.10. 30 mph on Atlantic Street.
     4.8.12. Littering from a Vehicle.
14                                                        DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013


         4.8.12.1. Littering is defined in Title 16 of the Delaware Code (Litter Control Law)
         and includes “all rubbish, waste material, refuse, cans, bottles, garbage, trash, debris,
         dead animals or other discarded materials of every kind and description.”
         4.8.12.2. Littering is prohibited on Dover AFB and in FH. Vehicles/trucks carrying
         large amounts of debris or garbage will cover the material to prevent it from being
         blown or falling out.
            4.8.12.2.1. Civilian personnel committing violations in exclusive federal
            jurisdiction areas will be cited via CVB Form 1805 for violation of Title 16 (Del
            Code) Sec 1606.
            4.8.12.2.2. Civilian personnel committing violations in proprietary jurisdiction
            will be cited via DD Form 1408. Personnel cited via DD Form 1408 will be
            assessed two points for each violation.
                4.8.12.2.2.1. In addition, personnel accumulating a total of three littering
                violations within a 90-day period may receive a 30-day driving suspension.
  4.9. Aiding and Abetting the crime of Driving Under the Influence (DUI).
     4.9.1. Any person who assists, encourages, advises, instigates, counsels, or commands
     another person to drive a motor vehicle while the operator is intoxicated, shall be guilty
     of the crime as a perpetrator, and their base driving privileges shall be revoked IAW AFI
     31-218(I) and this instruction. This includes any person in control of a motor vehicle
     (owner/user) who knowingly allows an impaired or intoxicated person to operate that
     vehicle.
  4.10. Operation of RADAR/LIDAR units:
     4.10.1. On Dover AFB, it is required that the RADAR/LIDAR operator be in a visible
     location to encourage voluntary compliance with speed limits and other traffic laws.
     4.10.2. RADAR/LIDAR units will only be used in Security Forces vehicles. When
     available, clearly marked Security Forces vehicles will be used.
     4.10.3. Parking lights will be on while running stationary RADAR/LIDAR if parked
     within five feet of the roadway.
  4.11. Accident Reporting:
     4.11.1. Any driver involved in an accident must immediately stop their vehicle, as soon
     as safely possible, and remain at the scene of the accident until they have fulfilled the
     requirements of this section.
         4.11.1.1. Duty to render competent first aid and give information: anyone involved
         in an accident will ensure first aid is rendered as necessary until appropriate medical
         attention arrives. The operators of vehicles involved will exchange their name, grade,
         organization, address, telephone number, insurance information, driver’s license
         number, and vehicle registration information.
         4.11.1.2. Accidents involving damages to unattended vehicles or other property: any
         vehicle that collides with an unattended vehicle or property will stop immediately and
DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013                                                                 15


        the driver will attempt to locate and notify the owner of the damaged vehicle or
        property and comply with the paragraph above.
            4.11.1.2.1. If unable to contact the owner, the operator will notify Security Forces
            immediately.
        4.11.1.3. Accident reporting: the operator of any vehicle involved in an accident on
        base will immediately report the accident to the Security Forces. If the operator is
        incapable of reporting the accident, attempt to have a passenger or witness report the
        accident immediately. Security Forces personnel will respond to all major accidents.
        (Definitions in attachment 2).
        4.11.1.4. Moving a vehicle from the scene of an accident: any person involved in an
        accident on-base will not move the vehicle from the scene without permission from
        Security Forces or Delaware State Police (DSP) unless safety concerns require
        immediate action.
     4.11.2. Security Forces or DSP are responsible for the investigation of all accidents
     requiring investigation. This investigation will be in accordance with Air Force and local
     directives.
     4.11.3. Special Purpose Vehicles and Vehicles Classified as Equipment (e.g. k-loader,
     forklift, mule, ATV, snowplow, etc.) If a special purpose vehicle or vehicular equipment
     item is involved in a mishap, the following applies:
        4.11.3.1. If a vehicle is performing duties for which it was designed and not being
        operated as a mode of transportation (e.g. moving cargo pallets in an industrial area,
        uploading cargo, etc.), and the vehicle strikes an object other than another motor
        vehicle, it will be considered a ground mishap and not an accident. This does not
        apply to special purpose vehicles operated as motor vehicles (e.g. HMMWV, tractor
        trailer, LMTV, Cut V, etc.).
            4.11.3.1.1. Notification should be made to the BDOC, Fire Department, and
            Safety as applicable, however a police response in not required.
            4.11.3.1.2. All subsequent notifications will be the responsibility of the vehicle
            owner/user. Additional investigation requirements will also be accomplished by
            the owner/user via a Report of Survey.
        4.11.3.2. If the special purpose vehicle is being used as a mode of transportation or
        the object struck is another vehicle (e.g. parked car, GMV, etc.), the incident will be
        considered an accident and must be reported to the BDOC.
     4.11.4. Police responses to minor accidents will be at the discretion of the on-duty
     Security Forces flight sergeant based on patrol availability.
  4.12. Reserved Parking on Dover AFB:
     4.12.1. 436 SFS will not enforce reserved or unauthorized parking with the exception of
     handicapped parking, unless approved by the on-duty Flight Sergeant or higher authority.
     AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 7 authorizes the use of parking wardens, designated by unit
     commanders, to enforce unit owned or housing reserved parking areas, or other parking
     violations within their area of responsibility. A DD Form 1408 over-stamped with
 16                                                         DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013


       “Parking Warden Ticket” will be utilized to cite parking violations. Completed tickets
       will be forwarded to 436 SFS/S5R. Whenever the same vehicle or operator has received
       three citations for violating standing, parking, or any other non-moving vehicle
       instructions within a 90 day period, or an individual is found to have parked in a
       handicapped slot without being authorized, the driving privileges of the vehicle owner or
       operator may be suspended for 30 days. Multiple non-moving citations issued at the
       same time will count as one violation for the purpose of the 30-day driving suspension.
       The violator has 14 calendar days duty days, to rebut the suspension of driving privileges.
       The suspension for reserve personnel is 30 days including weekends and holidays.
          4.12.1.1. Each unit will be responsible for enforcing parking violations in areas under
          their control. The unit commander will designate a parking warden using the web-
          based Appointment Letter Management Tool. The respective warden will contact
          436 SFS/S5R for training prior to issuing citations. Under no circumstance will
          parking wardens attempt to enforce any traffic laws other than parking violations. A
          parking warden's authority is strictly limited to the parking areas for which the unit is
          responsible. Parking wardens will contact the BDOC at 677-6664 for assistance
          should any problems or complaints arise due to parking enforcement activities.
       4.12.2. Erection of reserved parking signs is not automatic; it is the responsibility of each
       squadron, group, or wing staff agency to request the signs they require. Submit requests
       on AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, by the facility manager. Submit
       requests to the 436th Civil Engineer Squadron for approval. All signs will meet
       standards set forth in Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-120-01, Air Force Sign
       Standard. Reserved parking signs are limited to those identified in Table 1 as approved
       by 436 CES.

Table 1. Authorized Reserved Parking Signs
Wing Commander                      XXX AW/CC
Vice Wing Commander                 XXX AW/CV
Command Chief                       XXX AW/CCC
Group Commanders                    XXX/CC
Deputy Group Commanders             XXX/CD
Group Superintendents               XXX/CCC
Wing/Group Executive Officers       XXX/CCE
Inspector General                   XXX/IG
Wing Staff Elements                 XXX/CCS, XXX/SE, XXX/PA, XXX/XP, XXX/FM,
                                    XXX/SJA, XXX/DSJA, XXX/AT, XXX/CX, XXXCP
AF Legal Services Agency            AFLSA/ADC
Squadron Commanders                 XXX/CC
Squadron Chief                      XXX/CEM
DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013                                                                    17


First Sergeants                       XXX/ CCF
Squadron Civilian Deputy              XXX/CD (SVS/CES only authorized civilian deputy positions)
Ten or Twenty Minute                  10/20 Minute Parking (Commissary, BX, CDC)
Honor Guard                           HONOR GUARD (Facility 205, BX, Club )
Customers                             CUSTOMER
Handicapped                           HANDICAPPED
Chaplain                              CHAPLAIN
Government Vehicle                    GMV VEHICLE
Annual/Quarterly Award Winner         ANNUAL/QTRLY WINNER (Club)
Colonel/General                       COL/GEN (Bldg 201(1), Club(1), BX (3), and Fitness Center (1)
Chief Master Sergeants                CMSGT (Bldg 201(1), Club(3), BX(3), and Fitness Center (1)
Squadron Commanders/First Sgt         SQDN CMDR/FIRST SGT (Club and BX (3)
Commissary                            Store Officer, Deputy Store Officer
Expectant/New Mothers                 EXPECTANT/NEW MOTHERS (Commissary / BX / Clinic)

            4.12.2.1. Union reserved parking signs will be in accordance with the applicable
            negotiated agreement in the union contract.
            4.12.2.2. Handicapped parking is regulated under the uniform federal accessibility
            standards.
                  4.12.2.2.1. Handicap parking placards and stickers are issued to individuals,
                  while handicapped license plates are issued to vehicles. When a vehicle parks in
                  a reserved handicapped parking spot, one of these forms of identification must be
                  displayed in plain view. If displaying a placard or sticker while parking in a
                  reserved handicapped spot, the individual to whom the placard or sticker was
                  issued must be present.
       4.12.3. Security Forces and fire department units performing official duties may park in
       any reserved parking areas, with the exception of handicapped spaces, during emergency
       responses or weapon and funds escorts.
       4.12.4. Parking is only authorized in clearly identified paved or graveled areas marked
       by paint, pipes, barriers, or signs. Parking in unpaved areas is not authorized, except
       during special events or as directed by the 436 MSG/CC or CD or Security Forces.
            4.12.4.1. Parking in an area not specifically designated as a parking space (white
            line, sign, curb marking, etc.) will be considered a parking violation.
            4.12.4.2. Personnel assigned quarters in base housing may store their boats, trailers,
            campers, and recreational vehicles in the RV storage lot located on the south end of
            the base, adjacent to FAM Camp. Applications for storage on main base are handled
            through 436th Force Support Squadron/SVRO, 677-3959.
18                                                      DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013


     4.12.5. No person will stop, stand, or park a vehicle (except when necessary to avoid a
     conflict with other traffic or when in compliance with the direction of a traffic control
     device) on any lawn, seeded area, maintained field, playground, or other area not used for
     motor vehicle traffic.
     4.12.6. Family Housing Parking:
        4.12.6.1. The driveways to each individual’s quarters will be considered their
        assigned parking space.
        4.12.6.2. Parking along the road is for visitors. However, people who have more
        than one POV may park along the road. Oversized recreational vehicles or converted
        buses will not park alongside the roadway or in the confines of the roadway. These
        vehicles will be parked in the areas discussed in paragraph 4.12.4. Exception:
        Oversized recreational vehicles or converted buses departing/returning from trips may
        park alongside the roadway for no longer than 24 hours.
        4.12.6.3. Any individual who operates an oversized recreational vehicle or converted
        bus as their primary means of transportation must request permission through the
        Family Housing Office to park their vehicle in base housing.
        4.12.6.4. Any housing resident cited three times for illegally parking in the housing
        area in a one year period may have their privilege to reside in military housing
        reviewed. The 436 MSG/CC or CD will be the final authority in this matter.
        4.12.6.5. Moving trucks will not park on lawns in base housing.
     4.12.7. DD Forms 1408 will be used to cite all parking violations with one exception.
     Enforcement officers authorized to issue CVB Forms 1805 may cite civilian violators
     using this form provided the officer has personal contact with the vehicle operator and
     personally observed the violation at the time the citation is issued.
  4.13. Unattended Motor Vehicles.
     4.13.1. No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to be parked
     unattended without first placing it in park, stopping the engine and removing the key.
     4.13.2. Vehicles will not be parked on base for more than 72-hours except as specified
     below. In all cases where a vehicle is to be lawfully parked more that 72-hours, the
     vehicle owner will comply with the following. A placard will be placed on the dashboard
     or in plain sight indicating the name and phone number of the vehicle owner (military
     include squadron and 1st Sgt name), name and phone number of person in the local area
     who has a key if the vehicle must be moved and inclusive dates the vehicle will be
     parked. See attachment 2 for an example of the placard. The vehicle must be insured
     and must maintain current registration for the duration of the parking time period.
     Failure to comply with these requirements may result in the vehicle being towed and
     impounded at the owner’s expense.
        4.13.2.1. Vehicles may be parked in specifically designated short or long term
        parking lots, provided they comply with owner/user requirements and posted signs.
        4.13.2.2. Dormitory residents may park vehicles in dormitory parking lots or at
        respective squadrons, provided space is available.
DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013                                                                  19


         4.13.2.3. All other vehicles parked in base parking lots longer than 72-hours must
         first obtain the permission of the responsible building custodian or commander.
  4.14. Refer to Dover AFB Instruction 40-303, Child Supervision, on matters pertaining to
  unattended children in vehicles.
  4.15. Processing Traffic Citations.
     4.15.1. All DD Forms 1408 will be annotated by the patrolperson with instructions for
     violators to report to 436 SFS/S5R at Building 910, Room 121 within five duty days to
     rebut a citation. After five days from the date of issue, rebuttals will not be considered.
     4.15.2. If a member desires to rebut a DD Form 1408, the violator must report to 436
     SFS/S5R in the time allowed and elect rebuttal. S5R personnel will provide the violator
     rebuttal instructions. The violator will then have 14 calendar days from receipt of the
     ticket to submit a letter articulating why the ticket should not have been issued. Since the
     436 MSG/CD is the designated rebuttal authority, all requests for rebuttal consideration
     must have the squadron commander’s endorsement and comments supporting the
     violator’s guilt or innocence. If the request is not submitted within the required 14 days
     or does not contain the commander’s endorsement and comments, the request will not be
     processed and appropriate traffic points will be assessed.
     4.15.3. All rebuttal requests will be conducted with the 436 MSG/CD via email. The
     email message will include a copy of the ticket, the violator’s rebuttal letter with
     endorsement, and a statement from the issuing police officer. The email message will be
     forwarded through the DFC for annotation or recommendation before being sent to the
     436 MSG/CD.
     4.15.4. The 436 MSG/CD will notify 436 SFS/S5R of his/her decision, which will be
     considered the final decision. S5R will notify the violator of the decision in writing via
     email and will courtesy copy the squadron commander/first sergeant.
         4.15.4.1. If the ticket is deemed valid by the rebuttal authority, the violation will be
         entered into SFMIS and traffic points will be assessed.
         4.15.4.2. If the ticket is deemed invalid, the ticket will be considered void.
     4.15.5. Contact information for CVB Forms 1805:
         4.15.5.1. The physical address for U.S. District Court is 844 N. King Street,
         Wilmington, DE 19801-3570. The court clerk may be reached at (302) 573-6170.
         This address should be filled in Box 34 of the CVB Form 1805 (see AFMAN 31-201,
         Vol. 3, page 136).
         4.15.5.2. The address on the envelope portion of the CVB Form 1805 is also where
         all payments should be mailed. That address is: Central Violations Bureau, P.O. Box
         70939, Charlotte, NC 28272-0939. Fines may also be paid at
         http://www.cvb.uscourts.gov/.
         4.15.5.3. General correspondence, requests for information and questions should be
         directed to: Central Violations Bureau, P.O. Box 780549, San Antonio, TX 78278-
         0549. The Bureau may also be reached at (800) 827-2982 or info@cvb.uscourts.gov.
     4.15.6. Rebutting a CVB Form 1805:
20                                                      DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013


        4.15.6.1. Where a disagreement exists involving an offender cited via CVB Form
        1805 and Security Forces, the US Magistrate will render the final decision.
        4.15.6.2. If a violator desires to rebut a lawfully issued CVB Form 1805, inform
        him/her the following procedures apply. The violator should check the appropriate
        box requesting a court hearing on the violator’s copy of the citation and mail to the
        address on the reverse side. The violator will be notified of a court date by mail.
        4.15.6.3. When a violator appears in court, he/she may contest a lawfully issued
        citation by entering a plea of not guilty. He/she will then be scheduled for a hearing
        before the Magistrate at which time evidence may be presented to contest the citation.
  4.16. Security Forces personnel invoking the Implied Consent provisions will record the
  appropriate information on DD Form 1920, Alcohol Influence Report or locally devised
  form. The authorized methods for conducting a chemical test to determine blood alcohol
  level shall be the intoxilyzer breath analysis instrument, blood test, or both.
     4.16.1. The blood alcohol concentration (BAC) threshold delineating impaired from
     intoxicated on Dover AFB will reflect the State of Delaware’s standard of 0.08 percent.
     4.16.2. When a person’s BAC is determined to be 0.08 percent or higher, driving
     privileges will be revoked IAW section 2.4 of this instruction and AFI 31-218(I), para 2-
     4. Exception: Persons under the age of 21 who drive, operate or have physical control of
     a vehicle who have a BAC of 0.01 percent or higher shall have their driving privileges
     revoked for one year.
     4.16.3. If the percentage is at least 0.05 but less than 0.08, presume the person is
     impaired. Consider this standard with other competent evidence (e.g. pre-exit and field
     sobriety tests performance and behavioral cues to indicate the driver was not capable of
     safely operating a vehicle at the time of police contact) in determining whether the person
     was under the influence of alcohol. Driving while impaired will result in a six-month
     driving suspension.
     4.16.4. Whenever the military magistrate authorizes the seizure of blood for testing, the
     subject will be transported to the 436th Medical Group Laboratory. Blood will be drawn
     and secured as evidence based on verbal authorization to search and seize. However, the
     blood sample will not be processed until a signed copy of the AF Form 1176 is provided
     to the Lab. Blood will not normally be drawn from civilians. Contact SJA for situational
     guidance regarding civilian blood tests.
        4.16.4.1. Lab personnel will not normally draw blood by force from a combative
        subject due to safety issues. If a subject becomes combative or physically resistant to
        provide the blood sample as ordered, advise the subject he or she will be apprehended
        for UCMJ Article 92, Failure to Obey Order or Regulation. If the subject still does
        not comply, the subject’s commander or first sergeant will respond to the Lab and
        direct the subject to submit.
        4.16.4.2. The subject’s first sergeant will pick up a copy of the blood test results
        within 24 hours of being notified it is ready by Lab personnel. The first sergeant will
        immediately provide a copy of the results to 436 SFS/S5R for inclusion in the case
        file.
DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013                                                                  21


   4.17. Commercial Vehicles
       4.17.1. Title 21, Delaware Code, Section 2613 prohibits any person from operating or
       being in physical control of a commercial motor vehicle with “any measurable amount of
       alcohol in the person’s system.”
       4.17.2. Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, Section 392.5(a)(3) further stipulates that
       commercial vehicle operators who possess alcoholic beverages or has a measurable
       amount of alcohol in his/her system must also be placed out of service for 24 hours.
       4.17.3. If the commercial vehicle operator is placed out of service, the vehicle will be
       removed from the installation. If the vehicle cannot be removed by the owner/operator’s
       company or designated authorized operator, it will be towed at the owner/operator’s
       expense.
   4.18. Off-Installation Traffic Activities: Local police agencies will be provided a list of
   personnel who are authorized to receive copies of reports. Information is released upon fax
   request or walk-in request depending on the agency. Security Forces will forward
   information to local police agencies upon fax or walk-in request after verifying authenticity.
   4.19. Personnel will not operate a vehicle when the sound system can be heard outside the
   vehicle at greater than 50 feet except as required for official duties.
   4.20. Emergency vehicles responding to actual emergencies will not exceed 10 MPH over
   the posted speed limit and must take existing road conditions into consideration. All speed
   and traffic laws will be obeyed by emergency vehicles responding to exercises.
5. Driving Record and the Traffic Point System
   5.1. Driving Records: All suspensions and revocations will be IAW AFI 31-218(I), Table
   5.1 and Table 2 of this instruction. Specific incidents deemed appropriate for suspension or
   revocation but not listed in Table 2 may be considered on a case-by-case basis. Suspensions
   and revocations apply to active duty, reserve, civil service, dependents, retirees, and non-
   military affiliated civilians.

Table 2. Suspension/Revocation of Driving Privileges.
NOTE: The following suspensions and revocations apply exclusively to Dover Air Force Base.

Assessment 1: 6-month suspension to a 1-year revocation.

Violation: Any incident deemed “serious” by the installation commander or designee, to include
the preservation of good order and discipline.

Assessment 2: 1-year revocation is appropriate for the following offenses.

Violations:

-Failure to comply with base entry/exit point checks
 22                                                          DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013


-Failure or refusal to meet towing costs obligations.

-Driving an uninsured vehicle.

-Driving a vehicle with suspended or canceled registration.

-Persons under the age of 21 who drive/operate or have physical control of a vehicle who have a
blood alcohol concentration of or exceeding 0.01 percent.

Assessment 3: 6-month suspension is appropriate for the following offenses.

Violation:

-Accumulation of 12 traffic points in 12 months or 18 points in 24 months.

-Second or subsequent electronic device violations (para 4.1) within one year.

-Speeding 20 MPH over the posted speed limit or higher.

-Operating a motor vehicle with a BAC above 0.05 but less than 0.08%.

-Permitting the unlawful or fraudulent use of a driver’s license.

Assessment 4: 90-day suspension is appropriate for the following offenses.

Violation: Failure to stop for school bus discharging or receiving passengers.

Assessment 5: A 30 day suspension is appropriate for the following offenses.

Violation:

-Illegally parking in a reserved handicapped parking space.

-Three non-moving violations in 90 days.

-Two seat belt violations within a 1-year period.

-Three littering violations within 90 days.

-First cell phone or electronic device violation policy in para 4.1.

-Unit commander suspensions for traffic/vehicle safety violations IAW para. 2.4.4.

6. Impounding and Towing Privately Owned Vehicles
   6.1. If required, a contract will be established with local wrecker companies to provide
   towing and impoundment services on Dover AFB.
DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013                                                              23


  6.2. When utilizing contracted impoundment lots, the 436 SFS/CC will ensure lots are
  reasonably secure and certified by 436 SFS/S2I.
  6.3. Towing Vehicles.
     6.3.1. On Dover AFB, vehicles may be towed for all reasons identified in AFI 31-218,
     para 6-3c, as well as the following:
         6.3.1.1. Vehicles suspected of being abandoned will be reported to 436 SFS/S2I for
         disposition. S2I will arrange for towing and disposition of these vehicles.
         6.3.1.2. Due to liability issues, Security Forces personnel will not operate POVs
         involved in the below listed offenses. The 436 SFS may have vehicles towed from
         street or parking lots without prior driver/owner notification for the following
         reasons:
         6.3.1.3. Illegally parked.
            6.3.1.3.1. Illegally parked in a reserved parking spot (e.g. handicap, commander,
            etc.) when the vehicle is not properly marked and an owner cannot reasonably be
            located.
         6.3.1.4. The vehicle interferes with or is involved in one of the following:
            6.3.1.4.1. Vehicles of drivers detained/apprehended for DUI will be towed and
            held for 24 hours at the owner’s expense.
            6.3.1.4.2. For lawful reasons at the discretion of law enforcement personnel as
            approved by an on duty flight sergeant or higher authority.
         6.3.1.5. To prevent injury.
         6.3.1.6. When a driver is operating an uninsured motor vehicle. No one will drive
         the vehicle any further. An uninsured POV will not be operated on-base under any
         circumstances.
     6.3.2. Vehicle owners will be responsible for all towing and storage costs.
     6.3.3. Owner-Operator Towing: Vehicles must be towed using a rigid A-frame, I-beam,
     or commercially designed towing strap. (I-beam and towing straps require an operator in
     the towed vehicle). From dusk until dawn, rear lights and turn signals on the towed
     vehicle will be used. All other methods of towing are prohibited.
  6.4. Unattended POVs: If a vehicle is suspected of being abandoned, Security Forces will
  take the following actions:
     6.4.1. Vehicles will be cited via DD Form 1408 and a copy of a DD Form 2504,
     Abandoned Vehicle Notice will be attached.
     6.4.2. If the vehicle is not moved within 72 hours after issuance of DD Form 2504, or is
     unclaimed while in possession of the Air Force for 60 days, the vehicle will be towed.
     S2I will then contact the towing contractor and request they tow the vehicle, provide
     storage, and security at the registered owner’s expense.
 24                                                        DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013


       6.4.3. A vehicle is considered abandoned 60 days after making reasonable good faith
       efforts to contact the owner or when the owner is contacted and fails to take appropriate
       steps to assume responsibility for the vehicle.
          6.4.3.1. Vehicles that do not have proper registration and mounted plates will be
          considered abandoned and may be towed at the owner's expense.
          6.4.3.2. Any vehicle deemed inoperative, parked with flat tires, broken windows, or
          extensive physical damage will be considered abandoned.
7. Troop Movements.
   7.1. Troop movements or formations will use the extreme right side of the roadway.
   7.2. Road guards (wearing a reflective vest/belt or carrying a traffic wand) will be utilized
   while crossing all intersections.
   7.3. During periods of reduced visibility, the troop commander will designate additional
   personnel to wear a reflective vest/belt or carry a traffic wand.
   7.4. There will be a minimum of four (4) personnel with safety devices within the formation.
   These individuals should be placed in the front and rear of the formation.
   7.5. All vehicle traffic will yield to troop formations. Passing is permitted at the discretion
   of the troop commander. Vehicles passing troop movements will not exceed 10 MPH.
8. Bicycles
   8.1. Everyone operating a bicycle on a roadway will be granted all the rights of a motor
   vehicle and will be subject to the duties and instructions applicable to operators of motor
   vehicles. Additionally, all bicycle operators are required to abide by all traffic laws the same
   as vehicle operators. Noncompliance may result in a citation being issued by Security Forces
   and traffic points may be assessed.
   8.2. It is prohibited for bicycle riders to ride while wearing a Walkman, similar headset
   device, or ear plugs because they may interfere with the operator’s ability to hear. All
   bicycle operators and passengers must wear an approved bicycle helmet IAW AFI 91-207,
   The U.S. Air Force Traffic Safety Program, paragraph 20. As a minimum, helmets must
   meet or exceed safety standards established by the American National Standards Institute, the
   Snell Memorial Foundation or the American Society of Testing and Measurement for
   Protective Headgear.
   8.3. Bicycles used during the hours of darkness will be equipped with a headlamp visible
   from a distance of 500 feet, a rear red reflector, and side reflector visible from a distance of
   600 feet. Holding a flashlight or similar device is unacceptable. Bicycles will be equipped
   with a bell, horn or other audible device that can be heard at a distance of at least 100 feet.
   Operators should wear lightly colored clothing.
   8.4. No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article which prevents
   the rider from keeping one hand on the handlebars at all times.
   8.5. Bicycles will not carry more persons than the bicycle was designed to carry. At no time
   will a passenger be permitted to ride on the handlebars.
DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013                                                                     25


   8.6. Bicycles will be operated in single file to the extreme right of the roadway and in the
   same direction of travel as motor vehicles.
9. Traffic Signs and Markings
   9.1. Vehicle operators shall obey all traffic control devices unless otherwise directed by
   Security Forces or other individuals acting in traffic control capacity.
   9.2. Notify the base civil engineer service desk if existing traffic control devices need repair.
   Recommended changes to existing devices should be forwarded to the 436 CES for action,
   with coordination through 436 AW/SE.
   9.3. Military workers and contractors must comply with the Uniform Code of Traffic
   Control Devices when changing traffic patterns (e.g. closing off roadways, lanes, etc.).
10. Pedestrian Traffic
   10.1. Safety Requirements:
   10.2. Pedestrians must use sidewalks where provided. Pedestrians walking alongside the
   roadway will walk in single file facing on-coming traffic.
   10.3. Vehicle operators will yield the right-of-way to pedestrians in crosswalks. However,
   pedestrians who have not yet entered the crosswalk will yield the right-of-way to vehicle
   traffic and ensure vehicle traffic is clear before stepping from the curb.
   10.4. Jogging, running, or walking on the street or shoulder will be done facing traffic on the
   outside edge of the opposing traffic lanes or shoulders of the road. If running in formation,
   Section 7, Troop Movements, applies. Runners not running in formation will run in single
   file, facing against the flow of traffic when vehicle traffic is present. This will contribute to
   runner safety and not impede the flow of traffic. During the hours of darkness, joggers will
   wear light colored clothing. Exception: This does not apply to areas along roadways clearly
   marked for pedestrians/runners.
   10.5. It is prohibited for pedestrians to walk or jog on any roadway while wearing a
   Walkman or similar headset device that impedes hearing. Exception: A Walkman or similar
   headset device may be used as long as the ear closest to traffic does not have an ear/headset
   device obstructing hearing.
11. Skateboards, Roller-Skates, Roller-Blades and Other Non-Motorized Modes of
Transportation
   11.1. No skateboarding, roller-skating, or roller-blading will be allowed on any road, street,
   or thoroughfare, with the exception of the jogging path along Perimeter Road from the South
   Gate to Building 1276/1277 during daylight hours. In housing, skating is permitted at the
   Youth Center basketball court (call for restrictions), Arnold Elementary tennis court without
   net, the south parking lot when there are no cars present and the basketball court of Welch
   Elementary, jogging paths, and sidewalks in Family Housing.
   11.2. No skating in culverts, storm drains, bus stops, steps, ramps leading to entrances/exits,
   or shoppette/store areas (i.e., Commissary, Main Exchange, or banks).
   11.3. Skating on perimeter road jogging path is prohibited during the hours of darkness.
   11.4. Pedestrians have the right-of-way on sidewalks and jogging paths.
 26                                                        DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013


   11.5. Group skaters must form a single file when approaching or overtaking pedestrians.
   11.6. Skaters will skate at a speed safe for road conditions and will not harass the general
   public.
      11.6.1. Skaters are required to wear approved helmets (same guidelines as bicycle riders,
      para 8.2). It is strongly recommended that all skaters use wrist, elbow, and kneepads.
   11.7. Jumping ramps are not authorized along any roadway or sidewalk.
   11.8. It is prohibited for persons using skateboards, roller skates, or roller blades to wear a
   Walkman or similar headsets.
12. Miscellaneous
   12.1. No person shall perform vehicle maintenance on any roadway, parking lot, or access
   road except to perform emergency repairs. On base, major repairs will only be performed at
   the auto hobby shop. A major repair is any repair taking longer than two hours to complete.
   12.2. No person shall operate a motor vehicle unless the vehicle has a valid state vehicle
   registration plate securely attached to the vehicle. The plate will be clearly visible, legible,
   and free of foreign material or borders which hinder or obstruct vision of the registration
   plate.
   12.3. It is unlawful to interfere with any Security Forces person while such person is
   investigating accidents, traffic violations or citing persons for such violations.
   12.4. When passing a Security Forces vehicle displaying emergency lights engaged in a
   roadside traffic stop, vehicle operators will move to the outside lane if possible. As a
   minimum, all passing vehicles will reduce speed to 20 MPH while passing.
   12.5. Vehicles will remain at least 300 feet to the rear of emergency response vehicles.
   12.6. Vehicles will not be driven over unprotected fire hoses unless directed by on scene
   emergency personnel.
   12.7. Yielding right of way to emergency vehicles. All vehicle operators must yield the
   right of way to an emergency vehicle displaying a flashing red or blue light, sounding a siren,
   bell or horn. As soon as possible, pull over to the right shoulder of the roadway and come to
   a complete stop until the emergency vehicle or vehicles have passed.
   12.8. Speed Contest, Exhibition of Speed or Breaking Traction. No vehicle operator may
   promote or take part in any race or speed contest between motor vehicles or between single
   vehicle and any type of timing device; unless such contest is conducted with the written
   permission of the installation commander. No motor vehicle operator may display an
   exhibition of speed such as breaking traction, squealing or spinning tires that leave tire marks
   on the roadway surface.
   12.9. Vehicles will not be operated with ice, snow, fogged or excessively dirty windshield,
   windows, headlights, or tail lights. All glass will be free of obstructions which could restrict
   the visibility of the operator.
   12.10. All snow or ice must be removed from the hood, roof and trunk of vehicles before
   operation.
DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013                                                                  27


  12.11. Unattended animal restrictions:
     12.11.1. Animals will not be left unattended in the open bed of a truck, unless properly
     caged.
     12.11.2. Animals will not be left unattended in the passenger compartment of a vehicle
     unless controlled in such a manner that prevents an attack on other animals or persons
     outside the vehicle. Animals will not be left in vehicles when the temperature rises above
     70 degrees Fahrenheit.
  12.12. The following vehicle modifications are prohibited:
     12.12.1. Flashing or multicolor exterior lights not factory installed.
     12.12.2. Paint designs, bumper stickers, flags or any other offensive display. Offensive
     material is defined as any language or image that is obscene, commonly associated with
     gangs, extremist, and/or supremacist organizations, or that advocate sexual, racial, ethnic,
     or religious discrimination language or images. Vehicle operators will be cited and given
     72 hours to remove offensive material.




                                           RICHARD G. MOORE, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander, 436th Airlift Wing
 28                                                       DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 6055.4, Traffic Safety Program, 20 April 2009
AFI 31-218I, Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 22 May 2006
AFMAN 31-201, Security Forces Administration and Reports, 28 August 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 8 November 2008
Prescribed Forms
There are no prescribed forms in this publication.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 533, Certificate of Compliance – Private Motor Vehicle Registration
AF Form 75, Visitor/Vehicle Pass
AF Form 2293, US Air Force Motor Vehicle Operator Identification Card
AF Form 533, Certificate of Compliance – Private Motor Vehicle Registration
AF Form 1176, Authority to Search and Seize
CVB 1805, United States District Court Violation Notice
DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Ticket
DD Form 2220, DOD Registered Vehicle
DD Form 2506, Vehicle Impoundment Report
DD Form 1920, Alcohol Incident Report
DD Form 2504, Vehicle Impoundment Notice

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
ADAPT—Alcohol/Drug Abuse Prevention Treatment Program
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AMCI—Air Mobility Command Instruction
DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013                          29


ANG—Air National Guard
ATV—All Terrain Vehicles
BAC—Blood Alcohol Concentration
BDOC—Base Defense Operations Center
BX—Base Exchange
CC—Commander
CD—Deputy Commander
CDC—Child Development Center
CES—Civil Engineering Squadron
CVB—Central Violations Bureau
DoD—Department of Defense
DSP—Delaware State Police
DUI—Driving Under the Influence
DWI—Driving While Intoxicated
HMMWV—High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicle
FH—Family Housing
GMV—Government Motor Vehicle
IAW—In Accordance With
IMC—Industrial Maintenance Complex
IMT—Information Management Tool
JA—Judge Advocate
LMV—Light Motor Vehicle
MPH—Miles Per Hour
MSG—Mission Support Group
NAF—Non-Appropriated Funds
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORV—Off-Road Vehicle
PDA—Personal Digital Assistant
POV—Privately Owned Vehicle
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SE—Safety
SFMIS—Security Forces Management Information System
 30                                               DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013


SFS—Security Forces
SRBW—Suspension, Revocation, Barred and Warrant
SUP—Supplement
TBD—To Be Determined
TDY—Temporary Duty
UCMJ—Uniformed Code of Military Justice
UFC—Unified Facilities Criteria
US—United States
USC—United States Code
DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013                                                                       31


                                           Attachment 2
                                          DEFINITIONS

Authorized Emergency Vehicle - Fire department, ambulance, Security Forces or other
emergency vehicles as designated by proper authority.
Bicycle - Shall include a class of vehicles which are exclusively human powered by means of
foot pedals, which the driver normally rides astride, and do not have in excess of three wheels.
Major Vehicle Accident - Any accident to a POV or GMV involving government or private
property damage exceeding $10,000 or injuries/death to any person at the accident scene.
NOTE: Any injury, regardless of severity, or accidents, which are difficult to explain (i.e. No
correlation between damage and accident chain-of-events, arson suspected, fraudulent claim
anticipated, etc.), defines the incident as a major accident.
Minor Vehicle Accident - Any accident with non-disabling damage to Government Motor
Vehicle (GMV), and/or Privately Owned Vehicle (POV), and/or government property less than
$10,000 and in which there are no injuries.
Moped - A pedal bicycle having two tandem wheels, either over 20 inches in diameter, and with
helper motor characterized in that the maximum piston displacement is less than 55cc and
maximum speed does not exceed 25 mph.
Motorcycle - A motor vehicle designed to travel with no more than three wheels in contact with
the ground.
Motor Vehicle/Vehicle - Any means of transportation by a motor powered engine to include
mopeds, scooter, all-terrain vehicles, motorcycles, cars, and trucks.
Family Housing (FH) - Pertains to Eagle Heights.
Juvenile - All persons under the age of 18 are defined as juveniles for the purpose of this
instruction.
Parked or Parking - The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, in a designated area or in
compliance with a police person, sign, or signal.
Recreational Vehicle - Includes every motor vehicle used for temporary human living quarters,
not the residence of the owner or occupant, and used for recreational or vacation activities,
including motor homes, self-propelled campers and other motor vehicles with permanently
attached camper components.
Right of Way - The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful manner in
preference to another vehicle or person.
Roadway - The portion of the highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used for vehicle traffic,
exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
Skating – The use of roller-skates, roller blades, skateboards, or scooters.
Traffic Control Device - All signs, signals, markings, and devices used for the purpose of
regulating, warning, and guiding traffic. This includes Security Forces and properly designated
personnel who are manually directing traffic.
 32                                                        DOVERAFBI31-218 23 JULY 2013


Stop or Stopping - A complete cessation of movement.
Troop Movement - Any group of people traveling in formation on a roadway. This includes
military and exercise formations.
Unsafe Act - An act or omission in traffic, which is hazardous.

Figure A2.1. PARKING PLACARD
                                     PARKING PLACARD

Vehicle Owner’s Name:                                  Squadron:



POC with Keys:                                         Phone No:



Parking Start Date:                                    Parking End Date:



Date Registration Expires:                              Date Insurance Expires:



Additional Remarks: (1st Sgt Name, etc.)
