BY ORDER OF THE                                   DOVER AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
436TH AIRLIFT WING                                                           10-2502

                                                                                   29 JUNE 2012

                                                                                       Operations

                                                             EXERCISE EVALUATION TEAM
                                                              OPERATIONAL INSTRUCTION



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 436 AW/XPE                                                         Certified by: 436 AW/CC
                                                                      (Colonel Mark D. Camerer)
                                                                                        Pages: 15




This Dover Air Force Base Instruction (DAFBI), 10-2502, Exercise Evaluation Team
Operational Instruction, implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-2, Inspector
General--The Inspection System and further clarifies Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-2501, Air
Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations. DAFBI 10-2502
authorizes and establishes the 436th Airlift Wing (AW) exercise evaluation program. It assigns
responsibilities and describes procedures for evaluating 436 AW responses to simulated disaster,
security, and contingency operations. It further defines responsibilities for inspections, reports
and corrective actions taken with respect to exercises. This instruction is applicable to all units
assigned or attached to Dover Air Force Base (DAFB), with the exception of the 512 AW, which
falls under the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Inspector General (IG) program, unless
otherwise specified. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command.
 2                                                        DOVERAFBI10-2502 29 JUNE 2012


1. General. AF and Headquarters (HQ) Air Mobility Command (AMC) guidance tasks the
436th AW to conduct periodic exercises to determine unit readiness. Exercise frequency is
governed by directive and unit performance.
2. Program Objectives. The goal of this program is to improve organization’s capability to
organizational effectiveness by giving commanders an independent assessment of their meet
mission taskings. The program will evaluate the ability of the 436 AW to respond to accidents,
disasters, increased states of readiness, and deployments in support of worldwide contingency
operations.
3. Applicability. This instruction applies to all 436 AW units. Tenant units may be asked to
support exercises within their capabilities and areas of responsibility. There is also a continuing
requirement for units to conduct exercises that are not specifically covered by this instruction.
These exercises involve unit unique training scenarios. Exercise planning must ensure thorough
scenario development and coordination with tasked units. All exercises that impact the daily
operations of the 436 AW and supporting units must be coordinated through Wing Exercises and
Evaluations (436 AW/XPE).
4. Responsibilities.
     4.1. The 436th AW Commander (CC) is the approval authority for all Wing exercises
     conducted on DAFB. The 436th AW/CC will ensure the AW can successfully respond to a
     variety of operational challenges.
     4.2. 436 AW/XPE will:
        4.2.1. Direct the Wing Exercise Evaluation Team (EET).
        4.2.2. Schedule, plan, and conduct Wing exercises.
        4.2.3. Develop, coordinate, and maintain the Wing annual exercise calendar.
        4.2.4. Develop objectives and scenarios for all exercises based on inputs from the
        Installation Readiness Working Group (IRWG), Installation Readiness Board (IRB)
        Group, Squadron CCs and, unit EET members.
        4.2.5. Coordinate all exercises with Group CCs or Vice Wing Commander and the
        Installation Deployment Officer (IDO), as required.
        4.2.6. Maintain Air Force Emergency Response Operations (AERO), EET, and initial
        EET classroom training dates, as well as Group/Squadron CC EET appointment letters.
     4.3. Group and Squadron CCs will:
        4.3.1. Support all exercises to the maximum extent possible.
        4.3.2. Provide recommendations and inputs for the Master Scenario Events Log (MSEL)
        for all exercises. Inputs submitted from EET should be vetted through the respective
        Group CC.
        4.3.3. Designate an appropriate number of highly qualified individuals (primary and
        alternates) to be EET members and evaluate all exercises. Ensure EET members
        complete required training and attend meetings scheduled by 436 AW/XPE. EET
        members will serve as functional area evaluators and must be available upon request by
DOVERAFBI10-2502 29 JUNE 2012                                                                  3


      the EET Chief for the duration of the exercise. All EET members will be considered
      ―trusted agents.‖
   4.4. 436 AW EET members will:
      4.4.1. Be highly qualified functional experts, professional at all times and in compliance
      with AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel.
      4.4.2. Keep close-hold information about exercises, provided by 436 AW/XPE, in strict
      confidence and divulge only information approved/authorized for release by 436
      AW/XPE.
      4.4.3. Accomplish required EET training after being appointed by Group/Squadron CC.
      4.4.4. During all exercises, wear EET badge and/or evaluator hat/vest. Additionally,
      during hours of darkness, EET members will wear reflective gear/belt.
      4.4.5. Be highly knowledgeable of all plans, instructions and other directives affecting
      their particular unit.
      4.4.6. Maintain current copies of checklists and other procedural directives to ensure a
      thorough and unbiased evaluation.
      4.4.7. Attend EET meetings and additional EET training as determined by the EET
      Chief.
      4.4.8. Act as their CC’s direct link to the performance and compliance of their units.
         4.4.8.1. Solicit CCs for inputs for exercise objectives and scenarios.
         4.4.8.2. Debrief CCs on major problems noted during exercises as soon as possible
         after exercise termination. The intent is to highlight and correct findings prior to the
         formal debrief.
      4.4.9. Terminate any activity, exercise or real-world, they deem unsafe, even at the
      sacrifice of exercise objectives. Safety is paramount during exercises; EET members
      play an equal part as evaluator and safety observer.
      4.4.10. Conduct evaluations according to MSEL, scenario guidelines and evaluation
      checklists. Provide the specific reference (Air Force Instruction (AFI)/Technical Order
      (TO), paragraph #, etc.) for each finding/observation.
      4.4.11. Report to their designated inspection stations as directed by the team chief.
      4.4.12. Be available throughout the exercise and critique period, not only to evaluate, but
      to answer questions, provide additional information and to validate findings. EET
      members will be released to their work centers by the team chief following the EET
      debrief.
      4.4.13. Submit all AARs electronically using the format in attachment 2, Exercise
      Observation, within two duty days of the exercise.
5. EET Function.
   5.1. The EET provides feedback to the 436 AW/CC on the ability of the Wing to execute
   contingency operations.
 4                                                        DOVERAFBI10-2502 29 JUNE 2012


        5.1.1. This program acts as a barometer of the Wing’s state of readiness. Exercise
        reports provide the Wing and Group CCs a perspective of their unit’s ability to react to
        contingency operations. It helps to focus leadership’s attention on areas requiring
        improvement in training, procedures and/or equipment.
        5.1.2. This program does not replace each unit’s internal training program. All 436 AW
        units and organizations should have training programs in place and exercise regularly to
        evaluate their own readiness. Unit in-house exercises should be the norm to ensure
        readiness during wing-wide exercises.
        5.1.3. The Wing Exercise Evaluation Programs will serve to highlight effective training
        programs and provide exercise settings that cross functional boundaries that are too large
        for an individual unit to coordinate.
     5.2. Mission. To provide the expertise required for the maintenance of a dynamic and
     effective evaluation capability at DAFB. Exercises provide in-depth evaluations of all facets
     of the Wing’s capability to perform its mission.
     5.3. EET Composition. EET membership includes, but is not limited to, members from each
     squadron and tenant unit on DAFB.
     5.4. EET Chief. EET Chief will be a Field Grade Officer or qualified civilian assigned to
     Plans and Programs designated in writing by the 436 AW/CC.
        5.4.1. EET Assistant Chiefs.     Personnel assigned to 436 AW/XP and appointed in
        writing by the 436 AW/CC.
        5.4.2. EET Primary Group Functional Area Chiefs (FAC)/ EET alternate Group FACs.
        Each Group, including Wing Staff, will appoint by letter, two highly qualified officers
        and/or Senior Noncommissioned Officers (SNCOs) to act as a primary and alternate
        Group FACs. These individuals will be the key point of contact (POC) and responsible
        for their Group EET members. FAC, will serve as a liaison between primary and
        alternate squadron appointed EET members and the 436 AW EET Chief.
        5.4.3. Squadron Functional Area Team Chief. Each squadron subject to evaluation by
        436 AW EET will appoint by letter a highly qualified officer or SNCO to act as their
        Functional Area Team Chief. Whenever possible, this individual will be the Officer-In-
        Charge (OIC) or Noncommissioned OIC (NCOIC) of the particular function to be
        evaluated. These individuals, and any additional designated members, will be specified
        as EET by Squadron Commanders in writing (Attachment 2).
     5.5. Exercise Scenario Security. Unless directed by the 436 AW/CC, scenarios for each
     exercise and report are designated as EET ―Internal Working Papers.‖ Under no
     circumstances will planning documents (i.e., MSEL, input cards, events, scenarios, location)
     be divulged to non-EET members. EET members assisting with planning of exercises will
     not be authorized to actively participate/work within their units during the exercise.
6. Exercises.
     6.1. 436 AW EET Wing Readiness Exercises will be conducted IAW AFI 10-2501. The
     frequency required will be based on maintaining a high state of readiness as directed by the
     436 AW/CC. These exercises will be limited in scope ranging from Command Post (CP)
DOVERAFBI10-2502 29 JUNE 2012                                                                  5


   exercises of short duration to mobility exercises of selected Operations Plans lasting several
   days.
   6.2. Unit Control Centers (UCC) will maintain a sequence of events logs. All Copy Format
   2 messages will be maintained on the 436 AW/XP Enterprise Information Management
   (EIM).
   6.3. Emergency Recall Exercises. These exercises must be accomplished rapidly and in
   such a manner as to deny information to a potential enemy.
   6.4. Each unit will conduct unit exercises as deemed necessary by the unit commander.
   When a units exercise will involve three or more functional areas, they will be coordinated,
   conducted and evaluated by the 436 AW EET.
7. Exercise AARs.
   7.1. The 436th AW/XPE and unit EET members will prepare a written AAR using
   Attachment 3. One of the goals of the EET program is to make each exercise better than the
   last. To do this, inputs must be in the form of constructive criticism or laudatory comments.
   Each observation must include the source references and corrective actions.
   7.2. EET members will submit findings/inputs to 436 AW/XPE no later than (NLT) two
   duty days after each exercise. 436 AW/XPE will release an AAR for validation to the 436
   AW/CV NLT 30 duty days after the exercise. 436 AW/XPE will release and post the
   validated report on the 436 AW/XP EIM. A validated AAR will be made available to Group
   and Squadron CCs for corrective action/reply 30 days after the exercise. Group and/or
   Squadron CCs must return formal response to the AAR with corrective action/reply to
   asterisk items/findings in AAR NLT 30 days after the exercise report is validated, published,
   released, and posted on the 436 AW/XP EIM. Results/responses from Group and/or
   Squadron CCs will be forwarded to 436 AW/CV within 60 duty days following end of
   exercise (ENDEX).
   7.3. All findings will be assigned one Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) by the
   evaluation team and as many Offices of Collateral Responsibility (OCR) as required. The
   OPR of the listed observation will initiate corrective actions (unit response) and submit an
   email reply through the respective Group CC to 436 AW/XPE. The reply must include the
   corrective action, squadron/office symbol, Point of Contact (POC), estimated completion
   date, and status (open or closed).
   7.4. 436 AW/XPE will ensure each finding on the final report is numbered to simplify OPR
   responses. All AARs will be posted on the 436 AW/XP EIM. Unit responses will be entered
   on the AAR below each finding (Attachment 3). Unit responses will also be entered into a
   436 AW/XPE Remedial Action Plan to track possible trends. All findings requiring a
   response will be incorporated into the next exercise MSEL (if possible) to ensure unit
   responses and corrective actions are appropriate.
   7.5. Asterisk items/findings in the AAR will require a formal response and the following
   format will be used:
      7.5.1. Cover letters will include the exercise name and the exercise dates in the subject
      line.
      7.5.2. ―For‖ line will include the Group CC in the chain and XPE ―IN-TURN.‖
6                                                            DOVERAFBI10-2502 29 JUNE 2012


       7.5.3. Each answerable observation will include:
           7.5.3.1. Observation number.
           7.5.3.2. Office symbol.
           7.5.3.3. Specific actions taken to correct discrepancy.
    7.6. If the discrepancy cannot be corrected in a timely manner, indicate data required to
    resolve the problem and include estimated corrective action close out date.
       7.6.1. Discrepancy’s estimated corrective action date will be monitored by the owning
       unit and follow up action confirmed to 436 AW/XPE on a quarterly basis.
    7.7. Non-asterisked items/findings in AAR will also require a unit response. Unit responses
    to non-asterisked items, will be entered directly into the AAR posted on the Plans and
    Programs EIM by Squadron/Group CCs, designated representative (OPR listed on AAR),
    Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and/or unit EET members (Attachment 3).
    7.8. Exercise Grading. EET members are responsible for evaluating all Wing-initiated
    exercises. Grades are established and awarded based on references for each finding.
    Discrepancies discovered by the EET members are listed in the AAR posted on the 436 th
    AW/XP EIM. All CCs are provided a link to reports and should provide corrective actions.
    7.9. Real-World AAR.
       7.9.1. All units who respond to real-world incident/events will provide an AAR to 436
       AW/XP within 30 days. The real-world AAR should contain log of events, lessons
       learned, corrective actions and any other documents used in response to real-world
       incidents.
       7.9.2. Unit EET members will coordinate with Group/Squadron CCs and responding
       personnel to ensure 436 AW/XP is provided the real-world AAR.
    7.10. Lessons Learned Program.
       7.10.1. The Air Force Lessons Learned (L2) Program (AFL2P) exists to enhance
       readiness and improve combat capability by capitalizing on the experiences of Airmen.
       A ―lesson learned‖ is defined as insight gained that improves military operations or
       activities at the strategic, operation, or tactical level, and results in long-term, internalized
       change to an individual, group of individuals, or an organization. Past experiences also
       assist senior leaders in programming, budgeting, and allocating resources to make
       changes to doctrine, organizations, training, materiel, leadership & education, personnel,
       and facilities (DOTMLPF).
       7.10.2. A lesson learned is not a compliance ―report card,‖ nor is it automatically
       accepted and implemented without the scrutiny of warfighters and functional experts. A
       lesson learned is not ―owned‖ by any one organization (e.g., the Combat Air Forces
       (CAF), Mobility Air Forces (MAF), the respective A9Ls, etc.).
       7.10.3. In addition to capturing details from significant events, the lessons learned
       program should also focus on issue resolution and problem solving current challenges.
           7.10.3.1. Lesson learned program will be used in conjunction with the DAFB
           Remedial Action Plan to annotate and track exercise trends.
DOVERAFBI10-2502 29 JUNE 2012                                                                   7


      7.10.4. All lesson learned information will be forwarded by unit EET to 436 AW/XPE
      for review prior to being published on the Air Force Joint Lessons Learned Information
      System (AF-JLLIS) database. https://www.jllis.il/usaf.
8. EET Training.
   8.1. Initial EET training is comprised of computer based training (CBT) and, formal
   classroom training. It includes AERO and EET CBTs and EET classroom training conducted
   by 436 AW/XPE and 436 Civil Engineer Squadron Readiness Flight (436 CES/CEX). EET
   members will email AERO and EET completion certificates to 436 AW/XPE. The EET
   roster on the 436 AW/XP EIM will list training dates. EET formal training will be conducted
   IAW AFI 10-2501.
   8.2. Additional follow-on training and procedures specific to each exercise throughout the
   year will be provided during scheduled weekly EET meetings and as required. Examples of
   additional training are widespread and can be very detailed and technical in nature. As a
   result, specialized/unique training will be provided by SMEs throughout the Wing for Major
   Accident Response Exercises (MAREs), Deployment Exercises (DEPEXs), natural disasters
   and all Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear and Explosive/High Yield (CBRNE)
   related exercises IAW AFI 10-2501.
9. Procedures.
   9.1. 436 AW/XPE will have overall responsibility in combining inputs for exercise scenario
   development however, SME involvement from Group/Squadron EET is vital to creating an
   effective exercise scenario. Additionally, 436 AW/XPE requires inputs from all unit EET
   members to exercise unit specific functional areas. Unit EET members are expected to
   collect exercise inputs from their Group CCs, Squadron CCs, First Sergeants,
   Superintendents, Supervisors, and other Squadron members. Operational Readiness Exercise
   (ORE) and Emergency Management Inspection (EMI) scenarios are particularly complex and
   require detailed/unique inputs from all base support agencies as well.
   9.2. 436 AW/XPE will identify and brief all required EET members prior to exercise
   initiation. Each team member will be issued a badge, hat, and/or vest identifying them as
   436 AW EET members. Departing EET members will turn in all issued equipment to 436
   AW/XPE.
   9.3. For maximum realism, exercise information will be disseminated on a need-to-know
   basis and will be released to as few individuals as possible. All flight line exercise activity
   will be coordinated with Airfield Management and Tower Chief IAW AFI 10-2501.
   9.4. Evaluators, using appropriate checklists, will closely monitor and evaluate their
   designated areas. Evaluators will minimize interference with the personnel or function being
   evaluated; however, evaluators will take immediate action to stop all unsafe actions
   involving personnel or equipment.
   9.5. At the conclusion of the exercise, the EET Chief will conduct a ―hotwash‖ with the EET
   and all members of the Disaster Response Force (DRF). Follow up ―hotwashes‖ if needed,
   will be conducted.
   9.6. EET Chief will provide an informal outbrief to CCs (if requested).
 8                                                        DOVERAFBI10-2502 29 JUNE 2012


10. Exemptions/Simulations/Limitations for Wing Exercises or HQ AMC Evaluations.
     10.1. Personnel listed below are excused from participation in exercises. Tasked squadrons
     will identify the shortfall and provide replacements (if available).
        10.1.1. Airman Leadership School (ALS) students.
        10.1.2. Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS) testing personnel.
        10.1.3. Personnel who have been given medical profiles (AF Form 422, Physical Profile
        Serial Report) and whose participation would be detrimental to the individual.
        10.1.4. Real-world missions with the approval of the 436 AW/CC.
        10.1.5. Additional Exemptions/Simulations/Limitations are listed in the Operational
        Readiness ORI/EMI Ground Rules on the HQ AMC/IG EIM. The ORI/EMI Ground
        Rules will be used during DAFB exercises.
        10.1.6. DAFB supplemental Ground Rules specific to each exercise and objectives will
        also be provided.
     10.2. Simulation Requests. Unit CC will not consider simulation requests approved, until
     approved by 436 AW/CC. Simulations must be kept to an absolute minimum and provided
     to 436 AW/XPE, two weeks prior to each exercise. As a reminder, before submitting
     simulation requests, review the ORI and EMI Ground Rules on the HQ AMC/IG EIM for
     pre-approved or existing simulations.
        10.2.1. Simulation requests must answer the following questions: WHAT? (Describe
        the simulation task or equipment.) HOW? (Describe how you will simulate the task.)
        WHY? (Provide a brief explanation of why the simulation is required and the impact if
        the Chief EET disapproves the simulation. HQ AMC/IG Ground Rules for ORI/EMI and
        DAFB Exercises have pre-approved simulations.).
        10.2.2. Unit CCs do not require simulation requests during disasters and other exercises
        where it is impractical to submit a letter, when directing or supporting critical time
        sensitive host/tenant mission requirements/support or real world emergencies. Unit CC
        will contact appropriate unit functional EET members of unit actions taken at the earliest
        practical opportunity. Unit functional EET members will report all simulations
        immediately to 436 AW/XPE.
        10.2.3. Civilian employees working on Dover AFB who are bargaining unit employees
        may be appointed as EET members on a case-by-case basis.




                                             MARK D. CAMERER, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 436th Airlift Wing
DOVERAFBI10-2502 29 JUNE 2012                                                          9


                                           Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations, 24
Jan 07
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, 18 Jul 11
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08
AFPD 90-2, Inspector General--The Inspection, 26 Apr 06
Prescribed Forms
No Forms prescribed by this publication.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 422, Notification of Air Force Member’s Qualification Status, 25 Oct 07

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAR—After Action Report
AERO—Air Force Emergency Response Operations
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AF—JLISS – Air Force Joint Lessons Learned Information System
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ALS—Airman Leadership School
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AW—Airlift Wing
CBRNE—Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear, Explosive/High Yield
CBT—Computer Based Training
CC—Commander
CES—Civil Engineering Squadron
CP—Command Post
CV—Vice Commander
DAFB—Dover Air Force Base
 10                                         DOVERAFBI10-2502 29 JUNE 2012


DAFBI—Dover Air Force Base Instruction
DEPEX—Deployment Exercise
DRF—Disaster Response Force
EET—Exercise Evaluation Team
EIM—Enterprise Information Management
EMI—Emergency Management Inspection
FAC—Functional Area Chiefs
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
IDO—Installation Deployment Officer
IG—Inspector General
IMT—Information Management Tool
IRB—Installation Readiness Board
IRWG—Installation Readiness Working Group
MARE—Major Accident Response Exercise
MSEL—Master Scenario Events Log
NCOIC—Noncommissioned Officer in Charge
NLT—No Later Than
OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility
OIC—Officer in Charge
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORE—Operational Readiness Exercise
ORI—Operational Readiness Inspection
POC—Point of Contact
SME—Subject Matter Expert
SNCO—Senior Noncommissioned Officer
TBD—To Be Determined
TO—Technical Order
UCC—Unit Control Center
WAPS—Weighted Airman Promotion System
WMD—Weapons of Mass Destruction
XP—Plans and Programs
DOVERAFBI10-2502 29 JUNE 2012   11


XPE—Exercises and Evaluations

Terms
ENDEX— End of Exercise
STARTEX— Start of Exercise
PAUSEX— Pause of Exercise
 12                                                      DOVERAFBI10-2502 29 JUNE 2012


                                         Attachment 2
                               EET APPOINTMENT LETTER

                                                                                         DATE
MEMORANDUM FOR 436 AW/XPE
FROM: (GROUP / SQUADRON COMMANDER)
SUBJECT: Appointment of Exercise Evaluation Team (EET) members
1. The following individuals are designated as EET members for Group/Squadron.
POSITION** / RANK/FIRST NAME/LAST NAME / OFFICE SYMBOL / DUTY PHONE
2. EET members listed above will contact the 436th Airlift Wing, Exercises and Evaluations
Office 436 AW/XPE, at ext 677-2282 or 677-3240 to schedule EET classroom training.
3. As a member of the EET, you will be required to attend training and planning meetings as
well as perform exercise evaluation duties during Wing exercises. Your appointment to the team
is due to your expertise, senior Air Force Specialty Code skill level, exceptional performance,
and high standards of conduct and appearance. You are directed to report to the places and times
designated by 436 AW/XPE in supporting Wing exercises.
4. This letter supersedes all previous correspondence on the same subject.




                                                     COMMANDER’S SIGNATURE BLOCK
**List of required EET members
Primary Group Functional Area Chief = PGFAC (one required from each group)
Alternate Group Functional Area Chief = AGFAC (one required from each group)
Primary Squadron POC=PSP (each functional area within squadron requires a primary EET
member)
Alternate Sq POC=ASP (each functional area within squadron requires an alternate EET
member)
Primary White Cell POC = PWC (White Cell functions as Exercise Control can be the PGFAC)
Alternate White Cell POC=AWC (White Cell functions as Exercise Control can be the AGFAC)
DOVERAFBI10-2502 29 JUNE 2012                                                                    13


                                         Attachment 3
                         EXERCISE FINDING REPLY FORMAT*

*1. FINDING: (OPR: Only one office symbol; OCR: List all applicable offices).
OBSERVATION: (Include governing guidance AFI/AFMAN…)
RECOMMENDATION: (Include details to correct observation and estimated completion date.).
UNIT RESPONSE: When AAR is posted on EIM, Group/Squadron Commander’s corrective
actions will be entered here by designated SQ/CC representative or unit EET members.
2. FINDING: (OPR: Only one office; OCR: List all applicable offices.)
OBSERVATION: (Include governing guidance AFI/AFMAN…)
RECOMMENDATION: (Include details to correct observation and estimated completion date.)
UNIT RESPONSE: When AAR is posted on EIM, Group/Squadron Commander’s corrective
actions will be entered here by designated SQ/CC representative or unit EET members.
*3. FINDING: (OPR: Only one office; OCR: List all applicable offices.)
OBSERVATION: (Include governing guidance AFI/AFMAN…)
RECOMMENDATION: (Include details to correct observation and estimated completion date.)
UNIT RESPONSE: When AAR is posted on EIM, Group/Squadron Commander’s corrective
actions will be entered here by designated SQ/CC representative or unit EET members.




*NOTE: 436 AW/XPE will place an asterisk (*) in front of each number if a formal follow up
response is required by the unit based on the recommendation provided by the unit (Paragraph
7). Please use: Times New Roman (12) font, Two spaces after (1.), (.) and (:), One space after
(;). Unit Response will be entered by OPR after AAR is posted on Plans and Programs EIM.
 14                                                       DOVERAFBI10-2502 29 JUNE 2012


                                          Attachment 4
                              SELF-INSPECTION CHECKLIST

1. Has the Installation Commander assigned an EET Chief and directed each assigned and tenant
unit to appoint personnel to become members of the EET? (AFI 10-2501, Paragraph 7.5.2.)
1.1. Does the EET Chief train EET members in concert with CE Readiness? (AFI 10-2501,
Paragraph 7.7.)
1.2. Does the EET develop exercise scenarios to validate actual plans, policies, procedures,
processes, and doctrine using existing command, control and communications systems? (AFI 10-
2501, Paragraph 7.4.5.)
1.3. Does the EET Team Chiefs develop a time-phased MSEL for each exercise and do
functional EET representatives identify events for their specific functional areas and include
anticipated action/response for each event? (AFI 10-2501, AMC Supplement 1, Paragraph 7.4.5.)
1.4. Has the EET Chief ensured tenant units participate in the Installation Exercise Program?
(AFI 10-2501, Paragraph 7.6.3.)
1.5. Does the EET Chief coordinate all EM exercises with the Fire Chief, Safety, and the Chief
of Air Traffic Control Operations at least 30 minutes prior to STARTEX? (AFI 10-2501, AMC
Supplement 1, Paragraph 7.6.4.)
1.6. Do EET Team Chiefs conduct an exercise critique involving all EET representatives within
one working day following the completion of the exercise? Do EET members submit a list of
DRF personnel participating in the exercise, submit inputs/lessons learned and identify plans to
validate these items? (AFI 10-2501, AMC Supplement 1, Paragraph 7.4.9.2.)
1.7. Do EET Team Chiefs track lessons learned and deficiencies? Are functional OPRs
assigned to track and correct these? Are items or actions identified as deficient incorporated into
the next similar exercise and, based upon the outcome of the exercise, closed or identified as a
repeat deficiency? (AFI 10-2501, AMC Supplement 1, Paragraph 7.4.9.)
1.8. Installation EET Chiefs (AMC Active Duty only) forward a copy of the Wing exercise
schedule for that calendar year to arrive at HQ AMC/A7XR and HQ AMC/IGISE NLT 15
January of each year? (AFI 10-2501, AMC Supplement 1, Paragraph 7.5.1.)
1.9. Has the EET Chief prepared a localized Exercise Evaluation Program Operating
Instruction? Is a copy of this forwarded to HQ AMC/A7XR (AMC Active Duty only)? (AFI 10-
2501, AMC Supplement 1, Paragraph 7.6.2.)
2. Does the EET conduct and document all required exercises? (AFI 10-2501, Table 7.1.)
2.1. Do Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) exercises incorporate the use of hazard
prediction models and include procedures to implement appropriate protection for personnel?
(AFI 10-2501, Table A4-12, Item 38 and 42)
DOVERAFBI10-2502 29 JUNE 2012                                                                   15


2.2 Do exercises evaluate the Installation notification and warning system function and
effectiveness? (AFI 10-2501, Paragraph 7.2.3.2.)
3. Do functional EET representatives conduct a verbal critique of their portion of an exercise to
their participating functional personnel immediately following exercise termination? Does the
critique include identification of strong points and deficient areas? (AFI 10-2501, AMC
Supplement 1, Paragraph 7.4.9.1.)
4. Does the EET Chief develop Remedial Action Program (RAP) tracking and procedures? (AFI
10-2501, 7.4.9 and 7.8)
