BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                           DOVER AIR FORCE BASE
436 AIRLIFT WING                                                       INSTRUCTION 21-204

                                                                                    14 MAY 2013

                                                                                     Maintenance

                                                     AIRCRAFT APPEARANCE STANDARDS




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 436 MXG/MXQA                                                      Certified by: 436 MXG/CC
                                                                            (Col Thomas J. Kauth)
Supersedes:    DOVERAFBI21-204,                                                           Pages: 4
               16 August 2005


This Dover AFB Instruction (DAFBI) establishes uniform responsibilities and procedures for
aircraft appearance standards. This instruction applies to all active duty, Air Reserve Technician,
Air Force Reserve, civilian employee, and civilian contractor personnel, who provide support
(fly, service, inspect, maintain, or repair) for 436th Airlift Wing aircraft. Compliance with this
DAFBI is mandatory by all agencies and maintenance organizations assigned under the 436th
and 512th Airlift Wings.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office
of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s
chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Paragraph 1.1
has been changed to state that all personnel are responsible for the areas under their control.
Paragraphs 2.4-2.6 have been added under the Operations Group responsibilities section. The
paragraph referencing aircraft lavatory use has been moved to chapter 3.1.
 2                                                                 DOVERAFBI21-204 14 MAY 2013


1. Responsibilities:
     1.1. All personnel operating, maintaining, servicing, or conducting training on aircraft assigned
     to Dover AFB will be responsible for the cleanliness of the areas under their control after such
     actions are completed and prior to leaving the aircraft.
2. Operations Group:
     2.1. The aircraft commander is responsible for ensuring the cleanliness of the aircraft while it is
     under their control. Any discrepancies in pre-mission cleanliness and/or post-mission
     requirements should be addressed, in a timely manner, to the appropriate agency.
     2.2. Each crew member is responsible for ensuring the areas in and around their crew positions
     are clean. This task will include placing trash in appropriate receptacles.
     2.3. Prior to landing at port of entry, the aircraft commander or designated representative will
     ensure all food waste including peelings are collected in tight, leak-proof, covered receptacles
     (taped or doubled tied plastic bags satisfy this requirement).
     2.4. Loadmasters will stow all straps and tie down devices prior to leaving the aircraft.
3. Maintenance:
     3.1. Personnel will not use aircraft lavatories or galleys, unless the aircraft is scheduled for a flight
     on the day of use and the aircrew has arrived at the aircraft to prepare for their respective sortie.
         3.1.1. Maintaining the appearance of the aircraft is a daily requirement for the ground crew.
         Between scheduled maintenance, high-visibility and high-use areas will require a more
         concentrated cleaning effort. To ensure a high appearance standard is maintained, the following
         tasks will be accomplished in addition to the appropriate weapon system inspection work cards.
     3.2. Pre/Post Flight Inspections:
         3.2.1. Clean flight deck area, to include crew rest bunks, relief crew, courier compartment
         and troop compartment.
         3.2.2. When maintenance uses trash containers for maintenance generated refuse,
         maintenance will empty the trash containers, before release of aircraft to fleet service and
         operations.
         3.2.3. Ensure all areas of the cargo compartment are clean and required items properly
         stowed after cargo is off-loaded.
     3.3. Home Station Check (HSC):
         3.3.1. Clean cargo and flight deck floors.
         3.3.2. Clean and inspect all interior panels.
         3.3.3. Clean all seats, to include armrests and food tables.
         3.3.4. Clean forward and aft lavatory.
         3.3.5. Clean galley areas.
         3.3.6. Inspect all ladders for condition of nonskid strips for wear and deterioration. Repair or
         replace strips as necessary.
     3.4. Isochronal Inspections (ISO):
DOVERAFBI21-204 14 MAY 2013                                                                            3


      3.4.1. Accomplish all HSC requirements.
      3.4.2. Inspect cargo floor and crew entry ladder nonskid strips for wear and deterioration.
      Repair or replace strips as necessary.
      3.4.3. Replace seat covers if soiled, worn or torn.
      3.4.4. Remove and replace floor covering.
      3.4.5. Clean or replace interior equipment, e.g. curtains, station dividers, etc.
      3.4.6. Paint interior and exterior areas of the aircraft as required.
      3.4.7. Replace worn decals as required.
   3.5. Interior Washes: The use of interior washes to keep appearances up to standards is highly
   encouraged. The Maintenance Group will take full advantage of washes allotted in the contract.
4. 436th Aerial Port Squadron:
   4.1. Fleet Service is the backbone of aircraft cleanliness. They are responsible for interior
   surface cleanliness of the passenger and cargo compartments, latrines, galleys, drawers,
   associated passenger comfort equipment and providing lavatory and water servicing. Fleet
   Service will notify maintenance personnel when spills are beyond their capability in any area of
   the aircraft. They will:
      4.1.1. Empty all aircraft trash containers and install new plastic liners after each mission.
      4.1.2. Remove all trash from airline-type seat pockets.
      4.1.3. Ensure all food waste to including peelings are promptly disposed of at approved
      facilities.
      4.1.4. Remove all trash from the floor and sweep and mop as required to remove residue.
      4.1.5. Clean and sanitize aircraft latrines to include the floor, mirrors, sinks, toilet area, soap
      dispensers, and cabinets.
      4.1.6. Clean ovens and galley areas with products approved for food service facilities.
      4.1.7. Clean forward and aft galley refrigerators.
      4.1.8. Ensure the lavatory waste drain cap is secure and area is fresh water rinsed.
   4.2. Enroute Locations:
      4.2.1. Aircraft remaining more than 12 hours at an en route location will have all items listed
      in paragraphs 2.2. and 2.3. accomplished to the maximum extent possible. At a minimum,
      the flight crews will ensure all trash is removed from the flight deck and items like
      publications, blankets, etc., are properly stowed. The Flying Crew Chief (FCC) will be
      primarily responsible for ensuring aircraft cleanliness when the aircraft is away from home
      station. They will coordinate with en route facilities to ensure the aircraft is properly cleaned
      and serviced.




                                               RICHARD G. MOORE, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander, 436th Airlift Wing
 4                                                        DOVERAFBI21-204 14 MAY 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2010
AMCI 24-101V10, Military Airlift-Fleet Service, 30 August 2012
T.O. 1-1-691, Aircraft Weapons Systems Cleaning and Corrosion Control
Prescribed Forms/Information Management Tools (IMTs)
There are no Forms or IMTs prescribed by this publication.
Adopted Forms
AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFB—Air Force Base
DAFBI—Dover Air Force Base Instruction
FCC—Flying Crew Chief
HSC—Home Station Check
ISO—Isochronal Inspection
MXG—Maintenance Group
OG—Operations Group
TBD—To Be Determined
