BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         DOVER AIR FORCE BASE
DOVER AIR FORCE BASE                                                 INSTRUCTION 23-301

                                                                         4 NOVEMBER 2011

                                                                        Materiel Management

                                                 GOVERNMENT OWNED VEHICLE (GOV)
                                                     ACCIDENT AND ABUSE PROGRAM


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 436 LRS/LGRV                                                    Certified by: 436 LRS/CC
                                                                        (Lt Col Sean K. Tyler)
                                                                                      Pages: 10


Dover Air Force Base Instruction (DAFBI) 23-301, Government Owned Vehicle (GOV)
Accident and Abuse Program: Outlines definitions, responsibilities, and procedures for an
effective vehicle accident and abuse program with the visibility and emphasis at the unit level
and under the direct control of the unit commander (CC). This instruction runs in accordance
with (IAW) Air Force Instruction (AFI) 23-302, Vehicle Management, 29 October 2007, and
incorporates necessary guidance from newly implemented Headquarters (HQ) United States Air
Force (USAF) Program Action Directive (PAD) 08-01, Global Wing Structure, 12 May 2009.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008,
and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command.

1. General. This instruction is applicable to all persons operating Government Owned Vehicle
(GOV)/Equipment (E), and all Acme leased assets assigned to Dover Air Force Base (DAFB)
loaded in the On-Line Interactive Vehicle Management System (OLVIMS).
2. Policy. The owning organization, or the organization responsible for the damage, if not the
owner, will reimburse the 436th Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS), Vehicle Management
(LGRV) for all vehicle parts and/or contract repair costs to repair accident and abuse related
 2                                                   DOVERAFBI23-301 4 NOVEMBER 2011


damage. Where responsibility cannot be determined, the owning organization will be
responsible for reimbursement. Examples of vehicle abuse are listed in Attachment 2.
     2.1. Reimbursement to 436 LRS/LGRV is accomplished by transferring funds from the
     owning or responsible organization’s Operations and Maintenance (O&M) account to a 436
     LRS/LGRV O&M account. Note: This is a must pay bill. In all cases, payment or
     reimbursement to 436 LRS/LGRV will be made regardless of determination of pecuniary
     liability or reimbursement made by the individual to the government. In addition, if a
     responsible organization (squadron, group, detachment, etc.) cannot pay or make
     reimbursement, the owning organization will assume the responsibility for reimbursement.
     For organizations with funding from the Transportation Working Capital Fund (TWCF),
     reimbursements are automatically made by TWCF through OLVIMS, so no transfer of funds
     or Government Purchase Card (GPC) payments are required from the organization.
     2.2. The Vehicle Fleet Manager or Vehicle Management Superintendent or designated
     representative will determine if the vehicle damage was caused by accident/abuse or incident.
     The Vehicle Fleet Manager or Vehicle Management Superintendent will notify the owning
     organization’s Vehicle Control Officer/Non-Commissioned Officer (VCO/VCNCO) of the
     vehicle damage/reimbursable costs.
     2.3. If a GOV/E is involved in an accident with a privately owned vehicle (POV) and the
     POV is the liable party, vehicle maintenance control and analysis will coordinate with 436th
     Airlift Wing (AW) Legal (JA) office to obtain reimbursement from the liable POV operator
     and will provide requested assistance in the investigation of the accident and an estimate of
     repair costs. If the operator of the POV is uninsured, vehicle maintenance will repair the
     GOV/E at no cost to the owning/using organization and 436 AW/JA will pursue
     reimbursement from that individual.
     2.4. If the operator of a GOV/E is the negligent party in an accident with a POV, that
     individual’s organization is responsible for reimbursement of repair costs for the GOV/E.
     The negligent party’s CC will determine whether a report of survey is appropriate. The 436
     AW/JA will resolve the POV liability issue.
     2.5. If the operator of a GOV/E is the negligent party in an accident with another GOV/E,
     that individual’s organization is responsible for reimbursement of repair costs for all GOV/Es
     damaged in the accident. The negligent party’s CC will determine whether a report of survey
     is appropriate.
3. Procedures.
     3.1. 436 LRS/LGRV will:
        3.1.1. Notify the 436 LRS/CC and the owning/responsible organization’s CC and
        VCO/VCNCO by letter (Attachment 3), accompanied by a copy of the repair estimate
        work order and digital photographs.
        3.1.2. Repair vehicle upon receipt of Letter of Release/Acceptance of Financial
        Responsibility (Attachment 4) from owning/responsible organization.
        3.1.3. Perform vehicle repairs by the most economical means.
        3.1.4. Maintain accident/abuse case files for at least one year to track quantity and repair
        cost data.
DOVERAFBI23-301 4 NOVEMBER 2011                                                             3


     3.1.5. Provide AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Repairable Value Statement, when
     requested by the owning/using organization.
     3.1.6. Track and provide the reimbursable costs to the 436th Comptroller Squadron
     (CPTS), Accounting and Finance Flight (FMF), monthly.
  3.2. Owning/Responsible organization will:
     3.2.1. Reimburse 436 LRS/LGRV for all vehicle parts and/or contract repair costs of
     vehicles damaged by personnel assigned to their organization.
     3.2.2. Ensure a viable vehicle accident prevention program is part of the organization’s
     safety program. Attachment 5 provides safe driving guidelines for an effective vehicle
     accident prevention program.
     3.2.3. Initiate report of survey as required IAW AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for
     Air Force Property, 1 July 1996. Investigate all damage not attributable to fair wear and
     tear IAW AFMAN 23-220.
     3.2.4. Report all vehicle damage to 436 LRS/LGRV within 24 hours.
     3.2.5. Forward a copy of the Letter of Release/Acceptance of Financial Responsibility
     when vehicle is no longer needed for investigation (within 5 days).
  3.3. 436 CPTS/FMF will transfer O&M funds from the appropriate owning/responsible
  organization’s account into 436 LRS/LGRV O&M account when notified by 436
  LRS/LGRV.
  3.4. 436 AW/JA will investigate the accident or abuse and assert a Government Claim
  against the liable party only when the accident involves a POV. The 436 AW/JA will also
  encourage the liable POV operator to permit his or her insurance carrier to choose a repair
  firm and pay for fixing the damage, and will ensure that the repairs are acceptable to the
  accountable property officer. If the POV operator is uninsured or chooses not to involve his
  or her insurance company in the matter, 436 AW/JA will take appropriate action against the
  liable party.
  3.5. If an organization's CC thinks the GOV/E accident/abuse case is not justified, written
  justification must be forwarded to the 436 LRS/CC. If the 436 LRS/CC agrees, the case will
  be dropped. If the 436 LRS/CC does not agree, the case will be forwarded to 436 Mission
  Support Group (MSG)/CC for decision. 436th Airlift Wing Commander will resolve all
  conflicts concerning the vehicle accident and abuse program and serve as the final decision
  authority.




                                          MARK D. CAMERER, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander, 436th Airlift Wing
 4                                              DOVERAFBI23-301 4 NOVEMBER 2011


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management, 29 October 2007
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, 1 July 1996
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
HQ USAF PAD 08-01, Global Wing Structure, 12 May 2009
Prescribed Forms: None
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Repairable Value Statement, 11 March 2003

Abbreviations
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AW—Airlift Wing
CC—Commander
CPTS—Comptroller Squadron
DAFB—Dover Air Force Base
DAFBI—Dover Air Force Base Instruction
E—Equipment
FMF—Accounting and Finance Flight
GOV—Government Owned Vehicle
GPC—Government Purchase Card
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
IMT—Information Management Tool
JA—Legal
LGRV—Vehicle Management
LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron
MSG—Mission Support Group
DOVERAFBI23-301 4 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                5


OLVIMS—On-Line Interactive Vehicle Management System
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PAD—Program Action Directive
POV—Privately Owned Vehicle
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TWCF—Transportation Working Capital Fund
USAF—United States Air Force
VCO—Vehicle Control Officer
VCNCO—Vehicle Control Non-Commissioned Officer

Terms
Fair Wear and Tear— The normal expected deterioration of a vehicle or equipment based on
its age, usage and life expectancy.
Vehicle Accident— Any incident where a GOV/E strikes or is struck by another GOV/E, non-
GOV/E, and/or object, structure or animal where action by any vehicle operator involved could
have prevented the outcome.
Vehicle Incident— Any situation where a GOV/E sustains damage where the actions of any
vehicle operator involved could not have prevented the outcome (i.e., act of nature).
Vehicle Abuse— An act or omission that results in damage caused by neglect or willful acts of
improper operation or care that cannot be attributable to fair wear and tear. When accident
repairs are required as a result of collision, in some instances, damage can be categorized as
vehicle abuse or incident. Usually, damage not attributable to fair wear and tear or accidents is
characterized abuse. Some examples of vehicle abuse are listed in Attachment 2.
Owning Organization— An organization is the owning organization of all vehicles and
equipment that are assigned to that organization by the 436 LRS/LGRV at the time of the
accident, incident, or abuse.
Responsible Organization— An organization is the responsible organization when vehicle
accident or abuse damage is caused by personnel assigned to the organization. The responsible
organization may not necessarily be the owning organization. For example, an organization
using vehicles owned by another organization is responsible for accident or abuse damage
caused by personnel assigned to the unit.
 6                                                    DOVERAFBI23-301 4 NOVEMBER 2011


                                           Attachment 2
                               EXAMPLES OF VEHICLE ABUSE

A2.1. Vehicle abuse reimbursement action will be initiated for vehicle/equipment damage
or failure resulting from:
     A2.1.1. Tampering with governors or distributors.
     A2.1.2. Operating vehicles with insufficient oils or coolants because of failure to check
     levels according to established requirements or failure to monitor dash instrumentation.
     A2.1.3. Operating vehicle with applied/dragging parking brakes.
     A2.1.4. Improper distribution of or failure to secure loads properly in cargo area of vehicle
     or not following established loading/unloading procedures.
     A2.1.5. Using a vehicle for other than its intended or designed purpose (e.g., 6,000 forklift
     used to transport a 10,000 pound pallet).
     A2.1.6. Failure to clean/maintain vehicle’s interior/exterior to meet corrosion control and
     appearance requirements.
     A2.1.7. Unauthorized wiring, marking, modification of, or added special equipment in or on
     vehicles.
     A2.1.8. Operating a vehicle with tires that are under inflated, over inflated, or otherwise not
     IAW the manufacturers recommendations.
     A2.1.9. Vehicle being operated by an unqualified/untrained operator.
     A2.1.10. Tire wear beyond re-capable limits (i.e., cord exposed).
     A2.1.11. Intentional destruction/disfigurement of vehicle interior/exterior.
     A2.1.12. Operation of a vehicle/equipment in a manner contrary to published Department of
     Defense, Air Force Occupational Safety and Health, Occupational Safety and Health
     Administration, Air Force Regulations/Instructions/Manuals/Technical Orders or Delaware
     law concerning vehicle safety.
     A2.1.13. Failure to retract or protect hydraulic cylinder rams from pitting/corroding when
     not being used.
     A2.1.14. Servicing the fuel tank, hydraulic, and other fluid reservoirs with incorrect fluid.
     A2.1.15. Damage resulting from the operator or passenger failing to secure doors while
     opening or closing them in windy conditions.
A2.2. Other situations where vehicle abuse action may be initiated:
     A2.2.1. Failure to report malfunctions/defects or damage to vehicle maintenance within 24
     hours. A pre-approved delay of this action to satisfy immediate mission needs may be
     authorized by the Vehicle Fleet Manager or Vehicle Management Superintendent.
     A2.2.2. Failure to bring a vehicle/equipment to Vehicle Management for scheduled
     preventive maintenance before an overdue condition exists.
     A2.2.3. Corrosion or oxidation caused by insufficient waxing or operator care.
DOVERAFBI23-301 4 NOVEMBER 2011                            7


                                     Attachment 3
               SAMPLE ACCIDENT/ABUSE NOTIFICATION LETTER

Figure A3.1. Sample Accident/Abuse Notification Letter
 8                                             DOVERAFBI23-301 4 NOVEMBER 2011


                                     Attachment 4
SAMPLE LETTER OF RELEASE/ACCEPTANCE OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

Figure A4.1. Sample Letter of Release and Acceptance of Financial Responsibility
DOVERAFBI23-301 4 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                   9


                                         Attachment 5
                               SAFE DRIVING GUIDELINES

A5.1. The goal of a vehicle accident prevention program is to reduce the number and
severity of vehicle accidents. All units should ensure a viable vehicle accident prevention
program is part of the unit’s safety program. One way to accomplish this is by incorporating
driver safety into your weekly safety briefings. Note: There are six main areas that should be
stressed (A5.2. through A5.7.).
A5.2. Regular vehicle inspections (at least weekly, or more frequently as needed).
   A5.2.1. Tires (check tire pressure and visually check for damage/abnormalities).
   A5.2.2. Lights (visually check for proper operation).
   A5.2.3. Leaks (visually check for fuel/brake/oil/coolant leaks).
   A5.2.4. Engine oil and coolant (visually check levels).
   A5.2.5. Battery (visually check fluid level, cleanliness, security of hold-down).
   A5.2.6. Drive belts (visually check for fraying or cracking).
   A5.2.7. Safety devices (functionally check operation of seat belts, headrests, and warning
   lights).
   A5.2.8. Instrument, horn, and windshield wipers (functionally check for operation).
   A5.2.9. Brake and steering (functionally check responsiveness and effectiveness).
   A5.2.10. Note any unusual           occurrences    such    as   noise,   odor,      and   erratic
   instruments/operation.
A5.3. Safe driving cushion between vehicles.
   A5.3.1. Use the 2-second rule during normal driving conditions and more during inclement
   weather.
   A5.3.2. Never over-drive the distance lit by your headlights.
   A5.3.3. Signal your intentions at least 100 feet ahead of intersections (not signaling your
   intentions well in advance causes other drivers to make last minute/panic decisions).
   A5.3.4. Exercise caution anytime that you are backing a vehicle, use spotters when you
   cannot see.
   A5.3.5. Use mirrors to monitor your surroundings (if you cannot see, use a spotter).
   A5.3.6. Ensure you have adequate clearance around vehicles, especially when operating
   over-sized vehicles or towing equipment (larger vehicles need a larger area to maneuver).
A5.4. Expecting the unexpected.
   A5.4.1. Be constantly aware of surroundings and watch for other vehicles (you not only have
   to deal with decisions that you make, but the decisions of other drivers as well).
   A5.4.2. Be attentive to situations that may come up while driving (you are not the only
   driver on the road).
 10                                                 DOVERAFBI23-301 4 NOVEMBER 2011


   A5.4.3. Always drive defensively and expect other drivers to do something unexpected.
   A5.4.4. Be extra cautious when approaching major roadways, intersections, and areas where
   vehicles are entering and exiting the roadway (high traffic areas pose a greater risk to all
   drivers).
   A5.4.5. Do not become complacent in familiar areas (most accidents happen within 50 miles
   of your home; knowing the area is not an excuse for not paying attention to your
   surroundings).
A5.5. Weather and road conditions.
   A5.5.1. Changing weather conditions can degrade road conditions in a matter of seconds.
   A5.5.2. Road surfaces can have damaged areas, be prepared for them.
   A5.5.3. Use extra time to drive safely during inclement weather conditions and when
   roadways are damaged or are under construction.
A5.6. Rules of the road.
   A5.6.1. Pay attention to traffic signs and obey them (traffic signs give drivers information to
   prepare for situations on the road ahead).
   A5.6.2. Follow posted speed limits (speed limits are set for a reason).
   A5.6.3. Follow directional arrows in parking lots (arrows are used in parking lots to control
   the flow of traffic and to make things safer for everyone).
A5.7. Use of seat belts. Seat belt use is MANDATORY for all drivers and passengers.
A5.8. Following these tips will greatly reduce the likelihood of being involved in an
accident. Also, remember that fatigued drivers are more likely to be involved in an accident.
Get the rest that you need. Driving tired has the same effect as driving under the influence of
alcohol; your reaction times increase making it more difficult to cope with incidents on the road.
