BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                      DOVER AIR FORCE BASE
436 AIRLIFT WING                                                  INSTRUCTION 34-103

                                                                               9 JULY 2012

                                                                                    Services

                                                              PRIME KNIGHT PROGRAM




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 436 AW/CP                                                     Certified by: 436 AW/DS
                                                                      (Lt Col Jon Fullerton)
                                                                                     Pages: 6
Supersedes:   DOVERAFBI 34-103,
              19 March 2004


This instruction implements the 436th Airlift Wing Commander’s policy for Prime Knight
Services to transient aircrews traveling through Dover AFB and supplements Air Force
Instruction 34-246_AMC Sup_1, Air Force Lodging Program. In no case will the procedures
outlined in this instruction take precedence over AFI 34-246, AMC Sup 1. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained In
Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.       Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
provides additional information about the Dover AFB Prime Knight program; more clearly
identifies the responsibilities of the Squadrons/Organizations tasked to support transient
aircrews; and added Attachment 1: Glossary of References and Supporting Information.
 2                                                          DOVERAFBI34-103 9 JULY 2012


1. Overview.
     1.1. Prime Knight is an all-encompassing activity for 436th Airlift Wing units and is
     intended to maximize the mission readiness and effectiveness of transient aircrews at Dover
     AFB. The consolidated efforts of Command Post, transportation, food services, lodging, and
     airfield management are critical to ensuring total mission support.
     1.2. Prime Knight Support is a mandatory service for all transient aircrews at Dover AFB.
     The active involvement of all supporting commanders and their staffs are critical to ensuring
     the success of this program.
     1.3. The 436 Airlift Wing Command Post is the lead agency for the Prime Knight program at
     Dover AFB, and will coordinate with the Maintenance Group, Operations Group, and
     Mission Support Group as needed to provide necessary assistance for transient crews from
     arrival through departure. The Chief of the Command Post will serve as the Prime Knight
     Program Manager for Dover AFB and the appropriate Group Commander will ensure a
     Prime Knight point of contact (POC) is provided for transportation, food services, lodging,
     and airfield management as a minimum. Each group is also responsible for ensuring their
     staffs are familiar with this instruction and organized to enhance Prime Knight Support.
     1.4. The 436 AW Command Post will develop and maintain a base instruction outlining the
     Prime Knight Program and its implementation.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. Group Prime Knight POCs:
        2.1.1. A Prime Knight Aircrew Brochure will be generated, maintained, and provided to
        the transient aircrews by the Command Post. The appropriate group POC is responsible
        for ensuring their portion of the Prime Knight Aircrew Brochure is complete and
        accurate. Discrepancies/ changes should be forwarded to the Command Post Prime
        Knight Manager/Command Post Duty Officer as quickly as possible to ensure timely
        updates are made.
     2.2. 436 AW Command Post:
        2.2.1. The Command Post will provide all transient aircrews with a Prime Knight
        Aircrew Brochure which outlines local procedures, Prime Knight services, commonly
        used phone numbers, lodging/mess options, and other applicable information.
        2.2.2. To help ensure a high quality Prime Knight Program, the CP will develop and
        maintain a feedback and metrics-tracking program to facilitate analysis, review, and
        modification by 436th Airlift Wing leadership.
        2.2.3. The Command Post will forward copies of aircrew orders to billeting upon receipt
        from GDSS2 or the crew. If crew orders are not in GDSS2 or provided to the CP, the
        crew orders will be provided to billeting by the crew during check-in.
        2.2.4. U-Drive-It (UDI) vehicles: UDIs will be provided to the Command Post by the
        Logistics Readiness Squadron for the sole purpose of transient aircrew utilization. The
        Command Post will be responsible for all control and maintenance of the UDIs.
        2.2.5. Crews will contact the Command Post after arriving for crew alert information, to
        obtain a UDI, and to provide the Command Post with a contact number for crew alert.
DOVERAFBI34-103 9 JULY 2012                                                                 3


     2.2.6. A Prime Knight survey will be provided to all transient aircrew either with the
     vehicle or with mission setup information. The Prime Knight survey will be generated,
     maintained, and distributed by the Command Post.
     2.2.7. At alert time, the Command Post will inform the aircraft commander of mission
     details and arrange for transportation pickup if a U-Drive-It (UDI) vehicle was not
     available. The Command Post will follow the standard operating procedures for
     departing aircrews. If the crew is alerted through a stage, stage personnel will fulfill
     these responsibilities.
  2.3. 436 Logistics Readiness Squadron:
     2.3.1. Vehicle Dispatch will provide a crew bus to meet all transient aircrews as soon as
     possible (normally within 10 minutes of block time) for transport to Base Operations.
     The Command Post will notify Vehicle Dispatch of the arrival time and parking location
     of all transient arrivals.
     2.3.2. Fleet Management will provide 5 UDI vans to the Command Post for the sole use
     of Prime Knight transient aircrews.
         2.3.2.1. If a Prime Knight UDI is not available for the transient aircrew, the
         Command Post will coordinate with Vehicle Dispatch to arrange for service for the
         transient aircrew to/from the crew’s billeting location and to/from on-base dining
         facilities/commissary. Crew transportation, will also provide transportation to base
         operations, armory, in-flight kitchen, and the flightline as required.
  2.4. 436 Force Support Squadron:
     2.4.1. Food Services:
         2.4.1.1. Aircrews will be provided 24-hour in-flight meal support.
         2.4.1.2. In-flight meal menus will be made available for transient crew use in Base
         Operations (Airfield Management (AM) Ops).
         2.4.1.3. FSS personnel will pick up money collected for in-flight meals from AM
         Ops as required.
         2.4.1.4. The FSS will advise AM Ops of changes to the menus as soon as these
         changes become effective. The changes will not go into effect until updated menus
         are provided for crew use.
     2.4.2. Lodging Services:
         2.4.2.1. Assign rooms on base or arrange for contract quarters for all transient
         aircrews. Lodging will assign aircrew members into quarters appropriate for grade.
         To the maximum extent possible, assign aircrews to the same building when using on
         base facilities.
         2.4.2.2. The Billeting Office will coordinate with the Command Post on a regular
         basis to ensure lodging requirements are known and to prearrange accommodations in
         a timely manner. During periods of increased operations tempo, more frequent
         contact with the Command Post is essential for updating arrival information.
 4                                                           DOVERAFBI34-103 9 JULY 2012


            2.4.2.3. Establish express check-in/check-out procedures for aircrews and integrate
            them into office Standard Operating Procedures. These aircrew actions should be
            incorporated into the Prime Knight brochure and briefed to the aircraft commander
            upon arrival at lodging.
     2.5. 436 Operations Support Squadron:
        2.5.1. Airfield Management will collect in-flight meal orders and money for departing
        aircrews using established procedures.
        2.5.2. Departing aircrews should be reminded to fill out a Prime Knight Survey form and
        leave it in a drop box located inside base operations.
        2.5.3. Airfield Management personnel should advise Command Post, services agencies,
        and transportation of potential issues or other mission impacting information as they learn
        of them through their interaction with the aircrews.
3. Measurement and Analysis.
     3.1. The central collection point of completed Prime Knight Surveys will be in base
     operations. All agencies receiving completed original surveys are required to turn them into
     AM Ops or the Command Post within one duty day from receipt to help ensure a timely
     response and to correct identified deficiencies. The Command Post will collect the surveys
     from AM Ops as required (at least once a week).
     3.2. The Command Post Prime Knight Manager will:
        3.2.1. Develop and maintain the Dover AFB Prime Knight survey, ensure all transient
        aircrews are provided a copy of the survey and all surveys are collected.
        3.2.2. Chart/Track the survey results to help facilitate process improvements and to
        present trend information (and unsatisfactory ratings) to wing leadership.
        3.2.3. Report the survey items below the grade of satisfactory to the appropriate agency
        POCs for corrective action and comment within two duty days. Areas graded below
        satisfactory will include an explanation provided by the appointed agency POC
        identifying any additional information pertaining to the event/item and intended
        corrective action(s) if appropriate. The owning Group Commander should approve
        remarks before forwarding to the Wing Commander for review. All remarks for the
        previous month are due to the Command Post no later than the third duty day of the new
        month (i.e. coordinated May survey comments are due from Prime Knight POCs to the
        program manager no later than the third duty day in June). Unsatisfactory surveys
        received within one week of the report feedback due date can be slipped to the follow-on
        month to provide adequate time to research the situation and to develop a viable
        corrective action (if appropriate).
DOVERAFBI34-103 9 JULY 2012                                                                   5


  3.3. Corrective actions will be considered for all identified negative trends (not necessarily
  single/isolated events).




                                           MARK D. CAMERER, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander, 436th Airlift Wing
 6                                                        DOVERAFBI34-103 9 JULY 2012


                                           Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 8 November 2008
Prescribed Form
No Forms prescribed by this publication.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AM—Airfield Management
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AW—Airlift Wing
CP—Command Post
FSS—Force Support Squadron
GDSS—Global Decision Support System
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
UDI—U-Drive-It
