BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                           DOVER AIR FORCE BASE
436TH AIRLIFT WING                                                     INSTRUCTION 21-105

                                                                                   9 APRIL 2014

                                                                                    Maintenance

                                                         FOREIGN OBJECT DAMAGE (FOD)
                                                                PREVENTION PROGRAM


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 436 MXG/MXQA                                                     Certified by: 436 MXG/CC
                                                                  (Colonel Charles S. Nesemeier)
Supersedes:    DOVERAFBI21-105,                                                         Pages: 12
               8 March 2007


Dover Air Force Base Instruction (DAFBI) 21-105, Foreign Object Damage (FOD)
Prevention Program: This instruction outlines the procedures and responsibilities for the
Foreign Object Damage (FOD) prevention program. Compliance with this publication is
mandatory for all Dover AFB agencies traveling through, working in on or around, aircraft,
engines, munitions and Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE). Ensure that all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. The major
changes include: Paragraphs 2.1 changed to reflect good housekeeping practices, 2.2 proper use
of FOD containers and how they must be secured to flight line vehicles, 2.3 guidance on when
FOD walks will be conducted, 2.4 include Air Crew responsibilities, 2.5 ensuring flight station is
free from FOD prior to crew arrival, 2.6 encompasses accounting for loose clothing and personal
items, 2.7 information and how to report unsatisfactory airfield conditions, 2.12 ensuring all
AGE is free from FOD upon work completion, 2.13 instruction for entering engine inlets, and
 2                                                           DOVERAFBI21-105 9 APRIL 2014


2.14 FOD responsibilities. In addition, C-5M and C-17 blade blending worksheets has been
added to the Instruction.
1. FOD PREVENTION COMMITTEE/SQUADRON FOD PREVENTION MONITORS:
     1.1. The FOD Prevention Committee will meet quarterly, or as directed by the 436 AW/CV.
     The committee meetings will take place in the 436 AW headquarters conference room in
     building 201. The specific dates and times of the committee meetings will be announced in
     advance. The primary and alternate FOD Prevention Monitors will be appointed by their
     squadron commanders (Name, grade, office symbol and duty extension of these committee
     representatives will be forwarded to the 436 MXG/MXQA, FOD Prevention Monitor, in the
     form of an appointment letter and updated yearly, or as necessary.). Squadron FOD
     Monitors will attend the FOD Prevention Committee meetings, consolidate monthly FOD
     data and forward it to the 436 MXG/MXQA within five working days from the first of each
     month. The data will include tire changes due to FOD and lost tools.
2. FOD PREVENTION:
     2.1. Personnel performing any type of activity, support function, operation or maintenance
     action in, on, or around aircraft, munitions, AGE, CTK/support equipment, Aerial Port
     Squadron or components thereof shall practice good housekeeping and ensure all trash, loose
     hardware, tools, and other foreign objects are removed when the activity is complete. Parts
     bags will be utilized for all loose hardware. All serviceable work order residue will be
     returned to supply or the unit’s bench stock IAW AFI 21-101 AMCSUP- 1.
     2.2. All vehicles frequenting the flight line will be equipped with FOD containers and will
     be emptied at the end of each shift. FOD containers will be stenciled with the word “FOD”
     in contrasting letters and will be two inches or larger, have a lid, and be secured to the
     vehicle. Staff vehicles and vehicles that do not transit the flight line on a regular basis are
     not required to be equipped with FOD containers.
     2.3. Police all aircraft parking spots (Attachment 3) for foreign objects and debris prior to
     aircraft block-in and after aircraft block-out. Prior to towing an aircraft from a hangar or a
     parking spot, the aircraft tow supervisor will ensure that the tow path is clear of foreign
     objects/debris and the hangar/parking spot being towed to is also clear of foreign objects.
     2.4. Aircrew and load crew members must account for all equipment and personal items
     including any government issued items after each loading/flight operation. Any items lost
     must be annotated in the aircraft Air Force Technical Order (AFTO) Form 781A,
     Maintenance Discrepancy and Work.
     2.5. Prior to flight crew arrival, maintenance personnel will ensure the flight deck is clean of
     all maintenance debris and foreign objects.
     2.6. All personnel working on the aircraft, engine, AGE, munitions, loading and unloading
     of cargo or components in an industrial maintenance area will ensure all loose items of
     clothing (scarves, baseball caps, etc) are accounted for. Hairpieces, metal hair fasteners,
     earrings or jewelry that may fall off without notice are not authorized on the flight line.
     Personal items such as cell phones, beepers or other electronic devices will be the
     responsibility of the individual and will be accounted for.
DOVERAFBI21-105 9 APRIL 2014                                                                  3


  2.7. Deteriorating airfield surfaces will be reported to the airfield manager. The airfield
  manager can be reached at Airfield Management Operations, DSN 445-4183.
  2.8. Tool accountability checks will be performed at the end of each maintenance activity
  and prior to any aircraft engine start, ground maintenance run and aircraft launch.
  2.9. The flight line is a no hat area for military personnel. However, “Civilian employees
  are authorized to wear hats on the flight line when exposure to the sun presents a health
  concern.”(DAFBI 13-202 Dated 6 Jan 2007 Par. 5.9.2.1)
  2.10. Flight line badges and passes must be worn on the outer most article of clothing,
  between the waist and neck area in full view when in restricted areas. Badges and passes will
  be removed to enter aircraft engine inlets and exhausts but must be displayed properly after
  the task.
  2.11. Squadrons that manage or use aircraft hangars/flight line facilities must keep the
  facilities free of foreign objects, and police up the area upon exit and completion of
  maintenance.
  2.12. All oil cans, absorbent pads, and any other type of foreign objects will not be left on
  the aircraft or AGE.
  2.13. All maintenance and/or inspection activities requiring personnel to enter an engine
  inlet will require the use of protective rubber matting and pocketless coveralls. In addition
  the clothing pockets must be emptied and any jewelry will be removed before putting on the
  coveralls. The coveralls will be worn on the outer most layer of clothing. The coveralls will
  be worn completely and not tied off at the waist.
  2.14. FOD prevention at DAFB is everyone’s responsibility.
3. FOD INVESTIGATIONS AND REPORTING:
  3.1. When FOD has occurred or is suspected on an aircraft, aircraft tires, or aircraft engine,
  the following procedures will apply: The affected maintenance squadron will contact
  436/512 MXG/MXQA at DSN 445-5379 and the Maintenance Operations Center (MOC),
  DSN 445-5436, within one hour of discovery. A job control number will be obtained from
  MOC and the discrepancy will be entered into the aircraft forms. The 436/512 MXG/MXQA
  section will initiate the FOD incident/investigation and prepare a detailed report and send it
  to the 436/512 MXG/CC for further disposition. Squadrons may be tasked to provide
  assistance to 436/512 MXG/MXQA during investigations.
  3.2. When Jet Engine Blade Blending is required: The Wing FOD Monitor must be notified
  when FOD induced blade blending requirements are identified and performed, other than for
  minor sand nicks or scratches. After an engine blade blend has been accomplished the
  technician will fill out the digital Blade Blending/FOD Damage worksheet (see attachment 4
  and 5 for C5-M aircraft and 6 and 7 for C-17 aircraft) or applicable form. The form will
  contain the following information: engine serial number, stage number, number of blades
  blended, depth of damage before and after blend, area of damage and employee
  number/stamp number of maintenance personnel.
4                                                        DOVERAFBI21-105 9 APRIL 2014


4. FOD WALKS, FOD BOSS AND SWEEPERS:
    4.1. Maintenance Squadrons and APS will perform weekly FOD walks every Monday to
    remove FO. In addition, Maintenance Squadrons will use the FOD Boss/sweeper no later
    than Thursday in their area of responsibility. The Squadron’s areas of responsibility are
    outlined in Attachment 2. Only the squadron’s Maintenance Officer or Superintendent will
    make the final determination to cancel and reschedule the FOD walks/sweeps due to
    inclement weather and mission requirements.
       4.1.1. FOD prevention walks and sweeps on the South Ramp, Hazardous Cargo,
       Christmas tree and Compass Rose areas are conducted on an as-needed basis. The FOD
       walk/sweep will include the entire aircraft movement path within these areas.
       4.1.2. 436/512 CES- Temco Ramp Sweepers. All ramp sweeper operations will be
       controlled by Airfield Management Operations and will follow the established sweeper
       schedule. Production superintendents will contact MOCC to coordinate unscheduled
       sweeper requirements.
5. DEPLOYED LOCATIONS:
    5.1. Deployed units will follow all host base FOD regulations to include FOD walk
    frequency. If a host base program does not exist, units will follow Dover AFBI 21-105. The
    deployed Commander will determine the FOD walk frequency based on the completion of a
    ramp survey. The FOD walks will be conducted at a minimum of once a week. In addition,
    rollover tire FOD checks will be conducted when entering the flight line/ramp area.
6. FOD RECOGNITION PROGRAMS:
    6.1. The Golden Bolt will be placed on the flight line periodically during the weekly FOD
    walks. When the Golden Bolt is found, the individual that found the bolt will be recognized
    at the Quarterly FOD Prevention Committee Meeting that is chaired by the WG/CV. The
    winner will receive a one day pass from the 436/512 MXG/CC. All passes awarded pursuant
    to this program will be issued and used IAW AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program.
    6.2. The FOD poster design contest will be conducted quarterly by the Wing FOD monitor.
    The submissions for the contest must be turned in to the 436 MXG/QA section by the 2nd
    month of the quarter to allow time for review and printing.
       6.2.1. The winner will be notified and receive a one day pass from the 436 MXG/CC at
       the Quarterly FOD Prevention Committee Meeting. All passes awarded pursuant to this
       program will be issued and used IAW AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program.
       6.2.2. The FOD posters will be placed in a prominent place in each squadron to remind
       everyone of the importance of FOD prevention.
       6.2.3. These programs provide valuable FOD program exposure increasing awareness
       and decreasing potential damage.




                                            RICHARD G. MOORE, Jr., Col, USAF
                                            Commander, 436th Airlift Wing
DOVERAFBI21-105 9 APRIL 2014                                                           5


                                           Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-101, Aerospace and Equipment Maintenance Management, 19 April 2013
AFI 21-101, AMC SUP 1, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 14 February 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DOVERAFBI 13-202, Dover Airfield Driving Instruction, 5 August 2009
TO 00-20-1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance General Policies and Procedures, 15 June 2013
Prescribed Forms
No forms prescribed by this instruction.
Adopted Forms
AFTO Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFTO—Air Force Technical Order
AGE—Aerospace Ground Equipment
AW—Airlift Wing
AMXS—Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
AOR—Area of Responsibility
CC—Commander
CES—Civil Engineer Squadron
CTK—Composite Tool Kit
CV—Vice Commander
DAFB—Dover Air Force Base
DAFBI—Dover Air Force Base Instruction
DSN—Defense Switched Network
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
IAW—In Accordance With
JCN—Job Control Number
JEIM—Jet Engine Intermediate Maintenance Shop
 6                                         DOVERAFBI21-105 9 APRIL 2014


MIL—Master Inventory List
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
MOS—Maintenance Operations Squadron
MXG—Maintenance Group
MXS—Maintenance Squadron
MXQA—Maintenance Group Quality Assurance
OI—Operating Instruction
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
QA—Quality Assurance
S/N—Serial Number
SSN—Social Security Number
TBD—To Be Determined
TO—Technical Order
USAF—United States Air Force
WWID—World Wide Identifier
DOVERAFBI21-105 9 APRIL 2014                             7


                                     Attachment 2
                               AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY
8                                     DOVERAFBI21-105 9 APRIL 2014



                       Attachment 3
    AREA WITHIN RED BOX DEFINES AIRCRAFT PARKING SPOT
DOVERAFBI21-105 9 APRIL 2014                              9


                               Attachment 4
          C-5M BLADE BLENDING WORKSHEET (DOVER AFB, DE)
 10                                                        DOVERAFBI21-105 9 APRIL 2014


                                          Attachment 5
  INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILLING OUT C-5M DIGITAL BLEND BLENDING SHEET


1. Ensure the form is a word document

2. Fill in applicable aircraft information to include Aircraft S/N, Engine S/N, blade Number,
stage number, JCN, date corrected, INSP by, Prior to Blending: Depth of damage, Width of
damage, After Blending: Depth of blend(s), Width of blend(s) and notes if applicable.

3. Go to insert tab and select shapes.

4. Select block arrows choose the right or left arrow

5. Move mouse in the location of the bland on the blade

6. Click and drag the mouse to input the arrow

7. Change color of arrow to red by right clicking over the placed arrow.

           -It may be necessary to orient the arrow, to accomplish this click on the placed arrow
           and move mouse over green dot. Click and hold the right mouse button and rotate as
           necessary.

8. After completing steps 1 thru 7 email word document to Wing FOD monitor located in 436
MXG/QA, shop Lead and appropriate engine manager for input on to AFTO Form 95.
DOVERAFBI21-105 9 APRIL 2014                              11


                               Attachment 6
          C-17 BLADE BLENDING WORKSHEET (DOVER AFB, DE)
 12                                                        DOVERAFBI21-105 9 APRIL 2014


                                          Attachment 7
   INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILLING OUT C-17 DIGITAL BLEND BLENDING SHEET

1. Ensure the form is a word document

2. Fill in applicable aircraft information to include Aircraft S/N, Engine S/N, blade Number,
stage number, JCN, date corrected, INSP by, Prior to Blending: Depth of damage, Width of
damage, After Blending: Depth of blend(s), Width of blend(s) and notes if applicable.

3. Go to insert tab and select shapes.

4. Select block arrows choose the right or left arrow

5. Move mouse in the location of the bland on the blade

6. Click and drag the mouse to input the arrow

7. Change color of arrow to red by right clicking over the placed arrow.

           -It may be necessary to orient the arrow, to accomplish this click on the placed arrow
           and move mouse over green dot. Click and hold the right mouse button and rotate as
           necessary.

8. After completing steps 1 thru 7 email word document to Wing FOD monitor located in 436
MXG/QA, shop Lead and appropriate engine manager for input on to AFTO Form 95.
