                           DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                               HEADQUARTERS 7TH BOMB WING
                                DYESS AIR FORCE BASE TEXAS




                                                                       DYESSAFBGM2014-31-01

                                                                                   8 October 2014


MEMORANDUM FOR ALL DYESS PERSONNEL

FROM: 7 BW/CC

SUBJECT: Cell Phone Utilization While Driving Strictly Prohibited

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

        1. By Order of the 7th Bomb Wing Commander, this Guidance Memorandum
immediately implements enforcement policies outlined in Army Regulation (AR) 190-5/OPNAV
11200.5D/AFI 31-218(I)/MCO 5110.1D/DLAR 5720.1, Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision,
dated 22 May 2006. This Memorandum applies to all personnel in or on motor vehicles and
other motorized transportation devices on this installation, including United States Air Force
Reserve (USAFR) and Air National Guard (ANG) on Federal Service, and foreign students. It
applies to active duty members, Department of the Air Force (DAF) civilians or any other
personnel assigned to, attached to, or supported by Dyess AFB. Compliance with this
Memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its directions are inconsistent with other Air Force
publications, the information herein prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and
Forms Management. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS). Contact supporting records managers as required. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

        2. This guidance memorandum provides interim guidance pertaining to the proper use
and enforcement of policies governing talking on cellular telephones while operating a motor
vehicle on Dyess AFB. Vehicle operators on a DoD installation and operators of government-
owned vehicles will not use cell phones unless the vehicle is safely parked or unless they are
using a blue tooth or other wireless, hands-free device. Users will use an ear piece in one ear
only.

       3. The wearing of any portable headphones, earphones, or other listening devices while
operating a motor vehicle is prohibited. Use of those devices impairs driving and masks or
prevents recognition of emergency signals, alarms, announcements, the approach of vehicles and
human speech.


                                 Global Power for America
        4. Failure to adhere to the guidance in this Memorandum may result in the issuance of a
citation by 7th Security Forces (7 SFS) personnel via a DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic
Ticket. A single citation for a cell phone violation will incur a three (3) point deduction to the
violator’s base driving record. After accruing 6 points, a letter will be sent to the sponsor’s
commander; upon accruing 12 points in 1 year or 18 points in 2 years, a base driving suspension
will be issued.

         5. This Memorandum becomes void after 1 year has elapsed from the date of this
Memorandum, or upon release of a base publication incorporating the guidance, whichever is
earlier.




                                                     MICHAEL BOB STARR, Col, USAF
                                                     Commander
