BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE
EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE                                                 INSTRUCTION 16-501

                                                                            17 SEPTEMBER 2014

                                                                                Operations Support

                                                  412TH TEST WING CAPABILITIES-BASED
                                                         FINANCIAL PLANNING PROCESS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 412 TW/XP                                                            Certified by: 412 TW/XP
                                                                            (Mr. Rupert W. Grahn)

                                                                                           Pages: 14



This publication implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 16-501, Control and Documentation of
Air Force Programs. The primary objective of the planning process is to link capabilities-based
planning to execution tracking using the Capability Analysis and Risk Assessment (CARA)
process. The CARA process identifies 412th Test Wing (TW) capabilities, requirements and
costs to deliver the capabilities, risks associated with delivering the capabilities, and information
needed to make decisions that optimize the capabilities and minimize risk. This Capability based
process integrates planning for all Test & Evaluation (T&E) and Operation & Maintenance
(O&M) TW organizations, regardless of funding source. TW planning will not include
requirements for O&M program elements that are centrally managed at the AFMC functional
level. This instruction is applicable to all TW personnel who plan, manage, and/or execute tasks,
projects, or programs. This instruction may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements
that directly implement this publication must be routed to the OPR for coordination prior to
certification and approval. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. This
instruction does not require tiers at or below the Wing level.
 2                                              EDWARDSAFBI16-501 17 SEPTEMBER 2014


1. Responsibility and Authority
     1.1. The Wing Commander, supported by the Group Commanders/Directors and Wing Staff
     Agencies (WSA) (referred to as the TW Council), provides corporate guidance for
     capabilities-based planning; reviews and updates the GCRM; reviews and constrains the
     capability roadmaps; approves funding allocations in accordance with strategic direction;
     reviews and modifies the CARA Integrated Requirements List (IRL); and makes final
     resource allocation decisions.
     1.2. Test Wing Groups and their associated Capability Owners (COs) are responsible to the
     TW Commander for ensuring their capabilities meet current and future customer
     requirements; assessing the capability state defined in the GCRM; developing capability
     roadmaps that support the GCRM; meeting funding allocation targets; defending their
     requirements during the IRL review; identifying risks associated with delivering the
     capabilities; and recommending funding adjustments to minimize those risks. The COs are
     accountable to the Commander for executing to the plan.
        1.2.1. Capability stakeholders and functional organizations support the Capability
        Owners with requirements identification, cost estimates, capability analyses, risk
        assessments, and other CARA product development. This includes but is not limited to
        the development of workload (flying hours, engineering labor, etc.), maintenance,
        information technology, and investment requirements.
        1.2.2. Financial Managers support the COs with the financial elements of IRL
        requirements identification within their responsible work breakdown structures (WBS).
     1.3. The 412 TW Plans & Programs Office (412 TW/XP) facilitates the capabilities-based
     planning process for the Program Objective Memorandum (POM) and Financial Plan
     (FinPlan), working with the 412 TW Financial Management Office (412 TW/FM) and 412th
     Comptroller Squadron (CPTS). Along with the Groups and WSAs, this team identifies
     CARA data requirements; communicates/documents allocations for budget and offset targets;
     directs CARA team activities; collects, analyzes, and interprets CARA data; develops IRL
     iterations; and delivers CARA products for 412 TW Council and higher headquarters review
     and final use. 412 TW/XP also facilitates the development and TW Council review of the
     capability roadmaps by the Capability Owners. (Reference Figure 1.1)
     1.4. Financial Management & Comptroller Squadron (412 TW/FM & 412 CPTS) owns
     FinPlan and Execution year planning (ExPlan). They identify the available budget authority;
     allocate initial budget and offset funding targets; estimate fallout and reimbursable earnings;
     and ensure compliance with all financial rules and regulations as part of the IRL
     development. (Reference Figure 1.2)
EDWARDSAFBI16-501 17 SEPTEMBER 2014   3


Figure 1. CARA POM Process Flow




Figure 2. FinPlan Process Flow
 4                                              EDWARDSAFBI16-501 17 SEPTEMBER 2014


2. Planning Guidance
     2.1. Capability Roadmaps. Capability Owners develop roadmaps that define the path to
     achieve the capability status defined in the GCRM. Roadmaps compare 412 TW’s current
     capabilities with future requirements and identify the level of growth (gaps), sustainment or
     reduction required. Capability requirements are determined by examination of applicable
     strategic plans (AF, AFMC & AFTC), current and forecasted national needs, higher
     headquarters, AFTC Mission Area Plans and TW Council direction, customer requirements
     (as forecast in Test Resource Requirements (TRR) and Flight Actuals and Billing (FAAB)
     data), alternate facility status, and other factors that may influence TW capabilities.
        2.1.1. The Strategic Planning Branch of 412 TW/XP develops a template and timeline
        for Capability Roadmap development and facilitates an approval process through the TW
        Council. Once the roadmaps are constrained and approved by the TW Council, they are
        used as guidance to develop the workload IRL and to plan the Program Objective
        Memorandum (POM) inputs to higher headquarters.
        2.1.2. The Strategic Planning Branch of 412 TW/XP sets time-tables for the Systems
        Engineering Board (SEB) and TW Master Architects to assist the Capability Owners in
        the development, vetting, and incorporation of the capability roadmaps.
     2.2. Graduated Capability Readiness Matrix (GCRM). The TW Council uses the Capability
     Roadmaps as decision aids to populate the GCRM in order to identify the desired current and
     future status of all 412 TW capabilities. The GCRM is a spreadsheet containing the WBS
     used to define 412 TW capabilities along with the TW Council’s decision on how to resource
     the capability for the Future Year Defense Program (FYDP) timeframe. The information in
     the GCRM is used by the Groups to aid in building the IRLs. 412 TW/XP maintains the
     GCRM for the 412 TW and makes it available to the Groups. The 412 TW Council reviews
     the GCRM twice annually and the results are used to develop capability priorities and IRL
     funding levels.
3. CARA IRL Development
     3.1. Overview. The 412th Test Wing capabilities identify the requirements through the
     CARA process that the 412 TW plans to deliver for the fiscal year defense planning (FYDP)
     for POM (a five year look), of the next fiscal year for FinPlan and allocates the available
     resources necessary to deliver those capabilities with acceptable risk. The definitions for the
     levels of acceptable risk are defined in Figure 3.1. The definitions are typically used during
     the POM build process, but not during the FinPlan build process.
     3.2. Integrated Requirements List (IRL). Capability Owners input all DBA and RBA
     resource requirements for the budget year (for FinPlan) or through the FYDP (for POM)
     into an Integrated Requirements List. IRL data is input/broken down into a work breakdown
     structure (WBS) developed for each capability. Data includes a unique IRL number,
     capability supported, Group level organization, IRL title, scope, impact if not funded,
     program element codes, cost centers, element of expense/investment code, funding
     designator (fully funded, funded offset, unfunded, unfunded disconnect), and manpower
     estimates. For POM builds, the IRLs also include columns of information unique to AFMC’s
     Command Management System (CMS). The CMS defines categories of resources similar to
     the CARA funding designations, but uses the capability increment risk defined in Figure 3.1
EDWARDSAFBI16-501 17 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                            5


   as a reference. A funding designation crosswalk is also included in Figure 3.2. Manpower
   data includes the number of full time equivalents (FTEs), number of contractor man-year
   equivalents (CMEs), Officers, Enlisted and over hires (OHs). The TW Council uses the IRLs
   to adjust and optimize the allocation of resources.

Figure 3. Risk Assessment Model




      3.2.1. The 412 TW/FM maintains the IRL spreadsheet database and controls its
      configuration. 412 TW/FM will keep a copy of the IRL spreadsheet on a SharePoint
      server with read-only access so that government members of the 412 TW can review it at
      any time. The COs or their designated representatives may submit inputs or changes to
      the IRLs through 412 TW/FM. The 412 TW/FM will coordinate all changes through the
      412 TW/XP. Any stakeholder with inputs or changes must submit them through the
      appropriate CO. If resource requirements are not identified in the IRLs, they will not be
      considered for funding during the CARA process.
      3.2.2. As the capabilities analysis generates issues and concerns, a risk assessment is
      made that allows key field issues to be identified and addressed. The risk assessment is
      based on a modified systems engineering risk model, using probability of risk occurrence
      mapped against consequences of the risk for each key issue.
      3.2.3. The 412 TW/XP maintains the individual capability risk assessments developed by
      the capability owners for all areas. These briefings will be used during Test Wing internal
      deliberations and for test enterprise deliberations across the AF Test Center. 412TW/XP
      will also develop a Test Wing level risk assessment for TW/CC approval to be used for
      external budget deliberations.
   3.3. Building the IRL. Capability Owners and designated advocates will assemble
   stakeholder teams to assist in identifying capability requirements for the IRL. In addition to
6                                              EDWARDSAFBI16-501 17 SEPTEMBER 2014


    RDT&E (3600) and O&M (3400) funding, Improvement & Modernization (I&M), and
    Sustainment, Restoration & Modernization (SR&M) funding will be identified to their Total
    Operating Authority (TOA). Total Operating Authority (TOA) shall include Direct Budget
    Authority (DBA) and all Reimbursement Budget Authority (RBA), including pass-thru or
    non-critical RBA. Manpower inputs to IRLs must match the UMD provided by 412
    MSG/FSS via passcode and positions assigned.
    3.4. Resource Allocation and Offset Targets. 412 TW/XP, working with 412 TW/FM (for
    T&E funds) and 412 CPTS (for O&M funds) determine anticipated funding and offset
    allocations by Program Element Code (PEC) for distribution to the Capability Owners. The
    412 TW Council reviews and the Wing Commander approves the allocations prior to
    distribution. Methods of distributing the allocation and offset targets among the capabilities
    will vary from year to year but regardless of the distribution, the targets are considered to be
    a starting point subject to TW Council-directed adjustments. The level of offset will vary by
    PEC and current year circumstances.
    3.5. Constraining the IRL. Capability Owners analyze customers’ needs for the planning
    period and apply funding to the requirements. Funding is applied to each IRL with the goal
    of meeting mission and workload needs and minimizing risk given the available resources.
    The funding level for each IRL item is characterized using one of four possible funding
    designations from the IRL Crosswalk (Table 3.1): fully funded (FF), funded offset (FO),
    unfunded disconnect (UD), or unfunded (UF). Table 3.2 depicts the Unfunded Requirement
    definitions.The total of FF and FO requirements must not exceed the distributed funding
    allocation. The sum total of the FO requirements must meet the offset targets and the offsets
    must be executable and severable. The FO and UD IRLs are further characterized by
    prioritizing them per the codes in Table 3.1. It is expected that the offsets will have impact to
    the mission, and the impact must be communicated clearly in the IRL Impact if not Funded
    field. IRL items characterized as UD are those recommended for funding to the TW Council
    but should be lower priority than the least-dear funded requirement (FO or FF) in the same
    PEC. UF requirements are important to deliver a lower risk capability but may not be viable
    in tightly constrained budgets. The UF may also be candidates for “fall-out” funds from prior
    year execution and will be kept updated in the IRL listing by 412 TW/FM and 412 CPTS.
    The UD and UF IRLs can also be funded with fall-out funds during the year, so it is
    important to include all needs for all PECs.
EDWARDSAFBI16-501 17 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                            7


Table 1. IRL Designation Crosswalk
Used for FinPlan & POM               Used for POM Only
                                     CMS
CARA Funding             CARA        Funding
categories crosswalk     Categori    Categorie
for POM and FinPlan      es          s          CMS Risk Definition
Fully Funded (FF)
 Highest Priority        FF-1        ARR-F       Funding to get to at least "Yellow"
 Secondary priority      FF-2        ARR-F       Funding to get to at least "Yellow"
 Important to fund       FF-3        ARR-F       Funding to get to at least "Yellow"
Funded Offsets (FO)
  Hard Take              FO-4        ARR-O       Funded Offset
 Medium Take             FO-5        ARR-O       Funded Offset
  Least Dear             FO-6        ARR-O       Funded Offset
FUNDING LINE
Unfunded Disconnects
(UD)
                                                 Unfunded Continuing Work to achieve at least
  Should Fund            UD-7        ARR-D       "Yellow"
                                     ARR-D       Unfunded new work to achieve at least
  Important              UD-8        or I        "Yellow"
                                     ARR-D
  Lower Priority         UD-9        or I
Unfunded Requests
                                        TR-
Mission Critical
                         UF 1-N         UF       Existing work to achieve "Green"
Mission Essential        UF 1-N         TR-I     New work to achieve "Green"
Mission Support          UF 1-N         UF       Everything Else
Mission Efficiency       UF 1-N
Quality of Life          UF 1-N
Safety                   UF 1-N
Legal                    UF 1-N
Training/Education       UF 1-N
NOTES:
**UD IRLs become UF IRLs after the Fin Plan deliberations conclude, and the funding line is
established.
**UF IRLs are to be categorized using the 412 TW Unfunded Request Categories, then ranked
by the Groups 1-N. UF IRLs are typically funded after the FinPlan stabilizes and when prior year
roll-over and execution year un-allocated funds are available. UF IRLS can and should be added
 8                                            EDWARDSAFBI16-501 17 SEPTEMBER 2014


anytime during the year, with special attention to when funds become available, usually early
2nd quarter of the FY.
EDWARDSAFBI16-501 17 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                      9


Table 2. UR Category Definitions
Unfunded Request
                            Definitions
Categories
                            A requirement that will cause mission failure if not
                            funded - Time critical/immediate consequences, Safety
                            implications, Program breach to cost, schedule,
Mission Critical
                            performance; Stops “important” work now (Critical
                            Path), Current year RBA stream jeopardized, Defense
                            Acquisitions Breach (DAB) breach
                            A requirement that is necessary to accomplish the
                            mission effectively. However, if funding is not obtained,
                            the mission can still be achieved, although not at the
                            most effective level - Some slack in time / near term
Mission Essential
                            consequences, Possible safety issues, Potential program
                            breach to cost, schedule, performance, Work stoppage
                            (Non-Critical Path), Future year RBA stream
                            jeopardized
                            A requirement that is of lesser importance to
                            accomplishing today’s mission but is important for the
Mission Support
                            future - Future test capability jeopardized, Reserve
                            capacity, Long range impact, Undefined RBA stream
                            Efforts that enhance the ability to carry out testing and
                            other business processes in an efficient manner can be
Mission Efficiency
                            related to process improvements that reduce time or
                            effort to carry out the mission.
                            Efforts that enhance readiness by positively influencing
                            efforts to recruit and retain top quality people. Designed
                            to improve the living and working conditions of
Quality of Life
                            members and families by satisfying basic needs, such as
                            housing, medical care, office space, etc. allowing
                            members to focus on performing the mission
                            Situation/condition that requires immediate attention,
                            unsafe non- life threatening situation, action required by
Safety
                            law, contract breech, regulation/instruction violation,
                            Include Risk Assessment code(RAC) # from 412 TW/SE
                            Situations which specifically require immediate attention
Legal
                            due to a violation of law or regulation.
                            Requirements for Training and Education to encompass
Training/Education
                            technical, proficiency, currency and developmental
 10                                         EDWARDSAFBI16-501 17 SEPTEMBER 2014


                              training and related expenses
                              Current year funded requirements which can legally be
                              funded with prior year dollars. This helps buy down
Buy Down
                              execution year requirements freeing up current year
                              dollars for reallocation.
                              Prior year unfunded requirement that was not funded
Prior year UR
                              and is still valid in the execution year.
                              Higher ranked projects will have higher mission impact
                              if not funded and higher need to be funded now. Lower
Category Stratification 1-N
                              ranked projects will have lower mission impact, and
                              lower need to be funded now.


3.6 CARA Working Group (CWG) Review. 412 TW/XP facilitates a capability line-by-line
review of the IRLs with the TW Council and Capability Owners. The purpose of the review is
for the TW Council to adjust which requirements (IRLs) are funded, partially funded, or
unfunded to meet Test Wing goals and optimize the funding distribution across capabilities.
During the review, Capability Owners explain their requirements, identify key disconnects and
offsets, and provide responses to the TW Councils questions and concerns.

   3.7. IRL Adjustment. The TW Council will identify the top disconnects. O&M and
   RDT&E disconnects will be forwarded to AFTC for possible funding and SRM designated
   IRLs will be marked as UD and vetted through the Civil Engineering Division's Facility
   Board process for prioritization and possible funding. 412 TW/FM will maintain an updated
   version of the unfunded disconnect file to serve as an unfunded requirements list for the
   various PECs. The COs are to keep their IRLs updated with unfunded requirement regardless
   of funding source. (412 TW/FM and 412 CPTS provide an estimate by PEC of forecasted
   fall-out.) The TW Council reviews all offsets and disconnects and makes fund/unfund
   adjustment decisions based on Test Wing needs which in turn adjusts the funding balance up
   or down. The balance sheet maintained by 412 TW/FM is updated to ensure the program
   remains affordable with the proper level of management reserve.
   3.8. Finalize Plan. Once the Enterprise CARA Working Group (ECWG) has approved the
   IRLs, the data will be input into the Comprehensive Cost and Requirement (CCaR) system
   for use during current year of execution by the Resource Advisors. The prioritized UD's and
   UF's will be used by 412 TW/FM and 412 CPTS as their initial Unfunded Requirements
   (UR) List that will be used for UR data calls. Unless otherwise directed by command, the
   current CARA funded lines (FF and FO) will serve as the baseline numbers to begin the
   following year FinPlan. For POM builds, 412 MSG/FSS will input manpower information
   into CMS. The AFTC/XP-OL will use our POM IRLs to populate CMS with Flying Hour
   Program (FHP), Civ Pay and Non-Pay data.
4. Execution Tracking
   4.1. Overview. Execution tracking is the purview of 412 TW/FM and 412 CPTS, and is
   covered here to provide the planning to execution connection to complete the CARA process.
EDWARDSAFBI16-501 17 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                         11


  The TW Council reviews cost, schedule, and performance data from the current CARA
  revision during recurring financial management reviews. If significant adjustments to the
  program are needed, the TW Council approves those adjustments. The revision becomes the
  new program baseline and 412 TW/FM updates the IRLs in CCaR and the FM checkbook to
  reflect the new baseline. Figure 1.1 illustrates the CARA POM process flow and Figure 1.2
  shows the FinPlan process flows. Figure 4.1 depicts the Resource Planning Timeline.
  4.2. Financial Management Reviews. Execution tracking is accomplished using monthly
  execution reviews and the quarterly Financial Management Board hosted by 412 CPTS.
  These reviews are provided to the TW Council by the Groups, and provide an assessment of
  the execution of actual funding expenditures compared to the CARA FinPlan. The TW
  Council provides guidance and determines if any redirection is warranted.
  4.3. Adjustments. Any programmatic changes that are identified during the year of
  execution and require an adjustment to a group or squadron's budget must be handled
  accordingly. The Group Commanders/Directors may approve revisions below the threshold
  that are within their overall budget allocation. Any revisions above the authorized threshold
  set by the 412 TW/CC must be brought before the TW Council for approval. These
  proposed revisions can be identified during monthly execution reviews, Financial
  Management Board or during TW Council meetings. 412 FM/FM or 412 CPTS will
  maintain the adjustment file and Resource Advisors will make adjustment to their budgets as
  directed by the TW Council (or below-threshold for administrative adjustments).
  4.4. Baseline IRL. FM will use prior year IRLs and baselines as a starting point for next
  year's program with adjustments made to account for known programmatic changes and any
  information provided by AFTC. At the end of the fiscal year, the executing program will be
  reviewed and analyzed against actual execution data from CCaR and adjustments to next
  year’s program will be made.
 12                                       EDWARDSAFBI16-501 17 SEPTEMBER 2014


Figure 4. Resource Planning Timeline




5. Metrics. The metrics for this procedure is planned verses actual expenditures, and the
generation and timeliness of the FinPlan and POM submission to AFTC.




                                         MICHAEL T. BREWER,Brigadier General, USAF
                                         Commander
EDWARDSAFBI16-501 17 SEPTEMBER 2014                                              13


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 16-501, Control and Documentation of Air Force Programs, 15 August 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Acronyms and Abbreviations
412 TW/CC—412th Test Wing Commander
412 TW—412th Test Wing
412 TW/FM—412th Test Wing Financial Management Office
412 MSG/FSS—412th Mission Support Group Force Support Squadron
412 CPTS/CC—412th Comptroller Squadron Commander
412 TW/XP—412th Test Wing Plans and Programs Office
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFTC—Air Force Test Center
AFTC/XP—OL -Air Force Test Center Plans and Programs Office Operating Location
CARA—Capability Analysis and Risk Assessment
CCaR—Comprehensive Cost and Requirement System
CME—Contractor man-year equivalents
CMS—Command Management System
CO—Capability Owner
DAB—Defense Acquisitions Board
DBA—Direct Budget Authority
ECWG—Enterprise CARA Working Group
EEIC—Element of Expense/Investment Code
ExPlan—Execution Plan
FF—Fully funded
FHP—Flying Hour Program
FinPlan—Financial Plan
FMB—Financial Management Board
FO—Funded Offset
 14                                    EDWARDSAFBI16-501 17 SEPTEMBER 2014


FYDP—Future Year Defense Program
GCRM—Graduated Capability Readiness Matrix
I&M—Improvement & Modernization (I&M)
IRL—Integrated Requirements List
O&M—Operation & Maintenance
PEC—Program Element Code
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
RAC—Risk Assessment Code
RAP—Resource Advisory Panel
RBA—Reimbursable Budget Authority
RDT&E—Research, Development, Test and Evaluation
SR&M—Sustainment, Restoration & Modernization
TOA—Total Obligation Authority
TRR—Test Resource Requirements
UD—Unfunded Disconnect
UF—Unfunded Request
UR—Unfunded Requirement
WBS—Work Breakdown Structure
WSA—Wing Staff Agency
