BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                      EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE
EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE                                              INSTRUCTION 99-100

                                                                          27 NOVEMBER 2013

                                                                            Test and Evaluation

                                                 THE PROJECT MANAGEMENT PROCESS


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 412 TMG                                                         Certified by: 412 TW/TMG
                                                                                   (Brian Hobbs)
                                                                                         Pages: 8




This publication implements AFMCI 99-103, Test Management, 22 November 2004, guidance
and procedures on the Project Management Process as the overarching directive of the 412th
Test Wing(TW) for managing test projects. This applies to all 412 TW organizations
managing, supporting or contributing to 412 TW tests. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-
363, Management of Records, 01 Mar 2008, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)”. Refer
recommended changes and questions concerning this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22
Sep 2008; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. The OPR will be responsible for staffing the AF Form 847 and initiating the formal
change process through the organization to the base publications/forms manager. Requests for
waivers to any part of this publication must be submitted to the 412th TW Test Management
Division (TMG) Director.


1. References. Details and information for executing the processes are contained in the Project
Management Handbook hosted on the Air Force Portal, Air Force Test Center (AFTC); 412 TW
Test Management Division publications tab.
2. General. The goal of the Project Management Process is the cost effective and timely
delivery of agreed upon project content through application of standard project management
 2                                             EDWARDSAFBI99-100 27 NOVEMBER 2013


methodologies, processes, and tools. This instruction establishes the high-level Project
Management Process and defines general organizational responsibilities for managing 412 TW
projects. The objective is to apply common management tools and procedures to effectively
manage projects. Specific procedures for accomplishing the activities outlined in this instruction
are defined in the 412 TW/TMG PM Handbook 99-101, The Project Management Process, PM
training courses (e.g., PM 201, PM 301) and provided through on-the-job training, AFI 16-201,
Air Force Foreign Disclosure and Technology Transfer Program, 01 Dec 2004, and other
applicable policies and procedures as directed by the Foreign Disclosure Office. This instruction
does not apply to 412 TW Improvement and Modernization projects which are covered in local
system engineering guidance.
3. Roles and Responsibilities.
     3.1. All 412th Test Wing (TW) personnel are responsible for supporting the Project
     Management Process and using the project management tools and procedures as defined in
     this instruction.
     3.2. Test Wing Commander. Ultimate authority on the duties, Project Management
     Processes and tools rests with the TW Commander. The TW Commander will conduct
     periodic project management reviews (PMRs) to review portfolio status and assess the health
     of Project Management Process.
     3.3. Test Engineering Group (TENG), Electronic Warfare Group (EWG) Maintenance
     Group (MXG) Commanders. Group commanders and directors will ensure that assigned
     personnel support the Project Management Process and tools. Group commanders or their
     designees will participate in periodic PMRs.
     3.4. Test Management Division (TMG). The TMG Division Chief will ensure adherence and
     approve any exceptions to the Project Management Process and procedures. The TMG
     Division Chief is TW program manager (1101/63AX) Center Senior Functional responsible
     for resourcing the Project Management Process personnel, training and tools. The TMG
     Division Chief or designee will participate in the periodic PMRs.
        3.4.1. The Project Management Branch Chief (TMGG) is responsible for day-to-day
        oversight, support and improvement of the Project Management Processes, training and
        tools, filling and managing directors of projects and project managers positions (in
        collaboration with CTF directors, group commanders, and TW Succession Planning
        Team) analyzing project requirements and making test execution organization (TEO)
        assignments according to The Test Support Request Staffing Process.
        3.4.2. The Resource Planning and Analysis Branch chief will collaborate with the Project
        Management Branch chief to ensure efficient execution of the PI/SOC Process and
        Project Management Processes. The Resource Planning and Analysis Branch chief is
        responsible for identifying and filling business leader and program analyst positions in
        collaboration with CTF directors.
     3.5. Combined Test Force (CTF) Director. The CTF directors (or integrated test force [ITF]
     directors, test execution organization (TEO) commanders or directors, office directors, etc.)
     and/or their deputies, retain the responsibility and cannot delegate the authority to make
     decisions regarding the balancing of cost, schedule and content across the multiple projects
     for which their organization has been identified as the 412 TW TEO. The 412th Operations
EDWARDSAFBI99-100 27 NOVEMBER 2013                                                             3


   Group Flight Test Squadron (FLTS) commanders and the CTF deputy directors (Directors of
   Projects [DP]) typically serve in these capacities.
   3.6. Director of Projects. The DP serves as the CTF deputy director, assigns PMs to projects,
   provides guidance, leadership and resolves project-related resource issues as necessary. The
   DP oversees the execution of the Project Management Process and collaborates with TMGG
   on improvements. The DP reviews project documentation, such as but not limited to test
   concept, statements of capability (SOC), program management plan and other documents for
   completeness, currency and accuracy. The DP ensures a Project Management Review (PMR)
   briefing is presented to the 412 TW Commander on a rotating schedule. The chief of Special
   Projects Branch (TMGS) also has the responsibilities and duties as outlined in this paragraph.
   3.7. Project Manager. The PM has the delegated authority to plan and execute projects
   through application of standard project management methodologies, processes, and tools.
   The PM is responsible for developing and managing the project agreement SOC, for cost,
   schedule and content; and communicating its status to stakeholders and customers.
   Throughout the project, PMs are responsible to negotiate, manage, and balance all aspects of
   the defined project cost and schedule within the context of the project content defined by the
   technical subject matter experts. PMs must understand the requirements and define the
   project so that a viable capability and resource estimate (C&RE) is created and a feasible
   SOC is produced, given the defined project content. PMs work as the team lead to identify,
   analyze and mitigate project risk. PMs will not operate unilaterally and are ultimately
   responsible for keeping management informed on the status of the project. PMs will work
   with their DP to provide up-to-date status of assigned projects for inclusion into the PMR and
   Consolidated Project List (CPL).
   3.8. Program Analyst (PA). The PA’s responsibilities are outlined in The Test Support
   Staffing Process.
   3.9. Business Leaders (BL). The BL is the CTF or ITF focal point identifying, coordinating
   and managing resource requirements, monitoring squadron manpower, manages squadron
   funding, assisting the PMs in estimating project resources, conducting tests of reasonableness
   on cost estimates; and managing the squadron flying hour program.
4. Procedures.
   4.1. The Project Management Process is the responsibility of the Test Management Division
   (TMG). It includes the development and training of 412 TW personnel, and the assignment
   of DPs, BLs, PMs and PAs to TEOs. DPs or equivalent key personnel are responsible for
   informing the Project Management Branch Chief on the availability of PMs assigned to the
   organization, based on the knowledge, skills and abilities required to maintain or execute the
   mission.
   4.2. High-level descriptions of the Test Project Management Process are defined below.
 4                                           EDWARDSAFBI99-100 27 NOVEMBER 2013


Figure 1. High-Level Test Project Management Process.




      4.2.1. Initiate the Project. A test project begins with a customer need. The customer may
      express the need in several different ways. The most common approach is a formal
      program introduction document. The Project Management Process begins once the
      decision is made to support a project. If the decision is made not to support a project, a
      non-support letter is generated, approved by the Wing Commander and delivered to the
      customer. The minimum activities required for initiating a project are to assign a Job
      Order Number, assign the TEO and assemble a core team.
      4.2.2. Plan/Provision the Project. Planning begins with concurrence to support the
      customer’s request.       Detailed requirements are refined with customer and key
      organizational resource members (e.g., engineering, instrumentation, range, maintenance,
      etc.) participation (to include specific project objectives, deliverables and success
      criteria). Major deliverables, schedules, resources, cost estimates, capability limitations
      and risk areas are identified and documented. For test projects, these are consolidated
      and communicated in the project SOC. Customer concurrence with the SOC establishes
      the agreement to reimburse the TW for the products and services.
         4.2.2.1. Once the SOC is signed by the customer and customer funding is received,
         the PM proceeds with obtaining the necessary and resources, coordinating test
         logistics (i.e., manpower support, instrumentation modifications, etc.) and
         development of the test and safety plans.
         4.2.2.2. When the customer has not concurred with portions of the SOC but has
         signed and provided funding, planning and provisioning may continue while the
         issues are negotiated. Without established funding, detailed planning and
         provisioning shall be suspended.
      4.2.3. Execute Project. The PM must “understand” the project to monitor it and track
      progress and to verify project status and execution flow. The PM must ensure an agile
      approach to execution is taken to accommodate project variability. The primary tools for
      managing cost and schedule are the Project Cost Management Suite (PCMS) and
      Concerto, respectively.
      4.2.4. Report. The PM will work with the project team to facilitate the completion and
      timely delivery to customers and stakeholders test reports (e.g., preliminary and final
      technical reports, project cost and schedule status reports Project Management Reports,
EDWARDSAFBI99-100 27 NOVEMBER 2013                                                            5


     etc.) and deliverables. The PM is responsible for ensuring watch items are identified and
     documented, and deficiency reporting is accomplished.
     4.2.5. Control. Throughout the project, the PM balances all aspects of the project by
     managing and integrating cost, schedule and content, using Concerto PCMS and other
     management information tools. The PM works as the team lead to identify, analyze and
     mitigate project risk. The PM communicates project status to stakeholders and customers
     to effectively and efficiently execute the project. The PM ensures the accuracy of project
     plans and documents changes.
     4.2.6. Closeout. The PM ensures all deliverables are provided to the customer, required
     reports are written and distributed, Job Order Numbers are assigned to the appropriate
     phase and “lessons learned” are captured for application to the next project. The PM
     ensures project completion is documented in Concerto and PCMS, and required project
     metrics (e.g. actual completion date versus estimated completion date, actual cost versus
     estimated, etc.) are collected and distributed.
     4.2.7. Test Acceleration (TA) or Test Surge (TS). The AFTC may be directed to
     perform TA or TS activities (real world or exercise) in direct support of combat elements
     or wartime material support in the field. In these cases, the core test and evaluation
     processes still apply; however, special consideration is given to the acceleration of every
     activity wherever possible. The PM will follow the TW TA and Test Surge checklists
     which outline applicable notification, planning, execution and reporting procedures for all
     real world or exercise TA and TS activities in accordance with Air Force Flight Test
     Center Instruction (AFFTCI) 99-106, Test Acceleration/Test Surge, 21 Jun 2011.
  4.3. Improving Project Management. The 412 TW is committed to the continuous process
  improvement (CPI) of products and services, as well as being good stewards of the resources
  entrusted to the organization. The Test Management Division (TMG) will employ various
  methodologies and tools for continuous process improvement under Air Force Smart
  Operations for the 21st Century (AFSO21) to identify and correct areas that constrain project
  management throughput and/or weaken our fiscal performance.




                                          MICHAEL T. BREWER, Brigadier General, USAF
                                          Commander
 6                                         EDWARDSAFBI99-100 27 NOVEMBER 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFFTCI 99-106, Test Acceleration/Test Surge, 21 Jun 2011
AFI 16-201, Air Force Foreign Disclosure and Technology Transfer Program, 01 Dec 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 Mar 2008
AFMCI 65-602, Uniform Reimbursement and Pricing Procedures, 21 Feb 2006
AFMCI 90-104, Implementing AFSO21 Initiatives, 29 Sep 2008
AFMCI 99-103, Test Management, 22 November 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFFTCI—Air Force Flight Test Center Instruction
AFTC—Air Force Test Center
AFSO21— – Air Force Smart Operations for the 21st Century
C&RE—Capability and Resource Estimate
CPI—Continuous Process Improvement
CTF—Combined Test Force
DP—Director of Projects
FOT&E—Follow-on Test and Evaluation
IOT&E—Initial Operational Test and Evaluation
ITF—Integrated Test Force
JON—Job Order Number
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PA—Program Analyst
PM—Project Manager
PMR—Project Management Review
ROM—Rough Order of Magnitude
SOC—Statement of Capability
TA—Test Acceleration
T & E—Test and Evaluation
EDWARDSAFBI99-100 27 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                 7


TEO—Test Execution Organization
TOC PM—Theory of Constraints Project Management
412 TW—412th Test Wing
412 TW/ TMG—412th Test Wing Test Management Division
412 TW/TMGB—Resource Planning and Analysis Branch
412 TW/TMGG—Project Management Branch
412 TW/TMGS—Special Projects Branch

Terms
Capability and Resource Estimate (C&RE)— A C&RE refers to the functional organization’s
formal cost estimate. It includes a transmittal letter describing the resources provided, as well as
constraints or assumptions associated with the test support request.
Combined Test Force (CTF) (or Integrated Test Force [ITF])— A test force made up of
representatives from 412 TW, participating test organizations, Air Force Operational Test
and Evaluation Center, using and support commands, other military services (ITF only) and
contractors. A CTF (or ITF) is organized for each system undergoing test and evaluation (T&E).
CTFs and ITFs are responsible for all aspects of planning, coordinating, managing, flight
operations, safety, testing and reporting of T&E and support of initial operational test and
evaluation (IOT&E) and follow-on test and evaluation (FOT&E) test programs.
Core Team— The core team refers to the key team of personnel involved in the project decision
package process and statement of capability (SOC) development. Its members include, but are
not limited to, the customer, project manager (PM), program analyst (PA) business leader (BL)
and key organizational resource members, as required (e.g., engineering, instrumentation, range,
maintenance, etc.).
Integrated Test Force (ITF)— (See “CTF” definition above).
Job Order Number (JON)— A JON refers to an alpha and/or numeric designation assigned to
a project to identify a specific work effort.
Non-Test Project— A planned temporary undertaking having a finite beginning and ending;
planned to achieve a particular goal, meet objectives, or create a unique product, service, or
result. A non-test project does not require the execution of test points, acquisition of data and the
evaluation of results. It may provide support or facilities to other test or non-test projects,
businesses or individuals.
Program Introduction (PI) Document— A PI is one form of a Test Support Request and
serves as the initial planning document. It identifies the scope and duration of program activity
and the test objectives.
Project Management Review (PMR)— A project status briefing given by the directors of
projects to the 412 TW Commander on a rotating basis.
Resources— The goods and services used to accomplish a project, e.g. money, manpower,
equipment, facilities, materials and information and/or technology.
 8                                             EDWARDSAFBI99-100 27 NOVEMBER 2013


Statement of Capability (SOC)— The 412 TW’s response to a customer's test support request.
The SOC document is the 412 TW’s commitment to provide the customer the necessary
resources, along with the cost estimate and schedule for the requested support.
Test Acceleration (TA)— A new test project that, in support of real-world or exercise activities,
requires a quick reaction turnaround time as directed by the 412 TW Commander.
Test and Evaluation (T&E)— A process by which a system (or component) is exercised and
results analyzed to provide performance-related information. The information has many uses
including risk identification and risk mitigation and empirical data to validate models and
simulations.        T&E enables an assessment of the attainment of technical performance,
specifications and system maturity to determine whether systems are operationally effective,
suitable and survivable for intended use, and/or lethal. There are three distinct types of T&E
defined in statute or regulation: Developmental Test and Evaluation, Operational Test and
Evaluation, and Live Fire Test and Evaluation. (For definitions of these T&E types, refer to the
Defense Acquisition University Glossary: Acronyms and Terms).
Test Concept (TC)— A document generated by the PM that supplements the PI; and completely
describes the layout of the test support and other resources needed for a program. Organizations
use the TC to determine their support and level of effort required for preparation of the SOC and
cost estimates.
Test Execution Organization (TEO)— A specific CTF, ITF, etc., assigned by the responsible
test organization to accomplish the requested test project.
Test Project— A planned undertaking having a finite beginning and ending; involving
development, test, and evaluation of a major weapon or weapon support system or systems in
response to a stated mission need or deficiency. A test project may be the whole or a part of a
program and may be used to obtain, verify, or provide data for the evaluation of performance,
operational capability and suitability, vulnerability, and lethality of systems, subsystems,
components, and equipment items. A test project executes test points. It can be executed by a
responsible test organization (RTO) or a participating test organization (PTO).
Test Surge— The accelerated execution of an existing project.
Test Support Project— A planned temporary undertaking having a finite beginning and ending;
for the purpose of supporting or facilitating the execution of a test project. It is not an RTO
project, but may be a PTO project. It is not responsible for evaluating the capability under test,
but may be responsible for acquiring, processing and providing data or a report. A Test support
project normally does not execute test points.
