BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       EDWARD AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE                                                      21-209

                                                                                    30 MAY 2013

                                                                                MAINTENANCE

                                                              HYDRAZINE (H-70) RESPONSE
                                                                           PROCEDURES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 412 MXS/MXMXF                                                    Certified by: 412 MXG/CC
                                                                         (Col Robert F. Weaver)
Supersedes:    EDWARDSAFBI21-209,                                                        Pages: 8
               8 July 2010


This instruction implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD)21-
1, Air and Space Maintenance. This instruction establishes policies and procedures for recovery
and support of aircraft following ground or in-flight operation of the Emergency Power Unit
(EPU) and returning the EPU to operational status. It further describes hydrazine leak evaluation,
containment and neutralization of hydrazine spills and fire protection. This instruction applies to
all Edwards Air Force Base personnel involved with aircraft hydrazine maintenance, operations
and emergency response. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. This publication may be supplemented at any level,
but all direct Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to
certification and approval. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) Units. No waiver may be granted for any part of this publication.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Updated MXG OI data (paragraph 2), renamed ROC to MOC (paragraph 2.11 and 5.5), edited
paragraph 2.12.1, adding the word one at the beginning of the sentence and revised hydrazine
response recovery areas (paragraph 3.4.2) equipment located in dispatch vehicles and storage
areas (paragraph 7), minor grammatical changes and updated office symbols.
 2                                                       EDWARDSAFBI21-209 30 MAY 2013


1. General
     1.1. Hydrazine is a fuel that can be absorbed into the human body and potentially cause
     harm. The toxicity and fire danger of hydrazine makes exposure dangerous. Procedures and
     specific guidelines are established to accomplish a safe coordinated effort by personnel
     involved in the recovery of aircraft with activated EPUs, as well as, containment and
     neutralization of hydrazine spills and aircraft fire protection. Personnel must be thoroughly
     familiar with these procedures prior to performing any duties involving hydrazine. Only
     certified and qualified personnel will accomplish recovery and maintenance activities
     involving hydrazine.
2. Policy
     2.1. Recovery team members will be thoroughly familiar with the provisions in this
     instruction and TOs 1F-16(*)-2-49GS-00-1; 1F-16(*)-2-49JG-00-1, -2, -3; 00-25-172.
     2.2. Any EPU activation will be considered hazardous until cleared by the HRT, Fire
     Department and Bio-environmental Engineer representative (for maintenance facilities).
     2.3. Scheduled air starts (EPU activation) will not be declared an in-flight or ground
     emergency unless an aircraft safety-of-flight/life threatening condition exists or a hydrazine
     leak is detected. All other (unscheduled) EPU activations or suspected hydrazine leaks,
     whether in-flight or on the ground, will be declared an emergency.
     2.4. Scheduled air start missions will be pre-coordinated through 412 OSS/OSR Scheduling
     and 412 AMXS/MXAA, 912 AMXS/MXAD, and 412 MXS/MXMXF Production
     Supervisors to ensure personnel and equipment are available prior to aircraft launch. The
     412 OSS personnel will also coordinate with the fire department and control tower personnel.
     Pre-coordination will include the following:
        2.4.1. Aircraft launch time and sortie duration (all agencies).
        2.4.2. Aircraft recovery location area (when known) i.e., 04R/22L (primary) and
        04L/22R (secondary) hammerheads or for any lakebed Runway landing recover at
        Taxiway Delta. Taxiway Bravo shall only be used if the departure end hammerhead has
        on-going activities (all agencies).
        2.4.3. Pre-positioning of aircraft boarding ladder and fire bottle prior to scheduled air
        starts at the recovery spot (412 AMXS/412 MXG).
        2.4.4. Positioning of support equipment at the EPU maintenance area (B-1 or B-4
        maintenance stand, power unit and an “EPU Only” designated nitrogen cart).
     2.5. Upon notification of an activated EPU or suspected hydrazine leak, the MOC will
     initiate the Hydrazine Response checklist and post “Activated EPU Recovery In Progress” on
     the Aircraft Status Board until notified by the IC or HRT supervisor that the aircraft has been
     released back to maintenance.
     2.6. Aircraft with an activated EPU can recover at runway 04R/22L (primary) and 04L/22R
     (secondary) hammerheads or for any lakebed Runway landing recover at Taxiway Delta.
     Taxiway Bravo shall only be used if the departure end hammerhead has on-going activities.
     2.7. The HRT supervisor will coordinate with the IC upon arrival at the aircraft. The IC will
     determine when the aircraft is safe to be approached by the HRT. The IC and HRT will
EDWARDSAFBI21-209 30 MAY 2013                                                                   3


   maintain direct communications by monitoring Fire/Crash Tactical Channel 1 (TAC 1)
   during all phases of the response. The Fire Department will provide an IC and a tender truck
   as minimum support for all scheduled air start recoveries.
      2.7.1. Only certified Fire Department personnel and HRT members wearing proper
      personal protective equipment will enter restricted area cordon to approach aircraft that
      have an activated EPU or suspected hydrazine leak. No other personnel will enter the
      area until deemed safe by the IC or HRT supervisor. The only exception to this situation
      is where there is immediate danger to human life or the aircraft is on fire.
      2.7.2. The IC and HRT supervisor will remain at the aircraft during all phases of aircraft
      recovery.
      2.7.3. Medical personnel and/or a base bio-environmental engineer will be called to the
      controlled area at the discretion of the IC or HRT.
   2.8. Aircraft with an activated EPU or suspected hydrazine leak will be worked on a
   Priority1 basis until all required maintenance actions are completed.
   2.9. Routine hydrazine maintenance will be performed on the Gun Butt. During
       inclement weather or if Pad 5/6 is occupied, the HUSH House will be an alternate
       location IAW MXG OI 21-115 para 2.2. NOTE: F-16 aircraft H-70 systems that have
   been purged      and disconnected for phase or other H-70 system maintenance may be
   connected (hooked       up) inside fuel systems repair buildings 1624 and 1622. Hydrazine
   maintenance and/or EPU servicing locations are “Controlled Areas.”
   2.10. The aircraft-owning unit will ensure the EPU activation discrepancy is entered into the
   AFTO 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document, and the Integrated
   Maintenance Data System (IMDS).
3. Procedures
   3.1. Initial Response procedures for all EPU activations:
      3.1.1. For in-flight activation, IC will establish radio or visual communications with pilot
      (UHF radio communication using frequency 225.4, Edwards Ground) and ensure aircraft
      is positioned correctly at the recovery point (aligned at a 45-degree angle, with left
      wingtip pointed upwind.)
      3.1.2. If the aircraft is incapable of being marshaled into proper position, all responding
      personnel will position themselves upwind and proceed with the recovery.
      3.1.3. The IC will instruct the pilot to place the EPU switch in the “OFF” position.
      CAUTION: To prevent possible exposure to hydrazine, the aircrew will remain in the
      aircraft with the canopy closed, using aircraft 100 percent Oxygen (O2) until cleared to
      egress by the IC or HRT supervisor.
      3.1.4. During ground maintenance runs when use of aircraft oxygen is unavailable, keep
      aircraft canopy closed until cleared to egress by the IC or HRT supervisor.
      3.1.5. The IC will immediately establish a 100-foot cordon around affected aircraft. For
      ground activations, IC will evaluate prevailing winds and adjust the downwind cordon
      accordingly.
 4                                                      EDWARDSAFBI21-209 30 MAY 2013


        3.1.6. The Fire Department will check aircraft for hot brakes prior to IC clearing HRT
        personnel to approach aircraft, chock left main landing gear tire and complete initial
        hydrazine check.
            3.1.6.1. The HRT personnel will visually inspect for hydrazine leakage. If no leak is
            detected, HRT personnel will move to a safe distance and inform the IC, who will
            notify pilot(s) of aircraft status. The IC will then instruct pilot(s) to ensure EPU
            switch is in the “OFF” position and shut down the aircraft.
            3.1.6.2. If hydrazine leakage is detected, HRT will immediately inform the IC, who
            will notify pilot(s) of aircraft status and declare a ground emergency (if not
            previously initiated). The IC will determine if the 100-foot cordon needs to be
            adjusted, based on the location of the emergency and prevailing winds. The IC will
            then instruct the pilot to ensure EPU switch is in the “OFF” position and shut down
            the aircraft.
            3.1.6.3. The HRT will pin the EPU and assist the pilot(s) during egress from the
            aircraft using a portable oxygen bottle and crew/step ladder.
        3.1.7. HRT personnel will then be cleared to perform a “Sniff Check” of the EPU and
        nitrogen servicing areas for any hydrazine vapors and perform a more detailed inspection
        for hydrazine leaks.
        3.1.8. If hydrazine vapors are detected, HRT will immediately inform the IC, who will
        declare a ground emergency (if not previously initiated). The IC will determine if the
        100-foot cordon needs to be adjusted, based on the location of the emergency and
        prevailing winds.
        3.1.9. The HRT will conduct hydrazine clean-up procedures. The Fire Department and
        HRT personnel will continuously monitor themselves for liquid hydrazine exposure.
        3.1.10. If personnel are exposed to hydrazine, medical personnel will immediately be
        called. The exposed personnel shall go directly to the decontamination area and be
        decontaminated. After exposed personnel are decontaminated, they will be evaluated by
        medical personnel in the safe area. Personnel that receive exposure to their skin will
        follow the procedures in paragraph 6.
        3.1.11. When clean-up is completed, IC will terminate the ground emergency (if
        initiated) and HRT will safe the aircraft EPU system IAW LCL-412 MXS-M-03-052.
        Prior to the aircraft movement to the hydrazine maintenance area, aircraft safe for
        maintenance actions will be performed by the owning agency IAW TO 1F-16(*)-2-10JG-
        00-1.
4. Post Recovery Maintenance Actions: NOTE: “Post Recovery” maintenance actions shall
not begin until all “Initial Response” actions are completed. The HRT, crew chief and/or Tow
Team shall perform Post Recovery maintenance.
     4.1. After performing all necessary leak and “Sniff” checks for any presence of hydrazine
     and the aircraft is “deemed safe”, the HRT will depressurize the EPU system. The HRT
     supervisor will then clear the crew chief into the area to pin/safe the aircraft and complete
     recovery operations.
EDWARDSAFBI21-209 30 MAY 2013                                                                     5


   4.2. The HRT supervisor will clear Special Instrumentation and Jet Engine personnel into
   the area to download any mission data and/or tapes as required.
   4.3. After required aircraft safing functions and recovery of mission tapes, the HRT
   supervisor will clear the aircraft-owning unit into the area to tow the aircraft to the hydrazine
   maintenance area located at the Gun Butt.
   4.4. The HRT supervisor will ensure non-hydrazine qualified personnel are clear of the
   hydrazine maintenance area prior to proceeding with follow-on hydrazine maintenance.
   4.5. The HRT will perform an additional “Sniff” check and sample any liquid present with
   Litmus Paper to ensure no hydrazine is present and then proceed with EPU purge, restoration
   and final serviceability checks. After completion of all EPU maintenance actions, the HRT
   supervisor will advise the MOC and aircraft-owning unit that the aircraft is ready for tow.
   4.6. Comply with CSFDR Download and comply with EPU preflight maintenance
   requirements.
5. Personnel Exposed To Hydrazine
   5.1. Anyone who suspects they have been exposed to hydrazine, either liquid or vapor, will
   evacuate to the decontamination area and remove exposed clothing. Exposed personnel will
   identify themselves to the SFO or HRT. Unless already initiated, a ground emergency will
   be declared and medical personnel will be called.
   5.2. Exposed personnel will immediately isolate themselves from others and decontaminate
   with water for a minimum of 15 minutes. Any external area that came in contact with liquid
   hydrazine will also be decontaminated. Runoff will be collected for testing.
   5.3. Any clothing that has been contaminated with hydrazine will be removed at the scene
   and given to HRT for decontamination and disposal. At no time will clothing that has been
   contaminated be allowed to leave the area without being decontaminated by the HRT.
   5.4. After decontamination, exposed personnel will be evaluated by medical personnel and
   will be transported to the Flight Medicine Clinic or other appropriate medical facility as
   medically indicated.
6. Control Of Hydrazine Equipment And Tools
   6.1. Tools and equipment stored on hydrazine response vehicles (Fuels 1 / Fuels 2) will be
   used and maintained IAW 412 TW OI 21-200.
   6.2. Tools, equipment and consumables stored on hydrazine response vehicles will have an
   inventory and be accounted for at the beginning and end of each shift.
   6.3. Consumables used during a response will be accounted for and replaced immediately
   after each response.
6                                                  EDWARDSAFBI21-209 30 MAY 2013



    6.4. All “stored” consumables will be inventoried and accounted for and/or replenished
    every 90-days and tracked in the Tool Accountability System (TAS).




                                         MICHAEL T. BREWER, Brigadier General, USAF
                                         Commander
EDWARDSAFBI21-209 30 MAY 2013                                                                   7


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
TO 00-25-172 10 February 20, Change 8 12 July 2012
LCL-412 MXS-M-03-052, 25 July 2003, Change 2 16 February 2011
MXG OI 21-115, Hush House Operations, 6 November 2011
1F-16(*)-2-10JG-00-1, 1 March 2012
1F-16(*)-2-49GS-00-1, 1 September 2011
1F-16(*)-2-49JG-00-1, 1 September 2011
1F-16(*)-2-49JG-00-2, 1 September 2011
1F-16(*)-2-49JG-00-3, 1 September 2011
Adopted Forms
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 February 2003
AFTO Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document

Terms
Recovery Team— A team consisting of Fire Department, Hydrazine Response Team (HRT),
crew chief, a tow team and medical personnel.
Incident Commander (IC)— The on scene Senior Fire Official - Charged with overall
oversight, to include evacuation of the area, cordon - establishment, egress of the pilot and
coordination/communication with all base agencies. The IC performs all command and control
duties during recovery of aircraft with activated EPUs and during containment and neutralization
of hydrazine spills and aircraft fire protection.
Hydrazine Response Team (HRT)— Specially equipped, three-member team assigned to the
412th Maintenance Squadron, Aircraft Fuel Systems Repair Element (412 MXS/MXMXF),
trained to detect, isolate, contain and neutralize hydrazine following EPU activations and/or
suspected ground emergencies involving activated and/or leaking aircraft hydrazine systems.
Emergency Response—Those actions that require utilization of the Fire Department, HRT and
other base agencies resulting from aircraft with an in-flight or ground emergency, hydrazine leak
or suspected hydrazine leak.
Initial Aircraft Recovery— Actions taken by the Fire Department and HRT personnel
immediately following EPU activation, hydrazine leak, suspected hydrazine leak or
contamination.
Post-Recovery Maintenance Actions— Actions taken by aircraft maintenance personnel
returning the emergency power system to operational status after initial aircraft recovery actions
are complete.
 8                                                      EDWARDSAFBI21-209 30 MAY 2013


Deemed Safe— Term describing that the aircraft nitrogen system has been depressurized and the
immediate area has been tested for the presence of hydrazine and determined to be clear and safe
for tow to hydrazine maintenance area as determined by the IC and HRT supervisor.
Hydrazine Maintenance— Tasks performed by the 412 MXS Aircraft Fuel Systems Repair
Team personnel including but not limited to: purging the EPU system, EPU refurbishment and
EPU component and hydrazine bottle replacement.
Restricted Area Cordon— 100-foot cordon around entire aircraft with activated EPU,
(suspected) hydrazine leak or contamination. (Note: Cordon size may have to be increased as
determined by winds and the severity of a hydrazine leak. The new cordon dimensions will be
established by the IC.)\
Controlled Area— Hydrazine maintenance and EPU servicing area 100 feet from flight line
operations, populated areas, ditches, creeks and waterways.
Maintenance Operations Center (MOC)— The coordinating function for radio
communications between the flight line, HRT and Edwards Control Tower personnel. All flight
line actions will be radioed to the MOC for coordination.
Entry Control Point Cordons— Areas established around aircraft and/or hydrazine spill for
recovery activities are defined as follows:
100 feet upwind— One hundred feet upwind will be established by the IC as the minimum safe
distance for personnel not directly involved in the aircraft recovery operation. This distance may
be extended up to 1,000 feet if an actual spill has occurred.
75 feet upwind— A distance of 75 feet upwind will be established as the decontamination area
for any personnel exposed to hydrazine as confirmed by HRT personnel.
50 feet upwind— A distance of 50 feet upwind will be established as the exclusion zone. Entry
by non-HRT personnel is not allowed without specific HRT or IC approval.
Air start mission— Results in a scheduled, deliberate and planned activation of the EPU for the
purpose of testing aircraft engine, systems or part of the Test Pilot School curriculum.
Sniff check— The use of a multi-gas detector to determine if hydrazine is present.
Leak detection— The use of Litmus paper to determine if a liquid is hydrazine.
