BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE
EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE                                                INSTRUCTION 99-224

                                                                                  1 MARCH 2013

                                                                              Test and Evaluation

                                                                    DEFICIENCY REPORTING

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS INSTRUCTION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 773TS/CL                                                         Certified by: 412 TENG/DD
                                                                           (LtCol Martin Whalen)
Supersedes:    EDWARDSAFBI99-224,                                                        Pages: 18
               27 October 2010


The purpose of this instruction is to implement the Air Force Test Center’s 412 Test Wing
Deficiency Reporting (DR) policy. Air Force Materiel Command Instruction (AFMCI) 63-510,
Deficiency Reporting, Investigation, and Resolution, provides policy relating to AFMC’s
implementation of AF policy and creates the management framework for the application of
Technical Order (T.O.) 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting, Investigation, and Resolution,
by all AFMC organizations. The T.O. mandates the use of the Air Force DR process (see
Attachment 2 for the 412TW’s process flowchart) along with the roles and responsibilities for
test and evaluation, and life cycle management centers as well as the program office in the
identification and resolution of system anomalies (see Attachment 3 - Table A3.1. DR
Submission and Resolution Responsibilities). Guidance for product quality deficiency reporting
is found in federal acquisition requirements of Public Law, Title 41, Code of Federal
Regulations, subpart 101-26-8, Discrepancies or Deficiencies in General Service Administration
or Department of Defense Shipments, Material, or Billings. This guidance applies specifically to
test projects and their personnel at Edwards Air Force Base, CA which fall within the auspices of
the 412th Test Wing. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command, Air
National Guard, or Civil Air Patrol Units.

Compliance with T.O. 00-35D-54 is required by 412TW organizations which serve as a
responsible test organization (RTO), regardless if the testing is being conducted at Edwards Air
Force Base, is at a deployed/remote testing location, or is part of a joint/multi-service program.
Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule                           located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions
 2                                                                           EDWARDSAFBI99-224 1 MARCH 2013


about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. This publication may be supplemented at any level,
but all direct Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to
certification and approval.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction incorporates administrative and process revisions made due to changes in Air
Force policy, i.e., the release of Air Force Technical Order 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency
Reporting, Investigation, and Resolution, dated 1 November 2011. In addition, due to the
establishment of the Air Force Test Center, references to the Air Force Flight Test Center were
replaced. As a result of the changes, this instruction should be read in its entirety.

       1.      General. ..................................................................................................................    3
       2.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................        3
       3.      Procedures. .............................................................................................................      4
Table 1.1.     DR Category and Initial Priority Determination ....................................................                            9
       4.      Materiel Improvement Project (MIP) Review Board (MIPRB). ...........................                                           9
       5.      Reporting. ..............................................................................................................     10
       6.      Briefings. ................................................................................................................   10
       7.      Computerized Management Information System (CMIS). ....................................                                       10
       8.      Formal Feedback. ...................................................................................................          10
       9.      Deviations/Waivers. ...............................................................................................           11

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORT INFORMATION                                                                                  12

Attachment 2—TEST AND EVALUATION DEFICIENCY REPORTING PROCESS                                                                                14

Attachment 3—DR SUBMISSION AND RESOLUTION RESPONSIBILITIES AS
             SPECIFIED IN T.O. 00-35D-54                                                                                                     15

Attachment 4—T&E DEFICIENCY REPORT (FOR ILLUSTRATIVE PURPOSES
             ONLY)                                                                                                                           16

Attachment 5—EDWARDS FORM 5474, WIT/DR VALIDATION FORM                                                                                       18
EDWARDSAFBI99-224 1 MARCH 2013                                                                     3


1. General.
   1.1. The deficiency report (DR) is the sole Air Force (AF) action document for use in
   identifying, reporting, resolving, and tracking deficiencies on military systems. DRs are to
   be submitted:
       1.1.1. On weapon systems and munitions under test (including non-production/non-
       fielded items), in operational transition, or undergoing modification. "System” includes
       the total system, or any related subsystem(s), support equipment, software, government-
       furnished assets, and defense contract management assets, to include:
       1.1.2. On items that fail to meet military standards, specifications, contractual
       requirements, operational requirements (i.e., lack of equipment, features, or capabilities),
       or the initial acceptance requirements for new test vehicles.
       1.1.3. When the potential for failure exists, so as to initiate an investigation.
       1.1.4. Even if no corrective action is anticipated, since such documentation provides
       valuable program history and research data to support present and future program
       development and acquisition/management decisions.
   1.2. In our adherence to systems engineering principles that address risk management, a
   DR is to be initiated by any member of the test team, i.e., maintenance, logistics, engineering,
   or flight operations personnel, who believes there’s a system defect, believes the system is
   not providing sufficient utility regardless of specifications or design, or believes there is a
   condition that negatively impacts the Air Force’s efforts to achieve operational safety,
   suitability--ability to use and keep up the system to include life cycle costs, and effectiveness-
   -ability to perform intended mission (OSS&E).
2. Responsibilities.
   2.1. Deficiency Reporting Single Point of Contact Office (SPOCO). The Deficiency
   Reporting Technical Expert serves as the 412 Test Wing’s Deficiency Reporting focal point
   and provides services to include:
       2.1.1. Assisting test organizations in establishing and maintaining DR systems, thus
       ensuring each program’s compliance with T.O. 00-35D-54.
       2.1.2. Delivering DR briefings to each Test Pilot School and New Engineering Training
       class as part of their curriculum or orientation. Annual DR refresher briefings are also
       provided to Edwards AFB test organizations throughout each calendar year.
   2.1.3. Attending HQ AFMC’s Deficiency Reporting, Investigating, and Resolution
   Advisory Council meetings as a representative of the 412th Test Wing, and coordinating with
   HQ USAF/TE, MAJCOMs, AFOTEC, and other services/agencies to address Deficiency
   Reporting-related issues.
       2.1.4. Establishing and maintaining a listing of all DR originating points at Edwards
       AFB. A documentation library of both test and non-test organizations’ DR systems
       will be maintained; including any applicable instructions, OIs, handbooks, forms, or
       worksheets.
 4                                                       EDWARDSAFBI99-224 1 MARCH 2013


     2.2. Test Organizations. The test organization may be a combined, joint, or integrated test
     force, a test team, or an organizational element responsible for test and evaluation. The
     designated Edwards RTO is tasked with submitting DRs during weapon system testing. The
     test organization also initially prioritizes and tracks the status of their released DRs as well as
     Watch Items (WITs). Early in test planning, the test organization will consult the system
     program office (SPO) when determining the transfer of DR responsibility from the test
     organization to a non-test organization for both modified and non-modified assets. 412th Test
     Wing project managers will ensure the test organization stresses the importance of timely
     identification and validation of deficiencies during test planning and test execution.
     2.3. Non-Test Organizations. The Product Improvement Management (PIM) office, 412
     MXG/MXQP, is the designated organization and originating point for all DRs within the
     Edwards AFB aircraft maintenance complex which do not have a test organization as its
     originating point. Deficiency reporting through 412 MXG/MXQP applies primarily to fielded
     operational systems and general support equipment. Any anomalies identified on fielded
     operational systems, which are identified as test assets or components, will be directed back
     to the appropriate test organization's originating point. The responsible originating point will
     be determined prior to the beginning of test or operation of the system. 412 MXG/MXQP
     carries out its responsibilities in accordance with chapters 1, 3, 4, 6, and 7 of T.O. 00-35D-
     54.
3. Procedures.
     3.1. General. The administrative processes for DRs submitted by both test and non-test
     organizations are shown in Attachment 2. Small programs testing one-of-a-kind items will
     use the same basic reporting procedures; however, they may be simplified. Each test
     organization must establish a reporting system, which provides for the review and
     adjudication of all draft DRs (or Watch Items). Detailed definitions and procedures are
     contained in T.O. 00-35D-54. The SPO is the contact point for receipt and control of all test-
     related DRs, including those concerning government-furnished property. The AF Life Cycle
     Management Center (AFLCMC) or Air Force Sustainment Center (AFSC) is the
     screening/action point which determines the applicable support points (contractors) to assist
     in any problem investigation and resolution.
     3.2. Most 412TW test organizations/projects at Edwards AFB use the Joint Deficiency
     Reporting System (JDRS) for the submission of their DRs. (Exceptions include the 461th
     FLTS as well as the mission planning community.) JDRS is a Web-based software tool,
     which provides a comprehensive and standardized process to receive and manage the
     services’ deficiency reports. 412th Test Wing personnel with an “official need” to generate
     an Air Force Deficiency Report can access JDRS via the Web-browser interface at:
     https://jdrs.mil.
     Note: Users must “sign in” with their government-issued Common Access Card (CAC)
     smartcard. In contrast, 412th Test Wing Deficiency Reporting personnel who serve as
     administrative Originating points for their organizations must officially ‘log into’ JDRS and,
     therefore, must apply for JDRS “Site Access” by completing a “New User Registration”
     form, and completing an on-line AFMC Deficiency Reporting training course.
EDWARDSAFBI99-224 1 MARCH 2013                                                                5



  3.3. Forms.
  3.3.1. For non-test organizations, the following forms must accompany defective assets sent
  to the Base Supply organization (412 MSG). (These forms are in addition to any other forms
  that are normally required):
         3.3.1.1. DD Form 1575, Suspended Tag-Material, 2 each
         3.3.1.2. AFTO Form 350, Reparable Item Processing Tag
         3.3.1.3. DD Form 2332, Product Quality Deficiency Report Exhibit, 2 each
  3.4. Control and Administration. For test organizations, control and administration of the DR
  system is the overall responsibility of each combined/integrated test force director, or a
  designee. For non-test organizations, control and administration of the DR system is the
  responsibility of the product improvement manager, 412MXG/MXQP.
     3.4.1. Edwards AFB Control. Each test organization will develop an operating
     instruction (OI) for their DR process. To standardize the basic approaches and ensure the
     intent of T.O. 00-35D-54 is met, each set of procedures should be submitted to the
     Edwards AFB Deficiency Reporting SPOCO for comments and consultation before
     initiation of the DR system. For non-test organizations, T.O. 00-35D-54, Chapter 4,
     governs their processes, and DR tasks will be performed by 412MXG/MXQP.
     3.4.2. Suspense. All DRs will be submitted within time constraints established by T.O.
     00-35D-54. AF Deficiency reporting consists of the following two basic types of reports,
     Category 1 and Category 2, whose suspense start from the date the deficiency is
     discovered. Note: The date discovered is defined as either "the date the problem was
     discovered” or “a WIT was confirmed to warrant a DR." (See Attachment 3 for a sample
     of a test-related DR.)
         3.4.2.1. Category (CAT) 1 DRs. Deficiencies that could: cause death, severe injury,
         or severe occupational illness; cause major loss or damage to equipment or a system;
         or restrict combat or operational readiness are classified as a CAT 1 DR. Suspension
         of testing due to safety of flight may be considered. Full impact of the problem should
         be included to the extent known. CAT 1 DRs are required to be released within 2
         workdays after discovery of the deficiency. Due to the critical nature of CAT 1 DRs,
         use of telecommunication facilities is authorized within security constraints of the
         program. When CAT I DRs pertain to safety or safety-of-flight issues, they will be
         coordinated with the local Safety office.
         3.4.2.2. CAT 2 DRs. A CAT 2 DR does not meet the criteria of a CAT 1 DR and can
         be attributable to errors in workmanship; nonconformance to specifications; system
         not providing sufficient utility regardless of specifications or design; failure
         unacceptable to the submitter; drawing standards or other technical requirements; or
         identifies an enhancement. A DR should be forwarded as CAT 2 only if immediate
         problem resolution is not required. Release of CAT 2 DRs is required within 10
         workdays after validation of the problem.
     3.4.3. Originating Point. The originating point functions will be performed as directed in
     T.O. 00-35D-54, chapter 2. The originating point at Edwards (usually the squadron
6                                                      EDWARDSAFBI99-224 1 MARCH 2013


       commander, or a designee, i.e., Chief Engineer) has control of the system while it is
       being tested, and, therefore, has management responsibility for the DR process within the
       organization. Areas of responsibility include validation procedures, clearance, control,
       and release. Accordingly, the originating point will perform the following duties:
           3.4.3.1. Act as the test team’s focal point for the DR system during testing.
           3.4.3.2. Ensure that WITs and DRs appropriately document reportable conditions.
           3.4.3.3. Ensure CTF representation at SPO-chaired Materiel Improvement Project
           (MIP) Review Board meetings where DRs are adjudicated.
           3.4.3.4. Open and maintain communication with SPO contact points.
           3.4.3.5. Provide direction in making an initial input regarding the prioritizing of DRs.
           3.4.3.6. Aid in the decision-making process concerning release of DRs.
           3.4.3.7. Convene local Watch Item Review Board meetings on a regular basis.
           3.4.3.8. Ensure that WIT/DR-pertinent administrative tasks are accomplished.
           3.4.3.9. Ensure appropriate validation of DRs.
           3.4.3.10. Address activities at deployed locations, such as climatic test sites.
           3.4.3.11. Otherwise ensure appropriate release, distribution, transmission, filing, and
           exhibit control of DRs.
           3.4.3.12. Establish procedures to track the progress and resolution of the DR after
           submittal and to provide feedback to the pertinent parties within the test organization.
    3.5. Watch Item (WIT). At Edwards, WIT generation is a local test team process that may be
    used as a precursor to submitting a DR, when feasible. Whenever a potential condition
    occurs with impact to OSS&E (i.e., malfunction, reliability, compatibility, integration,
    interoperability, safety, vulnerability, survivability, human factors, difficulty of operation or
    maintenance, expense of operation or maintenance, design, utility, maintainability, logistics
    supportability, reparability, quality, environmental, or enhancement), it can be treated as a
    WIT, only to gather additional data needed to assess or validate the condition prior to
    releasing a DR. However, once the condition meets the reportable criteria, no longer keep it
    as a WIT, submit a CAT 2 DR. Note: Any condition that constitutes a CAT 1 DR will be
    submitted immediately, with any supplemental information provided later if necessary, and
    should never be treated as a WIT. WITs shall neither preclude nor replace the DR process,
    nor shall WIT data be construed as representing a DR. When there are WITs written, the test
    organization should implement an internal database to keep the members of the organization
    aware of the various WITs noted over the course of flight testing. If there are any remaining
    WITs in an open, unresolved status at the end of a T&E phase, they will be reconciled by
    submission of a DR, or closed as not a problem. Hence, not all WITs will be upgraded to and
    reported as DRs. The originating point will use tracking, validation procedures, and will
    convene a WIT Review Board to ensure all WITs are appropriately submitted, tracked, and
    adjudicated in a timely fashion.
EDWARDSAFBI99-224 1 MARCH 2013                                                               7


  3.6. Administration. Each major program or CTF has deficiency reporting personnel who
  oversee their day-to-day administrative DR-related issues. For non-test organizations, the
  PIM office handles the daily administrative tasks for DRs.
  3.7. Validation. For test organizations, each DR validation sheet will be coordinated and
  signed by all participating government test personnel (e.g., engineering, operations,
  maintenance, logistics, AFOTEC, etc.) to obtain a general consensus of the test organization.
  Edwards Form 5474, or facsimile, should be used to ensure proper validation (See Atch 5).
  For non-test organizations, the PIM validates any DRs generated.
  3.8. Communication. Transmittal, distribution, and receipt of feedback are maintained via
  the JDRS. Lines of communication are to be kept open between SPO, AFLCMC/AFSC, and
  Edwards AFB personnel. Notification of forthcoming Category 1 DRs will be provided over
  the telephone to the DR contact point and engineering/test personnel at the SPO no later than
  24 hours after discovery provided security requirements are not compromised. All safety and
  safety-of-flight related DRs will be coordinated with the local Safety Office.
  3.9. Release. In the test organization, the CTF director, or an applicable designee, has
  responsibility for the release of all DRs to their respective program office. During testing
  involving both the Edwards AFB and AFOTEC, DRs may be signed and released by either
  the CTF director, or the OT&E test director after validation. If there is any disagreement
  with submittal of a particular DR, that disagreement should be noted in the body of the
  report, but should not preclude the DR’s release. For non-test organizations, the PIM office,
  in accordance with T.O. 00-35D-54 and the Mission Workload Assignment System, D086,
  (https://www.msg.wpafb.af.mil/d086), will release DRs to the appropriate AFLCMC, or
  SPO.
     3.9.1. Distribution. Distribution of DRs to the applicable screening point at the SPO is
     addressed by T.O. 00-35D-54, chapter 4. Each CTF’s DR administrator will maintain
     copies of all released DRs. After DR release, DR distribution will only be done by
     the system’s Program Office personnel.
     3.9.2. Transmission. DRs are transmitted per instructions outlined in T.O. 00-35D-54:
     CAT 1 reports will be transmitted within 48 hours of occurrence and CAT 2 reports
     within 10 days after its validation. Reports containing classified, source selection
     sensitive, competitive prototype, proprietary, or other sensitive information will be
     marked with their appropriate security classification per the program’s security guide.
     Under no circumstance should classified DR information be entered into the Joint
     Deficiency Reporting System, or transmitted via a local computer which has not been
     established specifically for classified data processing. The SPO will be consulted to
     determine the preferred method of transmittal for classified information. All unclassified
     DRs generated should be marked “FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY (FOUO).” All DRs will
     be handled in accordance with AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management;
     AFMAN 33-152, User Responsibilities and Guidance for Information Systems, and AFI
     33-112, Information Technology Hardware Asset Management.
  3.10. Exhibits. The handling and processing of exhibits is outlined in T.O. 00-35D-54,
  chapter 6. An exhibit usually is considered a non-conforming or deficient component that
  needs to be investigated and repaired or replaced. The integrity of the part should be
  maintained by segregating it, thus preventing any undue manipulation of the item, which
8                                                     EDWARDSAFBI99-224 1 MARCH 2013


    could skew or void problem investigation and analysis. In the case of material/quality defects
    of Air Force-owned parts (parts where there is a national stock number assigned), the
    importance of including the following items with an exhibit to assist the evaluation of a DR
    cannot be overemphasized:
       3.10.1. AFTO Form 350 (Reparable Item Processing Tag).
       3.10.2. DD Form 1575 (Suspended tag-material), brown tag, 2 each.
       3.10.3. Two copies of the originator's approved deficiency report.
       3.10.4. DD Form 2332 (Product Quality Deficiency Report Exhibit), 2 each. Note:
       Assets found to be defective upon issue from Base supply must have a copy of its DD
       Form 1574 (serviceable tag-materiel-yellow tag) that was issued with the asset, turned-in
       with the exhibit. The data on this tag are used by the originating point to validate the
       deficiency report and its exhibit. Note that in a test environment, exhibits to a DR are not
       only the malfunctioning items, but can also be photos, drawings, plots, computer tapes,
       memory dumps, video, or documentation that came with the part when issued from the
       Supply organization. These can be forwarded to the screening/action point by the
       originating point to provide further illustrative detail of a problem or condition.
    3.11. Watch Item Review Board (WITRB). Local Watch Item Review Board reviews WITs,
    which may become DRs; agrees to the release of and suggests an initial input towards the
    prioritization of those WITs upgraded to DRs; and, if desired, reviews the status of released
    DRs to ensure satisfactory resolution. The following scheme can be used to assign an initial
    priority designation to a DR by its category in JDRS: Notes:) Prior to the start of testing, the
    test team and program office shall ensure understanding and concurrence with priority
    definitions. If required, definitions may be further expanded on to support the individual test
    program and then cited in its local DR operating instruction. 2) The PM at the program
    office, or an independent test agency, is tasked with drawing in members of the test team, as
    well as representatives from the using command, to make the formal and final decisions as
    to the priority of open, unresolved DRs, e.g., AFOTEC’s Deficiency Analysis and Ranking
    Technique (DART) review.
EDWARDSAFBI99-224 1 MARCH 2013                                                                    9


   Table 1.1. DR Category and Initial Priority Determination

 Submit a CAT 1 DR and assign the corresponding priority when the issue:
             Priority         Impact
 CAT 1       Emergency        If uncorrected, may cause death, severe occupational illness, and no
                              workaround is known, or, if uncorrected, may cause major loss or
                              damage to equipment or a system, and no workaround is known, or
                              prevents the accomplishment of an essential capability or critically
                              restricts OSS&E, to include required interaction with other mission-
                              critical platforms or systems; and no acceptable workaround is known.
             Urgent           Adversely affects an essential capability or negatively impacts
                              OSS&E, and no acceptable workarounds are known, or adversely
                              affects a project’s technical factors, cost, or schedule , or the life
                              cycle support of the system, or, results in a production line stoppage,
                              and no acceptable workaround is known.
 Submit a CAT 2 DR when the condition does not meet the safety or mission impact criteria of a
 CAT 1 report, and assign the corresponding priority when the issue:
 CAT 2       Urgent           Adversely affects an essential capability or negatively impacts
                              OSS&E, and adequate performace is achieved through siginifcant
                              compensation or acceptable workaround, and/or adversely affects a
                              project’s technical factors, cost, or schedule, or the life cycle support
                              of the system, but an acceptable workaround is known.
             Routine          Does not affect an essential capability, but may result in
                              inconvenience/annoyance to user/operator/developer/ maintenance
                              personnel. Adequate performance is achieved through minimal
                              compensation, and it does not prevent the accomplishment of the task.
                              Any other effect, i.e., enhancements having little or no impact to
                              OSS&E under current requirements.
       3.11.1. Watch Item Review Board meetings are convened and chaired by squadron
       commander, or a designee, and is comprised of the local government test team personnel
       representing developmental and operational testers, as applicable. Prime contractor
       involvement as part of an Integrated Product Team or Integrated Test Team is permitted;
       however, attendance should not be viewed as contractual direction to perform work, or as
       providing the contractor with a voice in determining if a WIT should be a DR or closed.
       Board meetings should be held in regular intervals, i.e., weekly or biweekly, so as to
       ensure and encourage participation. At the end of a block or phase of testing, a final
       meeting should be convened to adjudicate any remaining Watch Items.
4. Materiel Improvement Project (MIP) Review Board (MIPRB). A MIP is a planned effort
by the SPO to investigate and resolve deficiencies or to evaluate proposed enhancements once a
DR has been submitted. During T&E, whenever the action point at the SPO, AFLCMC, or AFSC
agrees submittal criteria have been met and an investigation is required, a MIP number will be
assigned. If a MIP number is not assigned to a DR and there is disagreement by the originating
point, then the DR is evaluated at the next highest level. DRs deemed to be “out of scope” of
contract requirements should still receive an adequate investigation to ensure appropriate
resolution.
 10                                                  EDWARDSAFBI99-224 1 MARCH 2013


   4.1. A MIPRB is used by the SPO to review progress towards completion and closure of all
   MIPs during T&E. MIP Review Board meetings are convened by the SPO or the
   AFLCMC/AFSC via video- or teleconference means.
   4.2. MIPRB activities include evaluating the recommended resolution, providing direction
   for additionally required actions, and MIP closure when all required actions are completed.
   The MIPRB reviews the status of DRs in work by the action/support point, and classifies
   them based on where it is in its resolution cycle; for example, open-investigation, open-
   engineering change proposal, open-awaiting fix verification, open-awaiting funding, closed
   as enhancement, closed as investigation complete, closed-administratively, closed and
   verified, and closed-acceptable risk. “Closed-acceptable risk” is a rather recent addition and
   is explained as follows in Technical Order 00-35D-54: ‘If an open DR has not been actively
   investigated within 12 months of the initial deficiency reporting, the reason for delayed
   actions or not funding the investigation shall be noted in JDRS and the DR closed with the
   status of “Closed-Acceptable Risk.” The definition for Closed AR - Acceptable Risk, as
   well as the other DR status codes, is spelled out further in Chapter 4, paragraph 4.10, of
   Technical        Order       00-35D-54,        which        can       be       found        at:
   http://www.tinker.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-111101-010.pdf
   4.3. MIPRB membership will include appropriate government representatives from each
   functional area within the SPO, the test community, the using command, and support
   point(s). Attendance at these meetings by the pertinent CTF personnel is very important. All
   members and attendees should be able to speak and commit for their organizations on the
   issues at hand.
5. Reporting. DRs in an “open” status at the end of test will be listed in an appendix of the
appropriate subject matter technical report. Presentation of the full text of the DR may be
appropriate if space permits. Appearance in multiple reports is appropriate when the DRs cross
discipline lines. Reporting in test reports facilitates preservation of the historical record and
promotes the resolution of weapon system deficiencies discovered during T&E.
6. Briefings. Necessary information for any Installation-level briefing will be forwarded by all
DR-generating organizations to the Deficiency Reporting SPOCO for inclusion. Notification
regarding the format and reporting periods of the requested DR metric information, as well as
any changes to them, will be provided by the Deficiency Reporting SPOCO.
7. Computerized Management Information System (CMIS). The official CMIS for Air
Force test programs is the JDRS. However, test squadrons involved with a large number of
deficiencies should also use a local data system to independently track their WITs before DR
submittal into the JDRS. A prime contractor’s CMIS should not be used as the formal system of
record for DR tracking during government-conducted T&E. For non-test organizations, DRs will
also be submitted and tracked via the JDRS.
8. Formal Feedback. Changes to DR status are noted in the JDRS. The SPO or
AFLCMC/AFSC is required to provide formal feedback for open DRs every 30 days as specified
in T.O. 00-35D-54, chapter 4. Center administrative DR personnel should attain feedback on
their organization’s DRs. The originator is also advised by JDRS e-mail of any feedback, i.e.,
investigation results or closure activity. Upon review of this information, if further action is
warranted, or there is disagreement, this should be communicated back to the SPO, AFLCMC, or
AFSC with concurrence from and through CTF/ITF management as soon as possible.
EDWARDSAFBI99-224 1 MARCH 2013                                                          11


9. Deviations/Waivers. Requests for deviations and waivers for complying with the
requirements set forth in T.O. 00-35D-54, chapter 2, must be done via formal application to
AFLCMC/A3, 2590 Loop Road West, WPAFB, OH 45433, after coordination through the
Deficiency Reporting SPOCO.




                                          MICHAEL T. BREWER
                                          Brig Gen, USAF
                                          Commander
 12                                               EDWARDSAFBI99-224 1 MARCH 2013


                                       Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORT INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005
AFI 33-112, Information Technology Hardware Asset Management, 7 January 2011
AFMAN 33-152, User Responsibilities and Guidance for Information Systems, 1 June 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Record, 1 March 2008
AFMCI 63-510, Deficiency Reporting, Investigation, and Resolution, 2 May 2006
T.O. 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting, Investigation, and Resolution, 1 November 2011
Title 41, Code of Federal Regulations, subpart 101-26-8, Discrepancies or Deficiencies in
General Service Administration or Department of Defense Shipments, Material, or Billings.
Prescribed Forms
Edwards AFB Form 5474, Watch Item/Deficiency Report Validation Form
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFLCMC—Air Force Life Cycle Management Center
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMCI—Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
AFOTEC—Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center
AFSC—Air Force Sustainment Center
AFTO—Air Force Technical Order
CAC—Common Access Card
CAT—Category
CMIS—Computerized Management Information System
CTF—Combined Test Force
DART—Deficiency Analysis and Ranking Technique
DR—Deficiency Report/Deficiency Reporting
EAFBI—Edwards Air Force Base Instruction
EDWARDSAFBI99-224 1 MARCH 2013                             13


HQ—Headquarters
ITT—Integrated Test Team
JDRS—Joint Deficiency Reporting System
MAJCOM—Major Command
MIP—Materiel Improvement Program
MIPRB—Materiel Improvement Program Review Board
OI—Operating Instruction
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSS&E—Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness
OT&E—Operational Test and Evaluation
RTO—Responsible Test Organization
SPOCO—Single Point of Contact Office
SPO—System Program Office
T.O.——Technical Order
T&E—Test and Evaluation
WIT—Watch Item
WITRB—Watch Item Review Board
WPAFB—Wright Patterson Air Force Base
 14                                            EDWARDSAFBI99-224 1 MARCH 2013


                                     Attachment 2
          TEST AND EVALUATION DEFICIENCY REPORTING PROCESS

Figure A2.1. Test and Evaluation Deficiency Reporting Process
   EDWARDSAFBI99-224 1 MARCH 2013                                                                            15


                                                 Attachment 3
     DR SUBMISSION AND RESOLUTION RESPONSIBILITIES AS SPECIFIED IN T.O.
                                00-35D-54

   Table A3.1. DR Submission and Resolution Responsibilities
      ORIGINATOR                     ORIGINATING                  SCREENING/                    SUPPORT
                                        POINT                    ACTION POINT                     POINT
(CTF Test Team Member)         (CTF Director or Designee)     (SPO, AFLCMC, AFSC)           (CONTRACTOR)
Discovers and identifies        Certifies validity,           Receives DRs, and            Provides disposition
deficiency as a WIT or DR.      completeness, and             performs the necessary       instructions to the
                                accuracy of DR.               administrative functions     screening point at the
                                                              to route DR for proper       request of the action
                                                              handling.                    point.
Researches and completes        Monitors DR activity in       Ensures JDRS data base       Performs
draft as required.              JDRS.                         is updated with all          investigation.
                                                              actions.
Determines if noted condition Assigns report control          If no investigation is       Determines what
meets submittal criteria.       number, processes any         required, admini-            corrective
                                exhibit(s), and submits       stratively closes DR with    action is required.
                                DR.                           rationale provided to
                                                              originating point.
                                                              .
Forwards draft to originating Follows up on DR after          If an investigation is       Provides exhibit
point for entering into local   their release and provides required, assigns a MIP         shipping information
data system.                    feedback to originator        number and ensures the       to the action
                                and applicable squadron       investi- gation is           point and dispositions
                                personnel.                    performed, recommended       exhibits, per
                                                              solution is evaluated, and   recommendation of
                                                              need for corrective action   action point.
                                                              is identified by support
                                                              point.
Identifies and secures DR       Provides notification for all Provides administrative
exhibit, as required.           DR-related meetings, e.g., support for convening
                                WIT and MIP Review            MIPRBs with all
                                Board meetings.               applicable parties.
Helps screening point/          Establishes and maintains Ensures DR closures
action point in investigation/ currency of squadron’s         meet closing criteria.
resolution, if requested.       WIT/DR data system.
Serves as the cognizant                                       Ensures exhibit
official throughout the life of                               disposition is made as
the WIT or DR, if possible.                                   appropriate.
  16                                            EDWARDSAFBI99-224 1 MARCH 2013


                                      Attachment 4
        T&E DEFICIENCY REPORT (FOR ILLUSTRATIVE PURPOSES ONLY)

 Figure A4.1. T&E Deficiency Report (For Illustrative Purposes Only)
FROM: 4X FLIGHT TEST SQUADRON, EDWARDS AFB, CA

TO: AFLCMC, WRIGHT PATTERSON AFB, OH

1. SUBJECT: CAT 1 DEFICIENCY REPORT

2. TITLE: KINKED HOSES CAUSED FIRE HAZARD

3. REPORT CONTROL NUMBER:              FA99991000001, 499FLTS
4. DATE DEF DISCOVERED:                9 NOV 2009
5. NATIONAL STOCK NUMBER:              1234-01-123-4321
6. NOMENCLATURE:                       HYDRAULIC FUEL LINE
7. MANUFACTURER:                       GIANT DEFENSE CONTRACTOR
8. MANUFACTURER’s PART NO.:            112-23-234-567
9. SERIAL, LOT, BATCH NO.:             NOT APPLICABLE
10. CONTRACT NO.:                      F33XXX-14-C-00XX
11. NEW, REPAIRED, OR OVERHAUL:        NEW
12. DATE MANUFACTURED:                 UNKNOWN
13. OPERATING TIME AT FAILURE:         UNKNOWN
14. GOVT FURNISHED MATERIAL:           NO

15. QTY:
15A. RECEIVED:                         4
15B. INSPECTED:                        4
15C. DEFICIENT:                        2

16. ITEM WORKS ON OR WITH:
16A. END ITEM:                         F-130H
16B. NEXT HIGHER ASSEMBLY:             F-130H

17. DOLLAR VALUE:                      $1500

18. ITEM UNDER WARRANTY:               NO

19. DETAILS:    DURING HIGH ALTITUDE FLIGHT OR WHILE DOING PRE-FLIGHT
CHECKS, EDWARDS AFB AIRCREW NOTICED FUEL LEAKING FROM THE AFT TANK
LOCATED NEAR THE BOMB RACK ON THE F-130H, AIR VEHICLE #86-1234 ON 9 NOV
09 AT 1805. PILOTS EGRESSED FROM THE AREA AND NOTIFIED ALL PERSONNEL.
SUBSEQUENTLY, THE AREA WAS CORDONED OFF. IN DISCUSSION WITH
MAINTENANCE PERSONNEL, PER TECH ORDER 12-245-00, THE FUEL LINE SHOULD
BE THREE INCHES IN LENGTH. THE F-130H FUEL LINES WERE MEASURED AND 14
 EDWARDSAFBI99-224 1 MARCH 2013                                          17


WERE FOUND TO BE SIX INCHES.

20. TEST CONDITIONS: AIRCREW WAS FLYING TEST POINT 123.4, AIR-TO-AIR
ENGAGEMENT POINT.

21. OPERATIONAL IMPACT: IF UNCORRECTED, THERE IS A POTENTIAL FOR FIRE.

22. RECOMMENDATION: INVESTIGATE AND CORRECT TO PRECLUDE LEAKAGE OF
FUEL FROM THE AFT FUEL TANK.

23. COGNIZANT OFFICIAL/ORIGINATOR: TSGT DAVID WRENCH, DSN 527-9999

RELEASING AUTHORITY:     __________signed____________________________
                          LtCol Mark “DT” Johnson, SQUADRON COMMANDER

(NOTE: IF THERE IS OPERATIONAL TEST INVOLVEMENT DURING DEVELOPMENTAL
TESTING, THEN INCLUDE COORDINATING OFFICIAL SIGNATURE LINE.)

COORDINATING OFFICIAL:___________signed__________________________
                                       LtCol James Livefire, AFOTEC
   18                                                EDWARDSAFBI99-224 1 MARCH 2013


                                          Attachment 5
                  EDWARDS FORM 5474, WIT/DR VALIDATION FORM

 Figure A5.1. Use of Edwards Form 5474
The purpose of this form is to ensure a consensus of WIT/DR content by appropriate disciplines
within the organization. The form may be attached to a WIT and routed to provide awareness of
the WIT and to collect pertinent information, but the primary use is intended for DRs. One copy
of this form should be attached to the WIT/DR worksheet. The originating point should indicate
the OPR on the left side of the "Routing" column and indicate which disciplines should validate
the DR. A DR will normally be prepared in the final format when all appropriate validating
disciplines have coordinated in the "Draft" column and the OPR has addressed all
questions/comments. If extensive changes are subsequently made, the "Revision" column may be
used. When the DR is prepared in final format, the "DR Release Concurrence” block should be
completed by the releasing authority. The "Review Board" block may be used for controversial
DRs. The originating point, section chiefs, and organization director(s) will convene to discuss
these WITs/DRs, and the final outcome will be noted on the validation form.
