BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE
EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE                                               INSTRUCTION 11-212

                                                                           18 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                               Flying Operations

                                                         MUNITIONS REQUIREMENTS FOR
                                                           AIRCREW TRAINING AND TEST

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing websites at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 412 TW/TMGBB                                                         Certified by: 412 TMG
                                                                              (Mr. Brian Hobbs)
                                                                                         Pages: 9




This instruction implements AFI 11-212, Munitions Requirements for Aircrew Training. It
applies to all Air Force units, tenant units, and functional managers who participate in the
munitions requirements process and who fly/conduct test missions or training that involves the
expenditure or captive flight of any air to ground munitions or air to air missiles at Edwards Air
Force Base. It establishes the processes, defines organizational responsibilities, clarifies
individual roles, assists customers in establishing their requirements and streamlines preparation
of the air munitions annual forecast and allocation process. Munitions forecasting is the primary
annual process to identify projected ground, air-to-ground and air to air munitions requirements.
Well-defined munitions forecasting is intended to decrease to a minimum Out-of-Cycle
Requests (OOCR) and to properly identify the 412 TW munitions requirement to the Air Staff
for inclusion in the annual buy budget. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Request for wavers to any part of this
publication must be submitted to the 412th TW Test Management Division (TMG) Director.
 2                                            EDWARDSAFBI11-212 18 DECEMBER 2013


1. References. Details and information for executing the processes are contained in AFI 11-
212, Munitions Requirements for Aircrew Training.
2. Roles And Responsilities.
     2.1. Customer. The person(s) within a squadron, combined test force (CTF) or other
     organization who actually document their organizations individual munitions requirements.
     2.2. Munitions Accountable Systems Officer (MASO). The MASO manages all Department
     of Defense (DoD) and contractor owned stock listed and non-stock listed munitions items
     and is responsible for accounting of these munitions items. While the MASO may not have
     direct physical control of all munitions items at any point in time, they retain
     responsibility for accurate, reliable, and auditable records. Upon receipt from Major
     Command Headquarter Air Force Materiel Command (MAJCOM HQ AFMC)/A4MW, the
     MASO distributes the annual requirements forecast Annual Peacetime Conventional
     Ammunition Forecast Procedures to users who do have a Command Functional Manager.
     2.3. Wing Weapons Officer (WWO). This position is the Test Wing focal point to assist
     customers in developing annual munitions requirements and a projected five-year
     requirements plan. The WWO actively reviews Program Introduction Documents (PID), Test
     Concept Documents, Statement of Capabilities (SOC), Capability and Resource Estimates
     (C&RE), etc., to validate and prioritize test munitions requirements. When
     emergency cases arise, accompanied with a priority justification, the WWO de-conflicts
     need for limited munitions resources between customers. Based on project priority the
     WWO will redistribute allocations to other developmental and test programs as required to
     prevent program slippages. The same process applies to Air to Ground munitions used for
     pilot training. The WWO also coordinates and resolves OOCR between: customers;
     MASO; SEEK EAGLE; System Program Office (SPOs) (aircraft and weapons); and
     MAJCOM Munitions Staff.         In addition, the WWO, coordinates and addresses open
     action items, recommends corrective action or improved processes during regularly
     scheduled meetings and informs the HQ AFMC/A4MW and the Munitions Flight of
     upcoming test programs and their supportability of required test munitions.
3. General.
     3.1. Overview.
        3.1.1. Aircrew members expend munitions during combat, training, operational
        readiness inspections, weapons competitions, exercises, tests, or demonstrations.
        Logistics agencies manage munitions assets and loading procedures in accordance with
        AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, AFI 21-201,
        Conventional Munitions Maintenance Management, and AFI 25-101, War Reserve
        Materiel (WRM) Program Guidance and Procedures.
        3.1.2. It is the responsibility of squadron commanders and CTF directors, flight
        commanders, directors of projects and the WWO to ensure all munitions users submit a
        complete requirements forecast within timeframes identified by HQ AFMC/A4MW
        (munitions management) and this instruction. A complete munitions forecast will be
        submitted in accordance with Annual Peacetime Conventional Ammunition Forecast
        Procedures by customers to the WWO for validation and submission to HQ
        AFMC/A4MW. Due to time constraints involved in the process and severe mission
EDWARDSAFBI11-212 18 DECEMBER 2013                                                           3


     impact, squadron commanders, CTF directors, flight commanders or portfolio managers
     will be notified by the WWO directly and immediately if their organization does not
     submit a complete requirements forecast as required by the Annual Peacetime
     Conventional Ammunition Forecast Procedures.
  3.2. Forecasting Test Air to Ground Munitions Requirements
     3.2.1. In accordance with forecasting instructions provided by Global Ammunition
     Control Point (GACP) and MAJCOM the following processes will apply when
     forecasting for munitions items. Units that have a functional manager assigned at
     command level will forward their forecasts to the MASO for verification of correct
     format, Master Stock Number (MSN), Complete Round Code (CRC), Functional User
     Code (FUC), Requirements Code (REQ), Stock Record Account Number (SRAN),
     Category Codes and organizational account numbers. After verification and correction of
     any discrepancies the forecast will be sent back to the unit for submission to their
     Command Functional Managers. Units that do not have a functional manager at
     command level will forward their forecasts to the WWO.
     3.2.2. Forecast and technical process training will be conducted, documented and
     accomplished jointly by the WWO, MASO and the Munitions Allocation IPT on an
     annual basis. This will mitigate the effects of continual changeover of personnel
     (military and civilian), lack of general forecasting process knowledge, and new or revised
     processes. Training will be conducted during a regularly scheduled Munitions meeting.
     In addition, the WWO will visit each CTF prior to the start of the annual forecasting
     process to heighten awareness and provide instructions to CTF personnel who may be
     integral to the process.
     3.2.3. In late summer (August or September), the WWO will forward to customers the
     Annual Peacetime Conventional Ammunition Forecast Procedures as provided by HQ
     AFMC/A4MW. These Annual Peacetime Conventional Ammunition Forecast Procedures
     will typically provide the requested format and the most current Requirements Codes and
     FUC as well as a suspense date for submission. In addition, the WWO will provide
     customers local direction and the latest copies of the Complete Round Dictionary (CRD)
     and Reportable Item Master File (RIMF), to assist them in completing their forecast
     requirements. During this timeframe, the WWO will perform site visits to the CTFs
     to provide additional information and training to project managers, engineers, and
     operators who may be developing requirements for IPT members. The WWO can be
     requested at any time to assist customers with their forecast requirements. The WWO
     will ensure that all customers are informed of specified suspense dates included in the
     Annual Peacetime Conventional Ammunition Forecast Procedures and provide
     guidance in regards to meeting those suspense dates.
     3.2.4. In the development of test requirements Customers will contact their test
     managers, engineers and applicable SPO in an attempt to capture and complete their
     munitions requirements. Customers then identify munitions requirements based on
     historical usage data, reviewing test plans, personal knowledge and experience.
     Wherever possible test munitions requirements should be associated with specific test
     plans. Where this is not possible due to inconsistencies associated with test plan
     development and the munitions forecasting process, munitions should be identified as
4                                           EDWARDSAFBI11-212 18 DECEMBER 2013


    required for a potential test, and that specific test should be named. This aids the Air
    Staff in making allocation decisions later in the process when there is less than 100
    percent supportability for required items.
    3.2.5. All forecasting units should verify requirements against previous fiscal year
    allocation percentages for possible munitions shortages in developing unit forecasts. This
    will eliminate forecasting for unavailable assets and creating an OOCR. The WWO will
    provide prior year allocation and expenditure data to aid in the process.
    3.2.6. Wherever possible CRCs will be used to forecast for munitions. The only
    exception will be Load Standardization who is required to use Master Stock Numbers
    (MSN). A MSN or DoD Identification Code (DoDIC) is used only when a CRC is not
    applicable or available.
    3.2.7. Customers will complete their forecasts in the HQ AFMC/A4MW approved
    format. This forecast will be sent electronically to the applicable Director of Projects for
    approval and then transmitted to the WWO. The WWO will review the product for
    accuracy, completeness and the required format.
       3.2.7.1. The WWO will examine expenditure data and availability from
       previous years allocations in order to preclude any questions or issues from higher
       headquarters. This will be reviewed with CTF point of contact (POC) prior to WWO
       validation of test forecasts.
       3.2.7.2. The WWO will return forecasts with incorrect format or technical errors for
       correction with a suspense for completion. Upon correction the WWO will then
       compile the completed forecast and forward electronically to the MASO for review.
    3.2.8. The WWO submits the completed 4l2th Test Wing Air to Ground Munitions
    Forecast to HQ AFMC/A4MW for review in the Agile Munitions Support Tool
    (AMST).       HQ AFMC/A4MW reviews forecasts and asks unit for clarification on any
    issues or discrepancies which they may find. The MASO and WWO discuss any issues
    with customer and correct discrepancies. The WWO then resubmits the forecast to HQ
    AFMC/A4MW using AMST and provides a courtesy copy of the completed forecast to
    the Wing Weapons Manager (WWM) for notification of any potential changes to the Test
    and Training Munitions List (TTML). The WWO will notify the WWM of any additions
    to the forecast which occur after the initial submission which would add new item/s to the
    TTML.
       3.2.8.1. HQ AFMC/A4MW hosts the MAJCOM/AF Test Munitions Requirements
       Review Conference in late November. The purpose of this conference is to review all
       requirements for accuracy, ensure that AFMC/A4MW adequately understands
       requirements in order to be able to validate them and adequately defend them at the
       AF Munitions Requirements Conference. In addition training requirements will
       reviewed and validated at this conference. Attendance at the conference is
       encouraged for Operators, Engineers, Project Managers, and Munitions IPT members.
       This provides an opportunity for them to network with others and allows 412 TW
       requirements to be explained adequately, thus ensuring AFMC support for these
       critical requirements. The WWO is required to attend MASO and unit POCs are
       highly encouraged to participate.
EDWARDSAFBI11-212 18 DECEMBER 2013                                                          5


  3.3. Forecasting Aircrew Training Air to Ground Munitions Requirements
     3.3.1. Aircrew Training requirements will reflect AFI 11-2FT, and AFI 11-2 MDS
     specific guidance for items being forecasted. Aircrew requirements will be developed by
     the WWO using the AFMC Multi-Year Training Munitions Requirements Tool. Once
     requirements have been developed the WWO will meet with appropriate unit
     personnel to review training requirements and make adjustments if required based on
     unit input. Upon completion the entire Aircrew Training requirement will be briefed to
     the Operations Group Commander or designee for final approval.
     3.3.2. Requirements for the USAF Test Pilot School will be developed by the WWO
     based on number of students, the number or types of items required to complete syllabus
     events.
  3.4. 412 TW Munitions Allocations Management Process
     3.4.1. Throughout the fiscal year it may become necessary to redistribute munitions
     allocations in order to meet dynamic 412 TW test and training requirements. The WWO
     will schedule and conduct monthly Munitions Allocation IPT meetings, de-conflict
     resources based on project priority and reallocate munitions to support other test
     programs.
        3.4.1.1. Customers will electronically notify the WWO when requesting an allocation
        transfer of assets from other customers in support of their test or training program.
        The request will include CRC or MSN, nomenclature, quantity, category code
        and complete justification to include identification of what test program is being
        supported. The WWO will coordinate and interface with customers when re-
        allocating munitions assets on a priority basis. Direct Transfers of allocations
        will be performed by the WWO in the Agile Munitions Support Tool, (AMST).
        3.4.1.2. When allocations are not available at the 412 TW the WWO will coordinate
        with the WWO at the 96th Test Wing (96 TW), Eglin AFB to secure necessary
        allocations. This coordination will be followed up with an e-mail containing all
        applicable information identified in the above paragraph 3.4.1.1, so the 96 TW WWO
        can use the AMST to perform the direct transfer.
        3.4.1.3. When allocations are unavailable in AFMC, the WWO will contact other
        Commands or ACC/A3TW for support as required. Upon locating allocations an e-
        mail will be transmitted by the WWO to the applicable Command which contains all
        applicable information required to assist them with in performing the necessary
        Direct Transfer of allocation.
     3.4.2. In all cases where allocations are not available on station the WWO will
     coordinate as ear l y in the process as possible with the customer and the MASO to
     ensure that the physical property is available on station to support the new requirement.
     When assets are not available on station the WWO will facilitate discussions between the
     customer and MASO regarding funding to process an un-programmed munitions
     movement.
6                                             EDWARDSAFBI11-212 18 DECEMBER 2013


    3.5. Out-Of-Cycle Requests:
       3.5.1. An OOCR is not to be used as a substitute for poor annual forecasting. It is
       considered a last resort and is to only be used when all other means to secure an
       allocation have failed. Justifiable reasons for an OOCR include: unknown or
       unpredictable test results, new or unplanned test requirements not known at the time of
       forecasting, and unforeseen carryover from fiscal year to fiscal year due to test program
       slippage. The WWO with assistance from the MASO will attempt to locate required
       test allocations and assets from other military installations prior to submitting an
       OOCR.
       3.5.2. The WWO will not normally submit OOCRs to HQ AFMC/A4MW until at least
       75 percent of that munitions resource allocation has been expended at the 412 TW. This
       includes all expendable category codes for that resource. All OOCRs will be endorsed by
       the requesting Director of Projects or CTF Director; whichever is appropriate and
       annotated with additional comments by the MASO. The WWO will validate the request
       prior to forwarding to HQ AFMC/A4MW. If an OOCR is required for an item with more
       than one using organization, the WWO may at his or her discretion submit it directly to
       HQ AFMC/A4M W with all required justification included and no further signatures
       beyond coordination with the MASO required. Submission to HQ AFMC/A4MW does
       not guarantee approval or that munitions assets will be available. Subsequent mission
       impact or test program delay may result from an OCCR requirement.
       3.5.3. An OOCR submitted prior to 75 percent expenditure rate must be accompanied
       by an approved letter of justification, in the AFI 11-212 specified format, signed by the
       requesting Director of Projects or CTF director, whichever is appropriate,
       explaining in detail the justification for the OOCR.          The WWO will approve or
       disapprove the OOCR prior to forwarding to HQ AFMC/A4MW. Single OOCRs
       processed for multiple using organization's requirements for the same items may be
       initiated by the WWO.
    3.6. Expenditure Forecast and Tracking:
       3.6.1. Air-to-Ground munitions are a critical resource for training and test at the 412
       TW. As such, their continued availability is also critical. Munitions allocations are
       currently being tied to the prior year's expenditures. Organizations are expected to ask
       for what is required, and are expected to use what is asked for.
       3.6.2. Each organization will prepare an annual expenditure plan for the munitions which
       they are allocated and submit i t to the WWO by the third week in October each fiscal
       year. This plan should detail by month the munitions items which the organization plans
       to expend.
       3.6.3. Upon receipt of the organizational expenditure plan the WWO will query the
       Agile Munitions Support Tool for organizational expenditures on a monthly basis. This
       information will be provided to each using organization by the WWO in the form
       of a power point presentation and spreadsheet. In addition, the same information will
       be provided to the 412 Operational Group (OG), the 412 Test Management Division
       (412 TMG) Director and the USAF Test Pilot School Commandant. Organizations will
       be required to provide updates to their expenditure plans as they change to the WWO
EDWARDSAFBI11-212 18 DECEMBER 2013                                                          7


     quarterly. Additionally, if expenditures do not meet the organizational plan, the
     organization will provide a non-use alibi. The 412th Test Wing WWO will be notified
     immediately of changes to policy, test plans, or training plans which will negatively
     impact the use of munitions resources so that they can be redistributed and expended
     elsewhere as required or returned to HQ ACC/A3 for redistribution to other Commands.
     3.6.4. Expenditures will be rolled up annually and an overall 412 TW expenditure rate
     will be developed. This information will be provided to the 412 OG, the 412 TMG
     Director and the USAF Test Pilot School Commandant.         Munitions users will use
     this information for forecasting the next year's requirements and provide required
     information, based on these reports, regarding expenditure shortfalls as required by HQ
     AFMC/A4MW and HAF/A5RC.
  3.7. Tactical Air to Air Missile and Captive Air Training Missile (CATM)
  Requirements:
     3.7.1. Air Force CATM are managed through the Tactical Air to Air Missile Program,
     (TAMP) process and are a limited resource. The WWO will annually review the CATM
     requirements document generated by HQ ACC/A3TW Weapons and Tactics Division.
     These requirements are based on number of Air Force aircraft assigned; this does not
     include Backup Aircraft Inventory, Foreign Military Sales aircraft. The WWO will work
     with the aircraft manager to ensure that the numbers and types of aircraft are accurately
     represented in the TAMP captive carry document. Testing which will require CATM's
     in excess of those represented in the document will be identified to HQ AFMC/A3 and
     HQ ACC/A3 immediately to ensure those additional test requirements are included in the
     document.
     3.7.2. Local users will identify to the WWO all projects which require live air to air
     missile shots and targets. They will specifically identify the quantity, type and whether
     telemetry kits are required for each shot.    In addition, users will specify to the
     WWO whether these requirements have been submitted to HQ AFMC/A3 for inclusion
     i n the TAMP. The WWO will contact HQ AFMC/A3 to ensure that requirements have
     been included.




                                          MICHAEL T. BREWER, Brig Gen, USAF
                                          Commander
 8                                          EDWARDSAFBI11-212 18 DECEMBER 2013


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-2FT V1, Flight Test Aircrew Training, 20 Sep 2011
AFI 11-212, Munitions Requirements for Aircrew Training, 8 Apr 2009
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 Jul 2010
AFI 21-201, Conventional Munitions Maintenance Management, 7 Mar 2012
AFI 25-101, War Reserve Materiel Program Guidance and Procedures, 5 May 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFFTC—Air Force Flight Test Center
AMST—Agile Munitions Support Tool
C&RE—Capability and Resource Estimates
CATM—Captive Air Training Missile
CRC—Complete Round Code
CRD—Complete Round Dictionary
CTF—Combined Test Force
DoD—Department of Defense
DDIC—DoD Identification Code
FUC—Functional User Code
IPT—Integrated Process Team
MASO—Munitions Accountable Systems Officer
MSN—-Master Stock Number
MYMRT—Multi-Year Munitions Requirements Tool
OG—Operational Group
OOCR—Out-of-Cycle Request
PID—Program Introduction Documents
REQ—Requirements Code
RIMF—Reportable Item Master File
SOC—Statement of Capabilities
EDWARDSAFBI11-212 18 DECEMBER 2013         9


SPO—System Program Office
SRAN—Stock Record Account Number
TMG—Test Management Division
TAMP—Tactical Air To Air Missile Program
WWO—Wing Weapons Officer
