BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE
EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE                                               INSTRUCTIONS 32-601

                                                                                 27 MARCH 2013

                                                                                 Civil Engineering

                                                                                  WASTEWATER

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 412 TW/CEOI                                                         Certified by: 412 TW/CE
                                                                                (James E. Judkins)
Supersedes:    AFFTCI 32-6,                                                              Pages: 17
               1 December 1995


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive 32-70, Environmental Quality, and Air
Force Instruction 32-7041, Water Quality Compliance. This instruction establishes base policy
and assigns responsibility for wastewater system oversight and operation and for accomplishing
monitoring and reporting requirements of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and associated
publications/directives. It applies to domestic and nondomestic wastewater treatment and
pretreatment systems, including but not limited to collection systems, trucked wastewater, lift
stations, septic tanks, storm water treatment, industrial wastewater treatment, oil-water separators
(OWS), grease traps, and leachate and groundwater treatment facilities. It applies to all
dischargers and emphasizes eliminating, reducing and controlling nondomestic wastewater.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command.              Air Force Personnel must ensure any
information/records to be provided outside official DoD channels, including foreign nationals,
must be released in accordance with the provisions of AFI 35-102, Security and Policy Review
Process, and have the approval of the release authority. If a written request for DoD records has
been made by an persons, organization, business, excluding a Federal Agency, that either
explicitly or implicitly invokes the FOIA, it must be processed by the local FOIA Requester
Service Center (412 CS/SCOK) in accordance with DoDR 5400.7-R_AFMAN-32-302, DoD
Freedom of Information Act Program.
 2                                                  EDWARDSAFBI32-601 27 MARCH 2013



1. Purpose. This instruction implements, AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, and AFI 32-
7041, Water Quality Compliance, The emphasis on environmental pollution prevention and
abatement requires all base activities, including housing occupants, contractors, and tenants who
generate nondomestic wastewater, to review their processes that generate waste and their
disposal procedures. Efforts must be taken to reduce or eliminate the pollutant at the point of
generation, recycle or reuse the pollutant, treat the pollutant and control its discharge. An
effective base program for eliminating, controlling and treating nondomestic wastewater requires
the full support and cooperation of all activities that generate the wastewater. This instruction:
     1.1. Outlines a scoping process for identifying and characterizing waste from point sources
     on base and implementing a waste minimization, control and treatment program to reduce
     and prevent pollution.
     1.2. Prescribes segregation, control, treatment or pretreatment and discharge procedures for
     domestic and nondomestic wastewater.
     1.3. Outlines procedures for industrial discharge permitting, monitoring, testing and
     reporting to regulatory agencies.
     1.4. Designates OPRs for various tasks.
2. Policy
     2.1. Comply with federal, state and local government requirements pertaining to permitting,
     management, treatment and discharge of wastewater. The above requirements take
     precedence if they conflict with this instruction. Assure timely review and submission of
     monitoring reports to regulatory agencies to avoid regulatory noncompliance.
     2.2. Ensure and implement the best management practices for collection of wastewater and
     operation of wastewater treatment systems. Eliminate unpermitted discharges and cross-
     connections between wastewater and storm water collection systems.
     2.3. Conduct wastewater characterization, toxicity reduction evaluations and other studies to
     determine the nondomestic pollutant characteristics and level of treatment needed.
     2.4. Develop consistent base-wide approaches to nondomestic wastewater management that
     apply to all organizations at Edwards.
     2.5. Enforce wastewater discharge policies through the use of point source monitoring, shop
     surveys, and administrative action to prevent treatment system interruptions and discharge
     violations. Compliance problems with nondomestic dischargers will be addressed and
     resolved at Environmental Protection Committee and Environmental Management Board
     meetings.
     2.6. Utilize waste minimization, source reduction techniques, and wastewater pretreatment at
     or near the waste generation point to the extent needed to protect collection, treatment
     facilities, and processes from damage, upset, excessive cost or discharge violations, per
     SWPPP. Where feasible, source waste reduction through material substitution, process
     change and/or administrative change will be preferred over pretreatment.
EDWARDSAFBI32-601 27 MARCH 2013                                                                  3


   2.7. All organizations must obtain permission for industrial wastewater discharge from the
   Base Civil Engineer (BCE), Bioenvironmental Engineering (BEE) and Environmental
   Management (EM).
3. Organizational Responsibilities
   3.1. Civil Engineer Division
      3.1.1. Is responsible for operations and maintenance of sewer lines, pretreatment and
      treatment facilities, pump stations, OWS and other associated facilities around the
      installation including taking timely and appropriate corrective actions when permit limits
      are exceeded.
      3.1.2. Shares approval authority with BEE and EM for requests from organizations that
      generate nondomestic wastewater.
      3.1.3. Reviews the wastewater constituents to determine if the discharge should be
      prohibited, require pretreatment or have other restrictions or controls prior to discharge to
      the collection system.
      3.1.4. Contacts and notifies BEE and EM of all hazardous spills.
   3.2. EM
      3.2.1. Serves as point of contact for all official communications with the regulatory
      community.
      3.2.2. Establishes and publishes technical policy and guidance through this instruction to
      base organizations for collection, treatment, storage and disposal of domestic and
      nondomestic waste. Establishes restrictions on what can be discharged and at what
      volumes and concentrations will be permitted.
      3.2.3. Identifies and maintains a list of all nondomestic/industrial generators with
      discharge requirements by organization, discharge location and responsible point of
      contact/manager.
      3.2.4. Jointly shares approval authority with BCE and BEE for requests from
      organizations that generate nondomestic wastewater, reviews the wastewater constituents
      to determine if the discharge should be prohibited, require pretreatment, or have other
      restrictions or controls prior to discharge to the collection system.
      3.2.5. Assists all industrial wastewater generators to control or eliminate all nondomestic
      waste discharges to the sanitary sewer system.
      3.2.6. Provides environmental awareness training for discharge point contacts/managers
      and refresher training as necessary. Training should address spill response, good
      housekeeping and material management practices.
      3.2.7. Assures wastewater facilities are in compliance with regulatory and base
      requirements and works with BCE and BEE to develop corrective actions where needed.
      3.2.8. Coordinates negotiations for discharge and pretreatment limits, monitoring
      locations and reporting requirements with regulators; maintains permit and reporting
      records.
4                                                  EDWARDSAFBI32-601 27 MARCH 2013


       3.2.9. Ensures compliance monitoring and reporting is conducted, reviewed and
       submitted in a timely manner.
    3.3. BEE
       3.3.1. Assists BCE and EM with required environmental monitoring and identification
       and characterization of nondomestic wastewater dischargers.
       3.3.2. Continue to coordinate on Edwards industrial discharge permits.
       3.3.3. Access health related concerns when releases or sewage spills.
    3.4. Generating Activity
       3.4.1. Controls all waste discharges, except sanitary wastes. The point manager’s name,
       telephone number, area of responsibility and pollutants must be provided to the BCE,
       BEE and EM. Provide updates when any of the information changes, especially discharge
       characteristics.
       3.4.2. Contacts the BCE, BEE, and EM for approval, guidance and nondomestic
       discharge restrictions prior to initiating any discharge. Where pretreatment is required,
       arrangements must be made clearly stating who will inspect, operate, maintain and do
       compliance monitoring at the pretreatment facility.
       3.4.3. Prevents any nondomestic discharge not specifically approved by the BCE, BEE
       and EM. Takes a proactive approach to reducing the volume and concentration of
       discharges through the pollution prevention program by waste elimination, product
       substitution, recycling, process changes, and, when necessary, pretreatment.
       3.4.4. Notifies the BCE, BEE and EM of any unpermitted spills or discharge of
       nondomestic waste.
       3.4.5. Ensures that all personnel working in the generation area are aware of the
       discharge restrictions.




                                            MICHAEL T. BREWER, Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Commander
EDWARDSAFBI32-601 27 MARCH 2013                                                                  5


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Terms and definitions used in this instruction are intended to be consistent with those defined in
40 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) 122 through 136, 40 CFR 401 through 471, 40 CFR 501,
Board Orders issued by the California Regional Water Quality Control and applicable state and
local directives. Terms of interest in this instruction include the following:
Hazardous Waste Management Plan
Installation Restoration Plan (aka Management Action Plan)
Spill prevention Control and Countermeasure Plan
Non-Point Discharge and Stormwater Management Plan
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) for Edwards AFB
Qualified Recycling Program
Prescribed Form
EDWARDSAFB FORM 5852, Permit for Industrial Waste Water Discharge Application

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFFF—Aqueous Fire Fighting Foam
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
BEE—Bioenvironmental Engineering
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
EM—Environmental Management
MSDS—Material Safety Data Sheet
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OWS—Oil-Water Separators
SIC—Standard Industrial Classification
SWPPP—Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan
WWTP—Wastewater Treatment Plant
Terms

Terms and definitions used in this instruction are intended to be consistent with those defined
in 40 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) 122 through 136, 40 CFR 401 through 471, 40 CFR
501, Board Orders issued by the California Regional Water Quality Control and applicable
state and local directives. Terms of interest in this instruction include the following:
Categorical Standards—: National categorical pretreatment standards established for specific
industrial activities.
 6                                                  EDWARDSAFBI32-601 27 MARCH 2013


Domestic wastewater—: Liquid wastes from the domestic laundry, food preparation, and
sanitary facilities in housing, commercial, administrative buildings, industrial facilities and
institutions.
Holding tank waste: Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical toilets,
campers, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum—pump tank trucks.
Industrial user—: Any facility that discharges industrial wastes. They are classified according
to the latest edition of the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, Office of Management and
Budget of the Federal Government of the United States.
Industrial waste—: Any wastes resulting from the process employed in industrial,
manufacturing, trade or business establishments as distinct from domestic wastes.
Interference—: The inhibition or disruption of the Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP)
treatment processes or operations that contributes to the violation of a permit. This includes the
prevention of the sewage sludge use.
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permits—: A permit issued pursuant to
Section 402 of the act (33 United States Code 1342).
Nondomestic wastewater—: Any storm water and any wastewater other than that covered
under the definition for domestic wastewater such as that resulting from industrial production,
paint stripping, metal plating, maintenance and repair, aircraft and vehicle cleaning, power or
heat plant operations, photographic processing, boiler and cooling water discharges and oil and
solvent recovery operations.
Ordinance or code—: A means of regulating discharges to the WWTP collection system by
permit, discharge limits or pretreatment requirements.
Pass—through: The presence in the treatment plant effluent of any pollutant that is not
permitted to be discharged. This occurs when pollutants are sent to a WWTP that is not designed
to remove them.
Pollutant—: Any substance, often regulated by environmental protection standards, that may
have an adverse impact on the environment, such as the chemical and biological constituents of
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, chemical wastes, other biological materials, radioactive
materials, heat, oil, grease, solvents, heavy metals, organic compounds, suspended solids,
surfactants or any toxic or hazardous material discharged into water.
Pretreatment—: The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of pollutants, the
alteration of the nature of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing such
pollutants into the WWTP. The reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or
biological processes or process changes or other means, except as prohibited by dilution (40 CFR
403.6(d)).
Pretreatment Standards: Standards established by the on—base or off-base regulators to
control pollutant loading or concentrations entering the WWTP that may pass through or have
adverse effects on the treatment process or contaminates sludges.
Sanitary sewer—: A sewer intended to receive primarily domestic sewage and some
nondomestic as permitted by this instruction.
EDWARDSAFBI32-601 27 MARCH 2013                                                         7


Storm Sewer or storm drain—: A sewer that carries storm or surface waters and drainage but
excludes sewage and industrial wastes.
 8                                                    EDWARDSAFBI32-601 27 MARCH 2013


                                           Attachment 2
                    GENERAL RESTRICTIONS FOR ALL ACTIVITIES

A2.1. No person will discharge or cause the discharge of any contaminated water except where
prior approval for such discharge is given by the Base Civil Engineer (BCE), Environmental
Management (EM) and Bioenvironmental Engineering (BEE). Any such approval may be
revoked at any time.
A2.2. The BCE, BEE and EM will, from time to time, establish quantitative or other limitations
applicable to industrial waste discharges when it is necessary or to be in compliance with state or
local law or Federal Instructions. Such limitations will apply at the industrial wastewater
monitoring facility or station prior to mixing with domestic wastewaters. Wastewater discharge
in excess of the limits established by the BCE, EM or any state law or applicable Federal
Pretreatment Standards will constitute excessive concentrations or quantities prohibited by this
instruction.
A2.3. No person will discharge or cause to be discharged to the sewage systems, or to any sewer
that directly or indirectly connects to the sewage systems any wastes which:
     A2.3.1. May have an adverse or harmful effect on sewers, maintenance personnel,
     wastewater treatment plant personnel or equipment, treatment plant processes or the quality
     of treatment plant effluent or residue, public or private property, or wastes which may
     otherwise endanger the public, the environment, or create a public nuisance.
     A2.3.2. Can adversely affect air quality, adversely affect water reclamation processes or the
     quality of reclaimed water, cause or contribute to a violation of any requirement of any
     facilities permit, any National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit or Waste
     Discharge Requirements, or place the base in noncompliance with any of the statutory
     authorities listed in Title 40, Code of Federal Instructions, Part403.3(i), or place the base in
     noncompliance with any local, state or federal law including any air quality standard or
     instruction such as the New Source Performance Standards (set forth in Part 60, Chapter I,
     Title 40, Code of Federal Instructions), the National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air
     Pollutants (set forth in Part 61, Chapter I, Title 40, Code of Federal Instructions), or any
     standard or instruction promulgated by the California Air Resources Board or the Kern
     County Air Quality Control Board.
     A2.3.3. Will adversely impact the treatment plant process or degrade the wastewater to the
     point that it could not be treated and reclaimed.
A2.4. Prohibited or restricted wastes described in this section will not be discharged, processed
or stored in such a manner that such wastes could have access to the sewer. Any prohibited or
restricted wastes that cannot otherwise be accounted for will be conclusively presumed to have
been discharged to the sewer.
A2.5. Dischargers will immediately notify BCE, BEE and EM of the accidental discharge of any
prohibited waste, or of the discharge of excessive quantities or concentrations of any restricted
waste. Dischargers will also notify BCE, BEE and EM of any circumstances which may
potentially result in the discharge of a prohibited waste or of excessive quantities or
concentrations of any restricted waste, including but not limited to any malfunction, upset, or
EDWARDSAFBI32-601 27 MARCH 2013                                                     9


improper operation of the discharger’s plant processes, pretreatment systems, or spill
containment facilities, or any diversion or bypass of wastewater.
 10                                                 EDWARDSAFBI32-601 27 MARCH 2013


                                         Attachment 3
               PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED WASTE DISCHARGES

A3.1. Unless approved by Base Civil Engineer (BCE), Environmental Management (EM) and
Bioenvironmental Engineering (BEE), excessive discharges to the sewage system of the
following are not permitted:
   A3.1.1. Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, solvent, fuel oil, or any liquid, solid, or gas that would
   cause or tend to cause flammable or explosive conditions to result in the sewage system or
   that would exceed lower explosive limit or that would create such conditions in the sewage
   system.
   A3.1.2. Toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in such quantities that, alone or in
   combination with other waste substances, may create a hazard for humans, animals, or the
   environment, interfere detrimentally with wastewater treatment processes, cause a public
   nuisance, or cause any hazardous condition to occur in the sewage system.
   A3.1.3. Waste having a pH lower than 6.0 or having any corrosive or detrimental
   characteristic that may cause injury to wastewater treatment or maintenance personnel or
   may cause damage to structures, equipment or other physical facilities of the sewage system.
   A3.1.4. Solids or viscous liquids of such size or in such quantity, condition or nature that
   they may cause obstruction to flow in the sewer or be detrimental to proper wastewater
   treatment plant operations. These objectionable substances tend to solidify in the sewer and
   obstruct wastewater flow.
   A3.1.5. Rainwater, storm water, groundwater, street drainage, subsurface drainage, roof
   drainage, yard drainage, water from yard fountains, ponds or lawn sprays into the sanitary
   sewers.
   A3.1.6. Water added for the purpose of diluting wastes which would otherwise exceed
   applicable maximum concentration limitations, except as approved in the wastewater
   discharge permit and as recommended by the Material Safety Data Sheet.
   A3.1.7. Petroleum or mineral-based cutting oils, commonly called soluble oil and which
   form persistent water emulsions.
   A3.1.8. Non-biodegradable oil, petroleum oil or refined petroleum products.
   A3.1.9. Dispersed biodegradable oils, fats and greases such as lard, tallow or vegetable oil.
   A3.1.10. Cyanide.
   A3.1.11. Any wastes containing excessive quantities or concentrations of Biological Oxygen
   Demand, Chemical Oxygen Demand or other oxygen demanding substances.
   A3.1.12. Mercaptans, phenols or any strongly odorous material or material tending to create
   odors.
   A3.1.13. Dissolved sulfides above a concentration of 0.1 milligram/liter or wastes which
   contribute to excessive sulfide production.
EDWARDSAFBI32-601 27 MARCH 2013                                                                   11


   A3.1.14. Dissolved silica, dissolved aluminum or other substances including high pH
   material which cause encrustations, scale or precipitates on sewer walls or other similar
   adverse effects on the sewage system.
   A3.1.15. Waste having an excessively high temperature; any waste having a temperature of
   140oF or higher, or which may cause the wastewater influent to a treatment plant to exceed
   104oF.
   A3.1.16. Thiosulfate or any other waste constituent which requires treatment chemical
   dosage applications above levels normally used in the operation of the sewage systems.
   A3.1.17. Toxic organic, chlorinated hydrocarbon or organic phosphorus-type compounds.
   A3.1.18. Any waste containing substances that may precipitate, solidify, gel, polymerize or
   become viscous under conditions normally found in the sewage system.
   A3.1.19. Any waste producing or contributing to discoloration of wastewater or treatment
   plant effluent.
   A3.1.20. Garbage or waste, other than domestic wastewater, that is not ground sufficiently to
   pass through a 3/8-inch screen.
   A3.1.21. Iron, manganese, boron, chromium, phenols, plastic resins, copper, nickel, zinc,
   lead, mercury, cadmium, selenium, silver, arsenic or any other materials toxic to humans,
   animals, the environment or to biological or other wastewater treatment processes.
   A3.1.22. Any blow-down or bleed water from cooling towers or other evaporative coolers
   exceeding one-third of the makeup water.
   A3.1.23. Any single pass cooling or heating water.
   A3.1.24. Radioactive material wastes.
   A3.1.25. Detergents, surface active agents, or other substances, which may cause foaming in
   the sewage system.
   A3.1.26. Chlorides, fluorides, sulfates, borates or any other materials that can pass through
   treatment facilities and degrade water quality or limit reuse of the wastewater.
   A3.1.27. Ammonia from sources other than human wastes.
   A3.1.28. Benzene or other volatile organic compounds or any other waste constituent that
   alone or in combination with other materials adversely affects air quality or reduce the reuse
   potential of the treated wastewater.
A3.2. Other Restrictions. The BCE, BEE and EM will establish quantitative limitations for
dischargers which, because of their location, quantity or quality of discharge, can degrade the
quality of waste water treatment plant effluent or residue or air quality to a level that prevents or
inhibits efforts to reuse or dispose of the water or residue or causes any unusual operation or
maintenance problems in the sewage system. The BCE, BEE and EM, in determining the
unacceptability of specific wastes, will consider the nature of the waste and the adequacy and
nature of the collection, treatment and disposal system available to accept the waste.
 12                                                EDWARDSAFBI32-601 27 MARCH 2013


                                        Attachment 4
         SPECIFIC DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS FOR LISTED ACTIVITIES

A4.1. The following is a list of nondomestic wastewater generators with appropriate restrictions
and disposal methods:
   A4.1.1. Aqueous Fire Fighting Foam (AFFF). Minor quantities of this product can
   apparently disrupt the operation of the sewage treatment process, by destroying the oxygen
   source and beneficial aquatic organisms. In general AFFF will not be permitted to enter the
   sanitary sewer system. Exceptions to this rule may be permitted by Base Civil Engineer
   (BCE), Environmental Management (EM) and Bioenvironmental Engineering (BEE), if the
   volume is sufficiently low and downstream dilution will render the AFFF relatively harmless
   or if benign formulations are utilized.
   A4.1.2. Battery Shops. Slurry from spent battery acid will not be discharged into either the
   sanitary sewers or storm sewers. It will be properly containerized, labeled and disposed of
   through Hazardous Waste Storage Facility, in accordance with the base’s Hazardous Waste
   Management Plan and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. The following facility
   maintains batteries: Facility Number 1600, 412th Test Wing Maintenance Shop.
   A4.1.3. Civil Engineer Division
       A4.1.3.1. Power Production and Mechanical Shops (boilers and air conditioning
       systems). Waste oil generated will be collected and recycled. Waste ethylene glycol may
       not be disposed into the sanitary sewer system.
       A4.1.3.2. Heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems do generate wastewater from:
       boiler blow down, cooling tower, chilled water piping systems and heating hot water
       systems. The types and quantities of chemicals used for treating these mechanical
       systems will be periodically reviewed. Discharging these chemicals will be in
       compliance with their Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS).
       A4.1.3.3. The quantity of the bleed off and overflows from cooling towers and
       evaporative coolers effect the sewage collection and treatment systems, as well as water
       resources. Efficient operation including electrical conductivity monitoring of cooling
       tower water will reduce the waste to a minimum. Evaporative cooler drains and bleed off
       flow rate will be periodically checked and adjusted to minimize the waste, while still
       preventing mineralization fouling of the evaporative media. These duties will be part of
       the routine operation and maintenance of the equipment item.
   A4.1.4. Contaminated Storm Water/Groundwater from Fueling Facilities. Rainwater or
   groundwater contaminated with petroleum products cannot be discharged into sanitary or
   storm sewers. The contaminated waters will be pretreated prior to discharge. The treated
   clear wastewater discharged from oil/water separators and emergency holding basins can
   only be permitted after testing, reviewed and approved by both EM and BEE. The following
   facilities are included in this category:
        Facility Number 130, Jet Fuel Storage
        Facility Number 182, Motor Vehicle Fuel Dispensing Area at Hangar 182
        Facility Number 1422, Truck Fill Stand
EDWARDSAFBI32-601 27 MARCH 2013                                                               13


      Facility Number 1734, Truck Fill Stand
      Facility Number 1873, Jet Fuel Storage and Dispensing
      Facility Number 2560, Jet Fuel Storage
      Facility Number 3807, Jet Fuel Storage and Dispensing
      Facility Number 4511, Jet Fuel Storage and Dispensing
      Facility Number 4927, Jet Fuel Storage
      Facility Number 4928, Jet Fuel Storage
      Facility Number 4934, Jet Fuel Storage
      Facility Number 4935, Jet Fuel Storage
      Facility Number 4936, Jet Fuel Storage
  A4.1.5. Engine Maintenance. Wastewater from jet engine disassembly, inspection and
  reassembly will be collected and pretreated prior to discharge to the sanitary sewage system.
  Hazardous solvents including Tetrachloroethylene are not permitted to enter the sanitary
  sewage systems, unless concentrations are reduced to acceptable levels established by federal
  and state law and as directed by EM. Concentrated solvents will be collected and recycled,
  as much as possible. Non-hazardous cleaning solvents, which have passed through a
  properly designed and maintained pretreatment process, can be discharged to the sanitary
  sewage system. None of this waste may be discharged to the storm water system. These
  limitations apply to the following facilities:
      Facility Number 3800, Jet Engine Maintenance
      New Main base Jet Engine Maintenance Facility
      Facility Number 160, Jet Engine Inspection and Maintenance Shop
  A4.1.6. Facility Number 1608, 412th Test Wing Nondestruct Inspection Facility.
  Discharges of dye penetrant will not exceed the recommended levels identified in the
  manufacturer’s MSDS. The MSDS will be the basis for determining pretreatment
  requirements.
  A4.1.7. Maintenance Hangars: Hydraulic oil, jet fuel, and cleaning solvents will be
  collected and recycled. Spray paints will be disposed through Edwards Air Force Base
  Hazardous Waste Disposal Facility, using properly regulated procedures. The existing floor
  drains provide emergency protection for fire water overflows and will not be used for the
  disposal of any hazardous waste. Floor drains, sumps and oil-water separators will be
  periodically inspected to determine if illicit discharges have occurred. If illicit discharges
  directly to the storm sewage system occur, an investigation to determine the types and
  quantities released will be done, in order to develop a clean up plan. The following facilities
  are in this category:
      Hangar Number 1207
      Hangar Number 1210
      Hangar Number 1600
      Facility Number 1622
      Hangar Number 1623
      Hangar Number 1635
      Hangar Number 1864
      Hangar Number 1870
14                                                 EDWARDSAFBI32-601 27 MARCH 2013


      Hangar Number 1874
      Hangar Number 1881
  A4.1.8. Medical and Infectious Waste. Infectious wastes will be rendered noninfectious
  prior to discharge if deemed to pose a threat to public health and safety. No person will
  discharge solid wastes from hospitals, clinics, medical laboratories or other medical facilities
  to the sewage system including, but not limited to, hypodermic needles, syringes,
  instruments, utensils or other paper and plastic items of a disposable nature, or recognizable
  portions of the human anatomy or laboratory animals, except where prior written approval
  for such discharges is given by the BCE, BEE and EM.
  A4.1.9. Pest Management Shop. Pesticides and related pesticide wastes will not be
  discharged into the sanitary sewers at any time. This material will be reused or disposed of
  through AFTC/EMCO in accordance with the base’s Hazardous Waste Management Plan
  and Code of Federal Instructions, Title 40, Section 165 (40 CFR 165).
  A4.1.10. Septage. Concentrated sewage from septic tanks and chemical toilets can be
  discharged to the domestic wastewater treatment plant. There is essentially unresticted
  discharge of domestic septage from on base septic tanks, except the flow rate can not
  overload the treatment plant and the septic tank can not be connected to an industrial waste
  drain. Since chemical toilet wastes contain biocides including formaldehyde, these waste
  will need permit authority. The concentrations and types of biocides will have to be
  identified along with the contractor’s permit application. The MSDS for all proposed
  biocides must be submitted along with permit application.
  A4.1.11. Washing Activities. Rinsewater from the following activities can discharge to the
  sanitary sewer system via a properly maintained and functional gravity OWS, provided the
  rinsewater does not contain solvents or fuel.
      Aircraft wash activities
      Aircraft ground equipment washing activities
      POL vehicles and equipment washing activities including:
      Facility Number 1435, 412th Test Wing Vehicle Maintenance Shop
      Facility Number 1617, Fire Station Number One
      Facility Number 1866
      Facility Number 2110, Army Air Force Exchange Services Gas Station
      Facility Number 2450, Services Automotive Hobby Shop
      Facility Number 3510, Vehicle Maintenance Shop
      Facility Number 5560, Fire Station Number Two
EDWARDSAFBI32-601 27 MARCH 2013                                                                  15


                                         Attachment 5
     PERMIT FOR INDUSTRIAL WASTE WATER DISCHARGE APPLICATION
                      (EDWARDSAFB FORM 5852)

Figure A5.1. Permit For Industrial Waste Water Discharge Application
In consideration of the granting of a wastewater discharge permit, the applicant agrees:
1. To furnish any additional information on industrial wastewater discharges as required.

2. To accept and abide by all provisions of Edward Air Force Base Instruction 32-6.

3. To operate and maintain any required industrial wastewater treatment devices in a
satisfactory, approved manner.

4. To cooperate at all times with Environmental Management (EM), Bioenvironmental
Engineering (BEE) and Civil Engineer Division personnel, or their representatives, in the
inspection, sampling and study of industrial wastewater facilities and discharges.

5. To immediately notify BEE and EM in the event of any accident, negligence or other
occurrence that causes the discharge to the sewer of any material whose nature and quantity
might be reasonably judged to constitute a hazard to the public health, environment, personnel or
wastewater treatment facilities.

6. To submit, as required, accurate data on industrial wastewater discharge flows and
wastewater constituents.

7. To operate only one industrial wastewater discharge point to the sewage system under the
authority granted by this permit.

8. To submit additional pages as required to furnish the necessary information if there is
inadequate room on the reverse side of the permit form to complete submittal of requested data.

9. To apply for a revised Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit if any change in industrial
processes, method of wastewater treatment or operations creates a significant change in
industrial wastewater quality or if the quantity of wastewater discharged changes by more than
25% or other threshold level as specified in industrial waste permit requirements.

10. To provide immediate access to authorized personnel to any facility directly or indirectly
connected to the sewage system under emergency conditions and at all other reasonable times.

11. The discharger will amend the wastewater discharge permit whenever there is a change in
construction, operation, or maintenance which may affect the discharge of pollutants to the
sanitary sewer or the base’s storm drainage system.
 16                                                 EDWARDSAFBI32-601 27 MARCH 2013


Figure A5.2. Line by Line Instructions for Completing the Permit Application,
EDWARDSAFB FORM 5852
Line 1: Sewer Connection Category. Check the appropriate category. Please indicate
whether the proposed discharge is to an existing sewer connection or if a new industrial
wastewater connection is required.

Line 2: Applicant. The legal name of the company or Department of Defense Office Symbols
responsible for the wastewater to be discharged must be indicated on line 2. The contractor,
plumber, or consultant must not be listed.

Line 3: Facility Number.

Lines 4 and 5: Address and Point of Discharge. The mailing address of the applicant should
be provided on line 4. On line 5, specify the point of connection to the sewer or storm drain
by using distance from nearest street intersection, or any other means of identification.

Line 6: General Description of Type of Industry. Give a general description of the type of
business the applicant operates. The Federal Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) Number(s)
must be provided. This number is obtained from the Federal SIC Manual. Air Force Facilities
are listed by Category Codes. This number is obtained from 412 TW/CEAO, Real Estate
Management Branch.

Lines 7: Raw Materials Used. Provide a brief description of the types and quantities of the
major raw materials used at the facility and of the wastewater produced on line 7

Line 8: Wastewater Producing Operation. On line 8 give a full and detailed description of
the operations which generate the wastewater to be discharged. A more complete and
comprehensive description of the raw materials produced, products and process operations may
need to be submitted as additional information in an accompanying letter. Provide:

a) A description of potential sources which may be expected to add significant quantities of
pollutants to sanitary or storm water discharges. Specific material handling procedures, storage
requirements, and clean-up equipment and procedures should be identified, as appropriate.
Internal reporting, as well as coordination with other activities including Base Civil Engineer
(BCE), Environmental Management (EM) and Bioenvironmental Engineering (BEE), for spills
of significant materials shall be established.

b) A narrative of existing and non-structural control measures (if any) to reduce pollutants to
the sanitary and storm drainage systems.

c) The type, capacity, condition, etc. of any existing or proposed industrial wastewater
treatment facilities (if any).

d) Methods of on-site storage and disposal of significant materials.

e) Outdoor storage, manufacturing, and processing activities including activities that generate
EDWARDSAFBI32-601 27 MARCH 2013                                                                    17


significant quantities of dust or particles.
f) The sewage and storm water management controls appropriate for the facility. The selected
controls shall reflect identified potential sources of pollutants at the facility.

Line 9: Time of Discharge. Indicate the appropriate time and days of the proposed
wastewater discharge. If the time and days of wastewater discharge do not coincide with the
working hours, this must be discussed in an accompanying letter.

Line 10: Wastewater Flow Rate. Provide the average industrial wastewater flow rate in
gallons per day for existing facilities. The peak flow rate (in gallons per minute) must also be
provided on line 10. This is the rate at which wastewater is discharged to the sewer system
during the single highest 30-minute discharge period. Estimates will be acceptable for new
facilities only.

Line 11: Constituents of Wastewater Discharge. Give a general description of the materials
or chemicals which may be present in the industrial wastewater discharge. For existing facilities, a
chemical analysis of the wastewater by a certified laboratory must be furnished. Such analyses
must include values for chemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and any other chemicals
associated with the raw materials used at the facility. New organizations which are not yet
generating wastewater must submit estimates for these parameters. Provide a list of pollutants that
are likely to be present in storm water discharge in significant quantities, and an estimate of the
peak and annual quantities of these pollutants. List significant spills including toxic chemical
(listed in 40 CFR Part 372 and 40 CFR Part 110, 117 or 302 for oil or hazardous substances or
Board Order limits) that have been discharged as reported on United States Environmental
Protection Agency Form R.

Line 12: Industrial Wastewater Contact. Print the name, position and telephone number of
an official who has working knowledge of the operations producing the wastewater, is
responsible for the industrial wastewater discharge and may be contacted for further
information. If someone other than the individual listed on line 12 is to be the contact person
for permit processing purposes, such as a contractor, plumber or consultant, the permit
processing contact person should be specified in an accompanying letter. Identify specific
individuals (and job title) that are responsible for developing, implementing, and revising the
storm water pollution prevention plan. Identify specific individual(s) responsible for
preventative maintenance including inspection and testing of equipment and systems that could
fail and result in discharge of pollutants to the sewage or storm water systems.

Lines 13 to 15: Signatures. This permit application form must be signed and dated by an
administrative officer. The signature of a contractor, plumber, or consultant will not be
acceptable

Lines 14 and 15: Approval Signatures. The signatures of BCE, BEE and EM are required to
establish a valid Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit.
