BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE
EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE                                                INSTRUCTION 99-105

                                                                              23 JANUARY 2014

                                                                             Test and Evaluation

                                                             TEST CONTROL AND CONDUCT


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 412 OG/CD                                                           Certified by: 412 OG/CC
                                                                          (Col Rodney F. Todaro)
                                                                                         Pages: 11
Supersedes:    AFFTCI 99-105,
               1 April 2008


This publication implements Air Force Instruction 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and
Evaluation. This instruction specifies the responsibilities of key personnel and procedures for
the control and conduct of flight and ground testing for which the 412th Test Wing (TW) is
responsible. It presents guidelines on the preparation of test procedures and test cards, test team
member qualifications and training, and control room procedures for test missions that require
some form of real-time data monitoring and control. It applies to all 412th TW units and
detachments regardless of their operating location. It also applies to those Air National Guard
and Air Force Reserve units supporting flight and ground testing for which the 412th TW is
responsible. This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must
be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval.
Requests for waivers must be submitted to the OPR listed above for consideration and approval.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office
of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command.
 2                                                   EDWARDSAFBI99-105 23 JANUARY 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is updated to include changes to organizations and instructions as applicable at
the time of revision as a result of the AFMC 5-Center reorganization and consolidation of the
412th TW and the 95th Air Base Wing (ABW). Changes were also made to control room
personnel crew rest requirements.
1. General:
     1.1. This instruction applies to both flight and ground tests. References to flight tests apply
     equally to ground tests when in support of a test plan.
     1.2. Test organizations at the 412th TW will conduct flight and ground tests in accordance
     with an approved test plan (AFFTCI 99-101, Test Plans) and an approved safety plan
     (AFFTCI 91-105 Test Safety Review Process). The Combined Test Force (CTF) director,
     United States Air Force Test Pilot School (USAF TPS) Commandant, squadron commander,
     or project manager will prepare written procedures in order to implement the provisions of
     this instruction and execute the test activity as stated in the test plans. This instruction is not
     intended to cover system check-outs or maintenance trouble-shooting.
     1.3. Overall Safety. Test personnel must recognize that no guidance on test conduct can be
     all- encompassing to the extent that test execution becomes mechanical. Test card content
     and procedures should not be taken as direction to do something unwise. Test aircrew,
     engineers, technicians, control room personnel, and maintainers should not hesitate to point
     out at any time circumstances that will (in their judgment) put the aircraft or crew in an
     unplanned hazardous situation. In short, each member of the test team must communicate
     (beyond challenge and response level) to resolve unforeseen situations which may occur.
     1.4. Overall Security. Test personnel will adhere to appropriate security protocol at all times
     in order to protect sensitive and classified information. Classified data will be properly
     marked and will be shared on a “need-to-know” basis only with those individuals holding the
     requisite security clearance. For more information on the distributing and safeguarding test
     information, please reference AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation.
2. Policies:
     2.1. Qualification and Training:
        2.1.1. Test organizations will ensure personnel conducting flight test are current and
        qualified in the duties they are required to perform in support of test operations or under
        the supervision of a qualified instructor. Test organizations will document aircrew
        training, qualification, and currency to perform specialized flight test events. This
        includes but is not limited to photo and/or safety chase, high angle of attack testing,
        munitions deliveries, and air drop of cargo or paratroopers. Medium and high-risk events
        in manned aircraft crewed entirely by individuals other than graduates of a test pilot
        school will be permitted only if documented in the safety package and approved by the
        test approval authority. Individuals other than test pilot school graduates may crew with
        test pilot school graduates in elevated-risk missions at the discretion of the test force
        director, USAF TPS Commandant or squadron commander. Test organizations will
        ensure that aircrew members operating an on-board data acquisition system receive
        training in the proper operation of these systems.
EDWARDSAFBI99-105 23 JANUARY 2014                                                               3


     2.1.2. Test organizations will establish a training and checkout curriculum for test
     directors and test conductors (See EAFBI 99-108, Flight Test Control Room Personnel
     Training and Evaluation). The CTF Director, USAF TPS Commandant, or squadron
     commander will approve qualifications and authorize control room personnel to perform
     their duties, and will designate instructor test directors and/or conductors to conduct and
     document initial and/or recurring checkouts of test directors and test conductors during
     test/simulated missions. Test activities will ensure that all other essential control room
     personnel receive training appropriate to their assigned task and receive an evaluation
     prior to performing unsupervised control room activities.
     2.1.3. Test organizations through the maintenance group will ensure that maintainers and
     instrumentation technicians are qualified to perform their required duties through
     appropriate training prior to working on test articles and conducting ground or logistics
     tests. The test organization is responsible for any test-unique training or qualifications on
     equipment or capabilities not currently fielded. Test organizations will ensure that all
     personnel operating data acquisition systems receive training in the proper operation of
     the system.
  2.2. Test Conduct:
     2.2.1. All ground test and flight test events executed under a test plan will be conducted
     from approved test cards or written test procedures. Each flight test organization will
     establish and maintain a unit test card development and coordination process that
     includes procedures for updating and approving changes to test cards based upon lessons
     learned.
     2.2.2. Flight test cards will contain the following minimum information, as applicable:
         2.2.2.1. aircraft configuration with weight and balance as applicable
         2.2.2.2. aircraft operating limits critical to the test point
         2.2.2.3. test limits
         2.2.2.4. initial conditions
         2.2.2.5. challenge and response items: flight test technique
         2.2.2.6. allowable data bands
         2.2.2.7. maneuver parameters with associated abort, terminate and/or knock-it-off
         tolerances. For diving maneuvers with less than eight seconds of time safety margin
         (defined in AFI 11-2FTV3, EAFB Sup 1 Flying Operations), the following additional
         requirements will be on the test cards:
             2.2.2.7.1. maneuver parameters that define the worst-case vector upon which the
             time safety margin was based, to include:
                 2.2.2.7.1.1. dive angle
                 2.2.2.7.1.2. bank angle
                 2.2.2.7.1.3. airspeed
                 2.2.2.7.1.4. load factor (g)
4                                             EDWARDSAFBI99-105 23 JANUARY 2014


               2.2.2.7.1.5. altitude
           2.2.2.7.2. time safety margin
           2.2.2.7.3. maximum terrain height in test area if altitude not listed in AGL
           altitude
           2.2.2.7.4. any other maneuver parameter and associated tolerance documented in
           the test safety package
       2.2.2.8. maneuver recovery procedure(s) that includes applicable tolerances
       2.2.2.9. data acquisition system settings
       2.2.2.10. risk level
       2.2.2.11. go or no-go criteria
       2.2.2.12. test card number
    2.2.3. The risk level of each mission will be annotated on the schedule in the remarks
    section of Center Ops On-Line (COOL). Based on the risk level of the test card package,
    each commander’s approval signature is valid for a specific approval period listed below
    (i.e. for a 14-day approval period, if the approval signature was on 1 May, then the test
    may be executed through the end of the day on 15 May without obtaining an updated
    approval signature).
       2.2.3.1. Low Risk: SQ/CC approval signature valid for 30 days.
       2.2.3.2. Medium Risk: OG/CC approval signature valid for 14 days. Submit test card
       packages for initial approval to OG/CC no later than three business days prior to
       desired test execution date (one full business day prior when requiring updated
       approval signature).
       2.2.3.3. High Risk: TW/CC approval signature valid for 14 days. Submit test cards or
       test procedures for initial approval to OG/CC no later than five business days prior to
       desired test execution date (two full business days prior to the OG/CC when requiring
       updated approval signature).
    2.2.4. All test missions will be pre-briefed in accordance with 412th TW briefing
    guidelines (See OG OI 11-5 Briefing/Debriefing and Flight Briefing Room
    Requirements). All applicable safety package test hazard analyses (AFFTC Document
    5028A, Test Hazard Analysis), along with the general minimizing considerations
    (AFFTC Document 5028, Test Project Safety Review (Initial or Amendment)) for all test
    events, will be briefed regardless of risk level. The AFFTC Document 5028 requirements
    take precedence over those specified in the test plan. Test termination criteria and
    coordination with the ground control center will be briefed, as applicable.
    2.2.5. Test events will be executed per the briefed test card and/or procedure unless
    safety would be compromised. If, in the opinion of the test director or test pilot and/or
    pilot in command, safety will be compromised, the test point will not be executed. The
    test conductor may make real-time, minor adjustments to the cards as long as the
    parameters involved are not safety-of-flight related. An example of a minor adjustment
    would be to move the aircraft altitude up 5,000 feet to avoid a bank of clouds.
EDWARDSAFBI99-105 23 JANUARY 2014                                                                   5


      2.2.6. All test missions will be debriefed to ensure that test results are properly
      documented. To the maximum extent possible, all test aircrew, the test director, test
      conductor, control room engineering representatives, and chase/support aircrew should
      attend the debriefing. Test organizations will ensure that daily flight or system test reports
      are completed and that the test data are properly transmitted to the appropriate data
      analysis agency. Deficiencies found during the test will be recorded and a unit flight crew
      information file (FCIF) notice created, if appropriate. Lessons learned from the test will
      be captured and incorporated into changes in the test cards. Unexpected events must be
      reported and investigated, as required by AFFTCI 91-105.
   2.3. The minimum level of test control will be determined during the safety review process
   and documented in the safety plan for the test activity.
3. Procedures:
   3.1. Control Room Procedures:
      3.1.1. A control room is defined as any facility, ground or airborne, that provides two-
      way communication with the aircrew and capability to monitor safety of flight, safety of
      test, or other real-time information required to ensure safe & effective test execution.
      These instructions apply to ground control room operations and to situations where the
      test conductor and other key personnel are airborne in test or support aircraft. A control
      room must provide the ability to monitor and analyze real-time data, giving point-to-point
      clearance if a build-up sequence is specified in the safety plan. Each test organization will
      develop a written test control procedure to comply with the following guidance.
      3.1.2. Every individual in the control room shall be trained in his or her responsibilities
      and must be familiar with the responsibilities of others in the control room.
      3.1.3. The test conductor will review the below standardized list of unambiguous
      challenge-and-response commands (i.e., the test conductor challenges and the test pilot
      responds) at the flight test briefing. Test team personnel (i.e., test and/or chase pilots, test
      conductor, control room personnel) will use these challenge-and-response calls for each
      test point. The test conductor must be familiar with pilot workload so that challenge-and-
      response items will have proper pacing. As necessary for safety-of-flight, test team
      personnel may make additional calls to direct the test aircrew to cease flight test
      execution and initiate the planned immediate recovery procedure.
          3.1.3.1. “Complete” – informs flight test crews the desired event is complete.
          3.1.3.2. “Terminate” – ceases flight test execution when continued maneuvering or
          progress will not achieve desired results. Note, remotely piloted aircraft (RPA) flight
          test will not use terminate to cease maneuvering. For RPA flight test, "Terminate" is
          reserved for aircraft termination
          3.1.3.3. “Abort” – alerts flight test crews that planned maneuver limits will be
          exceeded, and directs aircrew to initiate the planned recovery procedure immediately.
          3.1.3.4. “Knock-it-off” – alerts flight test crews that a dangerous situation is
          developing and directs all participating aircrew to cease maneuvering, establish safe
          flight parameters, deconflict flight paths, and obtain situational awareness on all flight
          members.
6                                              EDWARDSAFBI99-105 23 JANUARY 2014


    3.1.4. There is a single, highly experienced individual designated as the test director who
    acts as the supervisor of the control room and has emergency-direct communication with
    mission-test pilot.
    3.1.5. There is a single, experienced individual designated as the test conductor who is
    the primary communicator with the test aircrew. The test conductor will clear the test
    pilot to proceed from one test point to the next. The test director and test conductor may
    be the same person for simple test missions.
    3.1.6. Continuity of control room personnel is maintained from mission to mission to the
    greatest extent reasonably possible. All essential control room personnel will be in direct
    communication with each other and with the test conductor. All essential control room
    personnel will monitor aircrew-to-control room communications. In-flight video of the
    aircraft may be required to enhance the situational awareness of control room personnel.
    Any member of the aircrew or control room may recommend termination of a test point
    to the test conductor. Teamwork will be stressed. A test mission “dress rehearsal” should
    be conducted in an actual control room with test personnel before the start of test
    programs. During this rehearsal, as much of the aircraft-to-control room real-time system
    should be exercised as possible. Simulators may be utilized to enhance the technical and
    safety understanding of critical parameters for planned test conditions. Operator-in-the-
    loop simulations may be utilized to provide additional understanding of test system
    response.
    3.1.7. All safety-of-flight and safety-of-test information will be continuously monitored
    and a procedure will be in place to immediately notify the test aircrew if safety limits are
    approached or exceeded or if critical data displays malfunction for any reason. Where
    available, the test conductor will also monitor a set of designated parameters. Graphic
    displays may be required to give a perceptible warning when a parameter is out of limits.
    Mission and test maneuver termination criteria will be established by test personnel and
    documented in the test plan and safety plan. Specific mission termination criteria will be
    discussed in the mission pre-briefing. The flight and/or test will be terminated if
    monitoring capability is lost for any safety of flight and/or test parameter identified in the
    safety plan, if data analysis indicates an aircraft and/or test limit may be exceeded on the
    next test point or maneuver, an aircraft limit is exceeded, or if any unexpected event
    occurs during the test that in the opinion of the pilot or test director compromises safety.
    For remotely piloted aircraft (RPA) tests, the chase aircrew or RPA pilot may take
    control of the vehicle for safety reasons without concurrence from the control room.
    3.1.8. All control room personnel will observe a period of 12 hours crew rest prior to
    reporting for duty and participating in a test mission. In addition, the duty day for control
    room personnel will not be longer than 12 hours from the time the individual reports for
    duty until engine shut down or test completion. For long-duration test missions, test
    organizations should consider rotating control room personnel, but the CTF director or
    squadron commander may extend the crew duty day up to 14 hours for control room
    personnel when only one individual is monitoring a set of parameters. Crew duty day
    may be increased to 18 hours if two or more individuals are monitoring a set of
    parameters. All personnel in the control room shall be alcohol-free for 12 hours prior to
    entering the control room for a test mission. No personal cell phones shall be on during
    control room duty.
EDWARDSAFBI99-105 23 JANUARY 2014                                                                 7


  3.2. Key mission control personnel duties:
     3.2.1. The following key mission duties are standard for a large test organization
     conducting tests using a ground control room. Depending on the complexity of the test
     mission, an individual may fulfill more than one key mission duty. For example, the
     operations engineer may also perform as the test conductor and the duty pilot may also
     perform as the test director. Contractual requirements or test activities involving multiple
     government agencies may also necessitate some modification of the responsibilities
     listed. Test organizations may modify the allocation of the key duties below if necessary,
     but should ensure that all essential duties are assigned to an individual and that any
     changes are captured in a unit OI.
     3.2.2. The test director is responsible for the technical quality, security, safety, and
     support aspects of the mission, as identified in the test plan. The test director:
         3.2.2.1. Verifies that the test cards and/or procedures have been properly reviewed
         and approved.
         3.2.2.2. Ensures key personnel attend both pre- and post-test briefings. The test
         director will ensure that test cards and safety packages are fully briefed and will
         ensure that test results are properly documented.
         3.2.2.3. Supervises the control room and validates qualifications of all test personnel
         in the control room.
         3.2.2.4. Possesses the authority to terminate the test point or mission if the technical
         validity of the test is in question or safety is jeopardized.
         3.2.2.5. Makes the final decision on the real-time selection of options during the test
         mission.
         3.2.2.6. Has emergency direct communication with mission test pilot.
     3.2.3. The test pilot is responsible for the safe operation of the test aircraft and successful
     completion of the test mission. If the test pilot is not the pilot in command, the pilot in
     command will be the final authority on aircraft safety and the test pilot will be
     responsible for the execution of the test points. The test pilot:
         3.2.3.1. Assists the discipline engineer in preparation and review of the test plan.
         3.2.3.2. Prepares or assists the operations engineer in the preparation of the safety
         review package and participates in the Safety Review Board.
         3.2.3.3. Assists operations engineer in the preparation of test cards and reviews test
         points and test mission profile for safety and operational practicality.
         3.2.3.4. Possesses the authority to terminate the test point or mission for any safety of
         flight reason.
         3.2.3.5. Performs test maneuvers as briefed, or in the case of multi-crew aircraft,
         oversees test maneuvers, as appropriate.
         3.2.3.6. Leads the mission briefing and debriefing.
         3.2.3.7. Completes post-mission reports, as required.
8                                              EDWARDSAFBI99-105 23 JANUARY 2014


    3.2.4. The chase pilot is responsible for clearing airspace, being in position to take
    photographs, checking over the test aircraft between test points, and assisting the test
    aircraft in an emergency. The chase pilot:
       3.2.4.1. Attends mission briefings.
       3.2.4.2. Reviews all mission maneuvers with test pilot and ensures that the following
       items are briefed: chase position and expected results, minimum anticipated altitudes
       and terrain clearance, aircraft limits for both test and chase aircraft, altitude
       deconfliction and plan for lost sight, and rendezvous/rejoin plan.
       3.2.4.3. Ensures chase crewmembers understand their duties for the mission and
       reviews aircrew duties in the event of an emergency in the test or chase aircraft.
    3.2.5. The test conductor is responsible for real-time coordination of ground activities
    with the aircrew; paces the progression through the test cards, as agreed to in the mission
    pre- briefing; defers to the test director for decisions, as appropriate; and is the primary
    communicator to the aircraft. The test conductor may be airborne in the test or support
    aircraft. The test conductor:
       3.2.5.1. Makes test-point terminate and go or no-go calls based on real-time
       engineering analyses of control room data. Terminates test points if the technical
       validity of the test is in question or safety is jeopardized.
       3.2.5.2. Briefs test cards during mission briefing. Briefs test hazard analyses and
       general minimizing considerations (AFFTC Document 5028) for all applicable test
       points during mission briefing. Briefing tasks may be delegated.
       3.2.5.3. Coordinates control room and/or aircraft setup, when required.
    3.2.6. Essential personnel may be discipline engineers or any personnel that occupy a
    position in the control room and are required by an operating instruction, test plan, or
    safety plan. The essential personnel engaged in the test are responsible for the technical
    adequacy of their discipline’s portion of the test, and:
       3.2.6.1. Are responsible for the preparation of the test plan according to AFFTCI
       99101.
       3.2.6.2. Assist the operations engineer in the preparation of the safety review
       package and participates in the Safety Review Board.
       3.2.6.3. Work with the operations engineer to prepare test procedures or test cards.
       3.2.6.4. Are qualified to determine what control room parameters are required and
       monitor those data or parameters in real time.
       3.2.6.5. Monitor critical data from a safety and technical standpoint.
       3.2.6.6. Determine if test point was adequate and gives test conductor
       recommendation to repeat point or proceed.
       3.2.6.7. Inform test conductor if parameters are off-scale or inoperative.
       3.2.6.8. Inform test conductor when a critical parameter limit is being approached or
       has been exceeded by the test aircraft.
EDWARDSAFBI99-105 23 JANUARY 2014                                                              9


        3.2.6.9. Participate in control room configuration determination.
        3.2.6.10. Analyze test data and provides assessments as to test system compliance
        with specifications and mission suitability.
     3.2.7. The operations engineer is responsible for test preparation and initial post-test
     reporting. The operations engineer:
        3.2.7.1. Assists the discipline engineer in preparation and review of the test plan.
        3.2.7.2. Is responsible for the preparation of the safety review package and
        coordinates the Safety Review Board according to AFFTCI 91-105.
        3.2.7.3. Constructs test cards and/or test procedures in coordination with discipline
        engineers, test pilots, and test conductor. Reviews test cards for compliance with
        safety review package. Provides test cards to the appropriate approval authority for
        signature. Provides approved test cards, applicable test hazard analyses, and general
        minimizing considerations, to test pilots, test conductor, and others, as required, prior
        to test mission pre-briefing.
        3.2.7.4. Provides coordination between operations, engineering, and maintenance to
        schedule the test article, support aircraft, and test ranges. Ensures proper test article
        configuration and data acquisition system configuration.
        3.2.7.5. Monitors and provides guidance on aircraft systems operation and data
        acquisition system operations during test mission.
        3.2.7.6. Gathers post-mission reports and forwards test data to the appropriate data
        analysis activity. Ensures that lessons learned, deficiencies, or unusual flight events
        are documented and resolved, as required.
     3.2.8. The duty pilot and/or operations duty officer is responsible for advising the test
     pilot from the control room or operations desk on workaround and emergency
     procedures.
     3.2.9. The instrumentation engineer and/or technician, if required, is/are responsible for
     the pre-flight, post-flight, and real-time operation of the data acquisition system.
     3.2.10. The Range Control Officer (RCO), if required, is responsible to the test director
     for real-time execution and coordination of all inter- and intra-range support. The RCO
     prepares and coordinates documentation and procedures with range users and other
     support ranges, where necessary, to satisfy test mission requirements.
     3.2.11. The Range Data Production Analyst (DPA), if required, is responsible for
     development of real-time and post-flight data products, pre-mission preparation of
     mission control rooms and computer systems, and operation of the mission control rooms
     and associated data processing systems during test mission support (real-time and post-
     flight). The DPA is the liaison between users of the data support systems, airborne
     instrumentation project engineers, and the data processing staff. The DPA has overall
     responsibility for ensuring compatibility between the airborne instrumentation and
     ground data processing systems and interfaces.
     3.2.12. The Range Safety Officer (RSO), if required, is directly responsible to the 412th
     TW Commander and Chief of Safety for protection of the general public. The RSO may
10                                               EDWARDSAFBI99-105 23 JANUARY 2014


     cancel or terminate test missions that violate range safety criteria or pose a potential
     threat to personnel, facilities, or property. In the event of imminent danger or errant flight
     of these systems, the RSO may directly invoke recovery or destruct actions on these
     vehicles using the ranges flight termination systems or by direction to project personnel.




                                            MICHAEL T. BREWER, Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Commander
EDWARDSAFBI99-105 23 JANUARY 2014                                       11


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-202 Volume 1/AFMC Supplement 1, Aircrew Training, 25 July 2011
AFI 11-2FTV3, EAFB Sup 1, Flying Operations,22 August 2012
AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation, 16 October 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,1 March 2008
AFFTCI 99-101, 412 TW Test Plans, 07 August 2013
AFFTCI 91-105, AFFTC Test Safety Review Process, 25 July 2012
EAFBI 13-100, Flying and Airfield Operations, 01 August 2013
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABW—Air Base Wing
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
COOL—Center Ops On-Line
CTF—Combined Test Force
DPR—Data Production Analyst
FCIF—Flight Crew Information File
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RCO—Range Control Officer
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RPA—Remotely Piloted Aircraft
RSO—Range Safety Officer
TW—Test Wing
USAF TPS—United States Air Force Test Pilot School
