BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE
EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE                                               INSTRUCTION 16-100

                                                                            3 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                             Operations Support

                                                                     THE TEST SUPPORT
                                                             REQUEST STAFFING PROCESS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications referenced in this instruction are available from the following
               publishing website: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 412 TMGB                                                        Certified by: 412 TW/TMG
                                                                                   (Brian Hobbs)
                                                                                         Pages: 6


This publication implements AFFTCI 16-502, The Job Order Number Assignment Process. The
AFTC Commander delegates to the 412th Test Wing (412 TW) the authority to obligate 412 TW
resources for test support. It provides guidance and procedures on staffing and promptly
responding to test support requests received by the 412 TW. It applies to all 412 TW
organizations and includes US Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard, or the Civil Air Patrol;
managing, supporting or contributing to the processes as defined in this publication. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).
Requests for waivers to any part of this publication must be submitted to the 412th TW Test
Management Division (TMG) Director. Refer recommended changes and questions concerning
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. The OPR will be responsible for staffing the AF
Form 847 and initiating the formal change process through the organization to the base
publications/forms manager.

1. References. Details and information for executing the processes in this instruction are
contained in the 412th Test Wing, Test Management Division, Resource Planning and Analysis
Branch, Program Analyst Procedures and the 412th Test Wing, Test Management Division,
Project Management Branch, The Project Management Process, hosted on the Air Force Portal.
 2                                                EDWARDSAFBI16-100 3 DECEMBER 2013


2. Roles and Responsibilities.
     2.1. All 412 TW personnel are responsible for supporting the processes as defined in this and
     subsequent related publications.
     2.2. The 412th Test Wing, Test Management Division, Material Leader for the Project
     Management Branch assumes responsibility for rendering decisions on test execution
     organization (TEO) and PM assignments.
     2.3. The 412th Test Wing, Test Management Division, Material Leader for the Resource
     Planning and Analysis Branch, assumes responsibility for the Test Support Request Staffing
     process, and the Programs Section is responsible for PA assignments.
     2.4. The 412th Test Wing, Test Management Division, Material Leader for the Special
     Projects Branch assumes responsibilities for TEO, PM and the Test Support Request Staffing
     process for classified projects.
     2.5. The combined test force (CTF) directors, integrated test force (ITF) directors and
     directors of projects (DP) and/or their deputies, retain, and will not delegate the authority to
     make decisions regarding the balancing of cost, schedule and content across the multiple
     projects for which their organization has been identified as the 412 TW TEO.
     2.6. The 412th Test Wing, Operations Group is the OPR for the Test Acceleration/Surge
     (TA/S) process. When the 412 TW is presented with wartime scenarios that call for the
     TA/S process, the response to a Wartime Materiel Support request (if approved) is an
     acceleration of the test process to allow for a much more rapid execution of a test project
     than would otherwise be possible. If the 412 TW Commander does not designate or approve
     the TA/S, the program will be conducted through the normal 412 TW processes.
3. Test Support Request Staffing Process. This instruction encompasses the formulation of
the project support decision process, the development, staffing, dissemination and follow-up of
Rough Order of Magnitude (ROM) cost estimates and Statements of Capability (SOC) in
response to customer test support requests and the assignment of TEOs and PMs. The most
commonly used test support request is the program introduction (PI) document. However, other
electronic or written inquiry is also acceptable.
     3.1. Templates exist in the PA and PM handbooks maintained by 412th Test Wing, Test
     Management Division, for creating the PI, Test Concept (TC), ROM and SOC.
     3.2. A TEO will be assigned to assume responsibility for test planning and execution of the
     project initiated by the customer’s test support request. In addition, the applicable DP will
     assign the PM that best meets the project requirements.
     3.3. The project support decision process begins upon receipt of new PIs, which are
     reviewed either by 412 Test Wing, Test Management Division, Resource Planning and
     Analysis Branch/Programs Section, the CTFs/ITFs or test support organizations. The request
     is forwarded to the 412th Test Wing, Test Management Division Resource Planning and
     Analysis Branch/Programs Section for processing. If the test support request is accepted, the
     remainder of the SOC Process is followed. If the test support request is disapproved by the
     412 TW Commander, a non-support letter is sent to the customer.
     3.4. ROM test support requests are submitted directly from external customers to the
     applicable CTF, ITF, and/or organizations. A ROM is not a commitment of 412 TW
EDWARDSAFBI16-100 3 DECEMBER 2013                                                              3


  resources or support. Completed ROM packages are submitted to the 412 TW ROM Board
  for 24-hour review and to the applicable CTF, ITF, or DP for approval. Only ROMs
  approved through this process will be sent to the customer.
  3.5. A SOC is the 412 TW’s formal commitment to support the customer. It identifies the
  resources to be provided, the estimated costs for those resources, major deliverables, any
  possible constraints, and a test and support schedule.
     3.5.1. Once the decision is made to support the project, the SOC process begins. It may
     also begin upon the decision to revise the SOC for existing customers.
     3.5.2. A Job Order Number (JON) will be established for new projects to ensure proper
     cost tracking associated with supporting the customer’s test support request.
  3.5.3. A core team meeting is required for all projects, regardless of complexity. This will
  ensure the customer’s objectives and deliverables are clearly understood by the core team
  and sufficient detail is provided by the customer.
     3.5.4. A TC document, if required, will be developed by the PM identifying the support
     requirements for successfully meeting the objectives as defined in the test support request
     and discussed at the core team meeting.
  3.5.5. A TC meeting, if required, will be convened with the appropriate support
  organizations to discuss and/or clarify the requirements identified in the test support request
  and TC documents.
     3.5.6. Each applicable support organization will develop a capability and resource
     estimate (C&RE) documenting the resources, constraints, risks, and comments associated
     with their support, along with the estimated hours or units for that support. The support
     organization will verify adequate resources are available within the requested timeframe.
     3.5.7. Cost estimate information received with the C&REs will be consolidated and input
     into JOCAS. A test support plan (TSP) will be generated providing the total project
     estimated cost.
     3.5.8. A SOC will be drafted incorporating validated cost, schedule, support, and content
     information. Coordination of the SOC will be on the 412th Test Wing, Resource
     Planning and Analysis Branch, Statement of Capability Coordination Sheet.
     3.5.9. Once coordinated and signed by designated officials, the SOC will be sent to the
     customer requesting concurrence. The receipt of the customer-signed SOC signifies
     concurrence. Once concurrence and funding are received the program is placed in Active
     phase allowing support and execution to begin. SOC Non-concurrence requires a written
     statement from the customer.




                                           MICHAEL T. BREWER, Brig Gen, USAF
                                           Commander
 4                                          EDWARDSAFBI16-100 3 DECEMBER 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFFTCI 16-502, Job Order Number (JON) Assignment Process, 24 Jun 2010
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 07 Feb 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Record, 01 Mar 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
412 TW—412th Test Wing
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
C&RE—Capability and Resource Estimate
CTF—Combined Test Force
DoD—Department of Defense
DP—Director of Projects
EAFBI—Edwards Air Force Base Instruction
IMT—Information Management Tool
ITF—Integrated Test Force
JOCAS—Job Order Cost Accounting System
JON—Job Order Number
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PA—Program Analyst
PI—Program Introduction
PM—Project Manager
ROM—Rough Order of Magnitude
SOC—Statement of Capability
TC—Test Concept
TEO—Test Execution Organization
TA/S—Test Acceleration/Surge
TSP—Test Support Plan
EDWARDSAFBI16-100 3 DECEMBER 2013                                                               5


USAF—United States Air Force

Terms
Adopted Form. A form used (required) in a publication other than the prescribing
publication. (See Air Force Instruction AFI 33—360, Publications and Forms Management).
Capability and Resource Estimate (C&RE)—.                 A C&RE refers to the functional
organization’s formal cost estimate. It includes a transmittal letter describing the resources
provided as well as constraints, risks, comments, or assumptions associated with the test support.
In addition, it includes cost estimate information, which identifies resource units/hours by
product and service number and responsibility center/cost center (RC/CC).
Combined Test Force (CTF) (or Integrated Test Force [ITF])—. A test force made up of
representatives from the 412 TW, participating test organizations, AF Operational Test and
Evaluation Center, using and support commands, other military services (ITF only), foreign
partners (ITF only) and contractors. CTFs and ITFs are responsible for all aspects of planning,
coordinating, managing, flight operations, safety, testing and reporting of T&E, and support of
initial operational T&E and follow-on T&E test projects.
Core Team Meeting—. The core team meeting clarifies support requirements in the PI
document, addresses any issues and concerns, discusses TC document development and
establishes a tentative SOC schedule.
e—Publishing -. A central Web site for accessing, viewing, downloading and printing
electronic products; physical products may be ordered from the e-Publishing Web site.
Information on product development and links to other agency publications are also provided on
the e-Publishing website.
External Customer—. An external customer refers to a customer outside of the 412 TW
functional organization who requests support from the 412 TW. Examples of external customers
are the Department of Defense (DoD) (a systems group or system program office), other
governmental agencies (state and local), commercial and foreign military sales.
Form—. A tool used for the collection, recording, and/or extraction of information whereby a
predetermined set of data fields have been established and defined to meet a definitive purpose
or object, as defined in an official AF publication. (See AFI 33-360).
Job Order Number (JON)—. The JON refers to an alpha and/or numeric designation assigned
to a project to identify a specific entity (resource) or work effort. (See AFFTCI 16-502).
Prescribed Form. A form prescribed by a directive publication. (See AFI 33—360,
Publications and Forms Management).
Program Introduction (PI)—. The PI is a test support request and serves as the initial planning
document. As a minimum, it identifies the scope and duration of project activity and the test
objectives.
Resources—. Funding, manpower, equipment, facilities, materials and information and/or
technology used to accomplish a project.
Rough Order of Magnitude (ROM)—. A ROM is a preliminary planning test support cost
estimate developed in accordance with 412 TW reimbursable policies and reimbursement rates.
 6                                            EDWARDSAFBI16-100 3 DECEMBER 2013


The ROM is not a commitment of 412 TW resources and must be coordinated through the
412 TW ROM Board and approved by the applicable CTF, ITF, or DP prior to being sent to the
customer.
Statement of Capability (SOC)—. Following approval by the 412th Test Management
Division, the signed SOC document is the 412 TW’s formal commitment of resources in
response to a test support request.
Test Concept (TC) Document—. The TC identifies project scope, schedule, objectives,
deliverables, success criteria, receivables, support requirements, the PM’s best estimates by
resource, assumptions, constraints, options, and test risk and mitigation information.
Test Execution Organization (TEO)—. The TEO provides test planning and execution of a
test support request.
Test Support Plan (TSP)—. The TSP provides a detailed estimate by month of resources
required to support a test project and their estimated costs.
Test Support Request—. The test support request refers to the customer’s written request for
test support and includes the test requirements, schedule, and customer’s point of contact.
