                            DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                              HEADQUATERS 412TH TEST WING (AFMC)
                              EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE CALIFORNIA



                                                                  EDWARDSAFBGM2014-11-01

                                                                                 12 February 2014

MEMORANDUM FOR ALL 412TH TEST WING PERSONNEL

FROM: 412 TW/CC
      195 E Popson Ave
      Edwards AFB, CA


SUBJECT: Edwards AFB Guidance Memorandum, Aviation Management

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

1. By Order of the Edwards Air Force Base Commander, this Guidance Memorandum
immediately implements AFI 11-401, Aviation Management. Compliance with this
Memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its directions are inconsistent with other Edwards Air
Force Base publications; the information herein prevails, IAW AFI 33-360, Publications and
Forms Management.

2. According to AFI 11-401, the USAF conducts orientation flights to reward and motivate
individuals, ensure a better understanding of a particular weapon system and its role, or when the
flight is determined to be in the best interests of the USAF. Orientation flights for 412 TW
personnel will be categorized as either an incentive flight or familiarization flight.

3. All types of orientation flights will be scheduled and conducted in a manner that poses no
impact to the operations of the flying units in the 412 TW. Personnel and resources in the 412
TW will not be reallocated for orientation flight support when the reallocation will impact the
flying unit’s mission and operations.

4. Incentive flights provide a visible reward to USAF active duty and Air Reserve Component
military personnel for outstanding service and motivate other military personnel to high
performance levels. The incentive flight program is an important element to the morale and
welfare of 412 TW assigned personnel.

5. Incentive flights are either dedicated or non-interference. Dedicated incentive flights are
sorties scheduled for that specific purpose. Non-interference incentive flights are flights provided
by 412 TW flying units on a space available basis, incur no additional cost to the supporting unit,
have no mission impact, and do not interfere with aircrew training. The criteria for an incentive
flight is as follows:

   a. Dedicated incentive flights are sorties reserved only for annual award winners at the Wing
level or higher. The TW/CC has the authority to expand the scope of dedicated incentive flights.
   b. Personnel recommended must be consistently above average performers in their unit. The
recommendation must be based on the impact the individual has made while serving in the 412
TW. Annual award winners at levels lower than the wing level and quarterly award winners are
some examples of candidates who may be selected.

  c. Civilians are not eligible for incentive flights (per AFI 11-401)

6. Familiarization flights familiarize individuals who normally have aviation-related
responsibilities with USAF aircraft and missions. These flights benefit the USAF by giving the
individual the opportunity to understand the flying environment and see how it relates to their
duties. A better understanding of flying operations increases the individual’s ability to perform
their aviation-related duties.

7. The 412 TW familiarization flight program shall be flown on a non-interference basis and at
no additional cost to the flying unit. The 412 TW Ops Immersion Program, as discussed below,
will fall under the familiarization flight program. Aircraft requests should take into consideration
availability of open cockpits, mission constraints, and familiarization flight objectives. Flights
will take place in the most appropriate aircraft that relates to the individual’s duties. The
individual is not restricted to flying in only their unit’s aircraft.

  a. The criteria for a familiarization flight is as follows:

        (1) Familiarization flights are intended for discipline engineers and those with aviation
            related duties in the 412 TW.

        (2) An individual can receive no more than one familiarization flight for each unit they
            work at while serving in the 412 TW.

        (3) The justification must clearly and specifically explain how the familiarization flight
            will benefit the 412 TW or USAF. Civilians may include awards received while
            serving in the 412 TW in the justification section.

        (4) The type of aircraft requested must relate to the individual’s job but is not restricted
            to aircraft only operated by the individual’s unit.

        (5) Active Duty, Reserve, and DoD Civilians are eligible for familiarization flights with
            412 TW/CC approval. DoD contractors are eligible for familiarization flights with
            AFMC/CC approval and within the scope of their contract.

  b. The purpose of the 412 TW Operations and Maintenance Immersion Program is to increase
  cooperation, understanding, and improve the working relationship between 412 TW
  operations and maintenance personnel. Paired aircrew and maintenance personnel have the
  opportunity to learn from each other during dedicated immersion days. Aircrew will spend a
  day on the flight line learning maintenance processes. Maintainers will spend a day with their
  operations counterparts, preparing and training for a mission and then flying a sortie in the
  local area.
8. Personnel of the 412 TW can be recommended for orientation flights using AFTC Flight
Request / Approval Form 5416. A quarterly panel will review recommendations for
familiarization and incentive flights. The panel will be chaired by the 412 TW/CV. The panel
chair will select the members of the panel with at least one member from each of the 412 EWG,
412 MXG, 412 OG, and 412 TENG. The panel will decide who gets priority for a familiarization
or incentive flight based on the merit of the justification. Once a candidate’s priority is
established, the OG will attempt to coordinate familiarization and incentive flights for those with
the highest priority. The ability to conduct flights on a non-interference basis will determine how
many candidates fly.

9. The 412 OG/CC will appoint an Orientation Flight Program Manager. (OFPM) The OFPM
will schedule and coordinate flights for those who receive dedicated incentive flights and those
selected by the panel for a non-interference incentive or familiarization flight. The OFPM will
be the main POC for the flyers and will direct them through the process of obtaining their
physical, getting the proper training and equipment, and ensuring they know when and where
their flight will take place. Once an incentive or familiarization flight is authorized for an
individual, the flyer will need to comply with getting their physical, being fitted for and receiving
applicable equipment, completing applicable training, and showing up on time for their pre-flight
briefing and flight. No effort will be made to reschedule someone more than twice.

10. This Memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the date of this
memorandum, or upon publication of an Interim Change or rewrite of AFI 11-401, Aviation
Management, whichever is earlier.




                                                MICHAEL T. BREWER
                                                Brigadier General, USAF
                                                Commander
