BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE
EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE                                            INSTRUCTION 16-502

                                                                         3 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                          Operations Support

                                                                     JOB ORDER NUMBER
                                                                   ASSIGNMENT PROCESS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading on the e-
               Publications website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 412 TMGB                                                          Certified by: 412 TMG
                                                                                (Brian Hobbs)
                                                                                      Pages: 6
Supersedes:   AFFTCI 16-502, 24 Jun 10


This publication implements Air Force Instruction AFI 65-601 Vol. 1, Budget Guidance and
Procedures. This publication provides guidance and procedures on staffing Edwards Air Force
Base (EAFB) Job Order Number (JON) requests and assigning JONs for the purpose of
workload identification and control. It carries out DoD 7000.14-R, (Financial Management
Regulation) Vol. 4, Chapter 20. It applies to individuals at all levels who manage, support or
contribute to the EAFB JON Assignment Process, including US Air Force Reserve, Air National
Guard or the Civil Air Patrol. Refer recommended changes and questions concerning this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Information
Management Tool (IMT) 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT
847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document contains administrative changes and re-names the instruction from an Air Force
Flight Test Center operating instruction to an EAFB instruction due to the center restructure.
Updates include references and organizational names versus office symbols.
1. References. Detailed information for executing the processes are maintained in the 412th
Test Wing Test Management Division (412 TMG). For further information on program analyst
 2                                               EDWARDSAFBI16-502 3 DECEMBER 2013


procedures, contact the 412 TMG Resource Planning and Analysis Branch, and for the project
management process, contact the 412 TMG Project Management Branch. The locations of these
publications are on the 412 TMG web page publications tab of the Air Force Portal.
     1.1. Overview. EAFB JONs are established to provide detailed cost accounting and financial
     data in accordance with DoD 7000.14-R, (Financial Management Regulation) Vol. 4,
     Chapter 20. The term “customers” as used throughout this document, refers to customers
     internal and external to EAFB.
     1.2. Roles and Responsibilities.
        1.2.1. All EAFB personnel are responsible for supporting the processes as defined in this
        and subsequent related publications.
        1.2.2. The 412 TMG Resource Planning and Analysis Branch JON Desk has overall
        responsibility for the administration and management of JON assignments. The JON
        Desk administrator is responsible for establishing, coordinating, processing and
        maintaining the JON Management system.
        1.2.3. Project managers (PM) and business leaders (BL) are the primaries responsible for
        preparing JON requests and submitting them to the JON Desk for processing, as
        appropriate, and assisting other requesters in preparing and submitting JON requests, as
        required.
        1.2.4. Program analysts (PA) are responsible for assisting other requesters in preparing
        and submitting JON requests when the applicable PMs and BLs are unavailable.
            1.2.4.1. The PA updates the JON Management system concurrence block upon
            receipt of the customer’s concurrence with the Statement of Capability (SOC) or
            Interservice Support Agreement (ISA).
        1.2.5. The 412th Mission Support Group Installation Deployment Office serves as the
        manager for the ISA program and is responsible for preparing and submitting all ISA
        JON requests in accordance with AFI 25-201, Support Agreement Procedures.
        1.2.6. The coordination and approval for all ISA (“01”), Non-Appropriated (“02”), Inter-
        Organizational (“MA”, “MC”, “MT”), and Non-Test and Evaluation (“N”) JONs lies
        with the applicable 412 TW or AFTC Financial Office to ensure validity/purpose, verify
        reimbursement code assignment, and for management of ISA and Inter-Organizational
        JONs.
        1.2.7. The applicable 412th Test Wing Financial office budget analysts (BA) are
        responsible for activating newly established reimbursable JONs in the Job Order Cost
        Accounting System (JOCAS), loading funding when received, updating reimbursement
        codes and work phases in the JON Management system, as required.
        1.2.8. The applicable financial office is responsible for activating newly established non-
        reimbursable JONs in JOCAS, updating the JOCAS II “JON Master” table, and
        performing daily interfaces between JOCAS II and the JON Management system.
2. JON Assignment Process. The JON assignment process is the method for establishing a
tracking mechanism for funding received and expended by individual project or effort. A JON is
EDWARDSAFBI16-502 3 DECEMBER 2013                                                                3


an eight-digit EAFB identifier assigned to each program against which resources may or may not
be expended.
   2.1. The 412 TW JON assignment process begins upon receipt of JON request document by
   the 412 TW JON Desk ( ).
   2.2. The 412 TW JON Desk obtains the required approvals, creates the JON in the JON
   Management System, notifies the required organizations that the JON has been created, and
   files the JON request/JON Management documentation in ERM.
       2.2.1. For specifics on JON creation reference the 412 Test Management Division
       program analyst procedures located on the TMG Air Force Portal web page.
   2.3. JONs contain eight characters.
       2.3.1. The first character of the JON will capture “Customer Type.”
       2.3.2. The second and third characters will capture “Platform”.
       2.3.3. The fourth, fifth and sixth characters will be unique to differentiate the JONs.
       2.3.4. The last two characters (seventh and eighth) will be “00” except as described as
       follows:
          2.3.4.1. The seventh and eighth character will be used to identify “Child” JONs from
          the “Parent” JONs. All child JONs will have the same first six characters as a parent
          JON.
   2.4. The JON structure key is the decoder for all reimbursable JONs. The key is a living
   document and will be updated as new platforms are identified and tested. The JON Desk
   administrator is the focal point for all additions to the key. When additions are incorporated,
   a copy of the updated key will be forwarded to 412 TW Financial Programs Branch or
   designee.
   2.5. The first word of the JON title will be the platform or system under test when no
   platform is available.




                                             MICHAEL T. BREWER, Brig Gen, USAF
                                             Commander
 4                                          EDWARDSAFBI16-502 3 DECEMBER 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 25-201, Support Agreement Procedures, 5 May 2005
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 7 Feb 2013
AFI 65-601 Vol. 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 16 Aug 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
DoD 7000.14R (Financial Management Regulation) Vol. 4, Chapter 20, May 2010
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publications, 22 Sep 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
412 TW—412th Test Wing
AF—Air Force
AFTC—Air Force Test Center
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFMCI—Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
BA—Budget Analyst
BL—Business Leader
BOS—Base Operating Support
DT&E—Developmental Test and Evaluation
EAFB—Edwards Air Force Base
IMT—Information Management Tool
ISA—Interservice Support Agreement
JOCAS II—Job Order Cost Accounting System, Version II
JON—Job Order Number
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
P&S—Product and Service
PA—Program Analyst
PI—Program Introduction
PM—Project Manager
EDWARDSAFBI16-502 3 DECEMBER 2013                                                                5


RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SOC—Statement of Capability
TOC—Theory of Constraints
TOC PM—Theory of Constraints Project Management

Terms
Adopted Form— A form used (required) in a publication other than the prescribing
publication. (See Air Force Instruction 33-360, Publications and Forms Management).
Base Operating Support (BOS) Request— Requests for support from Command and Staff
organizations and 412th Mission Support Group activities.
Interservice Support Agreement (ISA)— A completed DD Form 1144, Support Agreement,
which documents the base support a supplier, provides a receiver and the reimbursement the
receiver will pay for that support.
Job Order Cost Accounting System— Version II (JOCAS II). The JOCAS II is a cost
accounting system which supports project estimation, project management, resource capacity
planning, resource commitment, and performance analysis and maintenance of product and
service (P&S) rates.
Job Order Number (JON)— The JON refers to an alpha and/or numeric designation assigned
to a project to identify a specific entity (resource) or work effort.
JON Management— A centralized web-accessible database application consisting of three-tier
architecture for generating unique job order numbers. The application allows the JON Desk to
maintain JON information to manage EAFB projects and is used to supplement JOCAS JON
data with information such as project point of contact information, project customer information
and project test execution organization information. It is also used to collect project actual cost
expenditures and build project charges to bill customers.
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)— The originating office for a publication; the author
of the publication is an individual within the OPR. OPRs are solely responsible for the accuracy,
currency and integrity of their publications and forms. (See AFI 33-360.)
Program Introduction (PI)— The PI is the customer’s test support request and serves as the
initial planning document. It identifies the scope and duration of program activity and the test
objectives.
Project Support Decision— refers to the choice made by senior Test Wing management to
support or not to support a customer test support request. When a customer test support request
falls outside of the EAFB core mission, capability and/or capacity, a formal project support
decision is required.
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)— The official schedule that authorizes/governs the
disposition of AF records, which contains National Archives and Records Administration
approval authority.
Statement of Capability (SOC)— Following approval by the 412th Test Wing or 412 Test
Management Division designee, the signed SOC document is the EAFB’s formal commitment to
 6                                              EDWARDSAFBI16-502 3 DECEMBER 2013


support the customer. The SOC includes the following information: introduction, key points of
contact, background information, cost estimate, constraints (if applicable), risks, mitigation
plans, project scope, test and/or support schedule (the Theory of Constraints [TOC] schedule will
be used for projects using TOC project management [TOC PM]), objectives, deliverables,
success criteria, project support, comments, assumptions and standard operating procedures.
SOC Concurrence— The SOC concurrence is established upon the 412th Test Management
Division Resource Planning and Analysis Branch’s receipt of the customer’s signed SOC
signatory page.
Theory of Constraints Project Management (TOC PM)— TOC PM is the project planning,
scheduling and management tool used by the Test Wing.
