BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE
EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE                                                INSTRUCTION 32-201

                                                                                    29 MAY 2014

                                                                                Civil Engineering

                                                         EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL
                                                           SUPPORT TO 412TH TEST WING
                                                                             PROJECTS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 412 CE/CEXDP                                                        Certified by: 412 CE/CL
                                                                             (Mr. James Judkins)
                                                                                         Pages: 4


This instruction implements AFPD 32-30, Explosive Ordnance Disposal. It establishes
procedures for requesting Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) support for Edwards Air Force
Base (EAFB) projects and provides EOD support responsibilities. This instruction applies to all
EAFB activities and tenant units requiring EOD support. This publication cannot be
supplemented at any level. This instruction does not apply to the Civ Air Patrol and/or the
National Guard. No waivers may be granted for any part of this publication. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

1. General. To be prepared for any ordnance/aircraft system accident or incident and to aid in
accomplishing developmental testing of ordnance/aircraft systems, EOD render safe, disposal,
and/or recovery procedures along with special tools and support equipment must be developed as
early as possible in the life of any given system. Descriptive information, as listed in Attachment
1 to DD Form 1664, Data Item Description, must be furnished to the EOD Branch (412
CE/CEXDP) prior to receipt of new or updated ordnance/aircraft systems to be tested on the
EAFB complex. In addition, the EOD Branch must have accurate technical data no later than 30
days prior to the arrival of test items to permit familiarization with ordnance/aircraft system and
development of local recovery and/or render safe and disposal procedures (Reference DoD
 2                                                      EDWARDSAFBI32-201 29 MAY 2014


Directive 5160.62, para 4.a.(5) dtd 3 Jun 2011 and Technical Order 00-5-3, para 16.5.5 dated 31
Dec 2009).
     1.1. EOD provides support for all test projects involving aircraft or spacecraft flight
     operations, ordnance/missile flight and/or drop tests, and any other activity involving
     hazardous explosive or chemical munitions or devices.
     1.2. EOD support categories:
        1.2.1. Emergency Response: Response to munitions handling accidents, aircraft
        incidents/accidents, hung ordnance, ground mishaps, etc.
        1.2.2. Range Support: Recovery, render safe, and/or disposal of munitions or test items
        launched, dropped, or jettisoned on the EAFB range complex or in the local area of
        responsibility.
        1.2.3. Active Project Support: Active and continued support of test missions including
        technical support, training support, liaison with additional supporting EOD units, and
        technical data development and validation.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. The 412th Test Management Group Program Manager will ensure EOD support is
     requested within the program introduction document (PID). The request should state
     applicable tasking requirements listed in para 2.4 below. The statement "provide EOD
     support as required" is not adequate. Additional support required after submission of the PID
     will be submitted in writing to the EOD Branch through 412 CE/CEN.
     2.2. The 412th Operations Group Resource Operations Center will advise the EOD
     Operations Control Center (OCC) (Commercial: (661) 277-2162; DSN: 527-2162) of
     scheduled missions which require other than emergency response support at least two weeks
     prior to the test and advise the EOD OCC as soon as possible of any cancellation or delays.
     This schedule will ensure EOD has adequate manpower available to provide the required
     support and time to requisition required explosives, if necessary.
     2.3. The 412th Civil Engineer Directorate will assist EOD in receiving the required training,
     equipment and technical data support.
     2.4. EOD will:
        2.4.1. Upon receipt of the PID and Test Concept document, review the document to
        determine if EOD has the capability to provide the requested support. EOD will then
        provide input to the 412th Civil Engineer Directorate Capability and Resource Estimate
        (C&RE) stating operational capability to support the program and any shortfalls.
        Additional information on specific task requirements such as recovery or disassembly of
        items for further evaluation or disposal of items due to hazard or classification will be
        addressed in this document.
        2.4.2. Request validated EOD/Render Safe Procedure source data package from Det 63,
        HQ ACC for project support.
        2.4.3. Request cancellation of any mission through the 412th Test Wing Safety office,
        when technical data and required tools have not been provided in time for familiarization,
        training of personnel, and/or procedural development as required by para 2.
EDWARDSAFBI32-201 29 MAY 2014                                                                    3


       2.4.4. Ensure tools, recovery, render safe and disposal procedures are complete at least 5
       days prior to the start of testing.
3. Training/Procedural Development. Because of the hazardous nature of EOD operations,
unit personnel will require advanced training on any aircraft, munitions or explosive item to be
tested, loaded or stored at EAFB or on the EAFB range complex. These requirements will be
stated in the C&RE listed in para 3.2.1. Depending on the extent of the support required and the
availability of validated 60-series EOD publications, this training may span from general
familiarization training to advanced, technical and hands-on training. Training will include, but
may not be limited to, general safety precautions, specific item hazards, theory of operation, and
render safe procedures, if known. If the item being tested is new or in the developmental stage,
EOD personnel will be required to develop a local test directive establishing render safe and
disposal procedures. To facilitate this, the responsible agency, as defined in paragraph 3, must
provide the information listed in DD Form 1664 no later than 30 days prior to the arrival of
asset(s) to EAFB, as required by DoDD 5160.62 and TO 00-5-3. These procedures must be
approved by Weapons Safety prior to commencement of the test. Access to relevant information
and training required to provide support to classified programs will not be denied to EOD
personnel who support these programs. If the test is classified or requires special access, all 412
CE EOD personnel must be granted access to, and provided training on, the project
ordnance/aircraft system. This requirement will ensure a minimum of two EOD personnel are
always available to provide emergency or routine support to the project. Failure to meet these
access and training requirements may lead to denial of critical emergency support.




                                             MICHEAL T. BREWER
                                             Brigadier General, USAF
                                             Commander
 4                                                 EDWARDSAFBI32-201 29 MAY 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCE AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-3001, Change 1, Air Force Explosive Ordnance Disposal Program, 2 June 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 32-30, Explosive Ordnance Disposal, 21 June 2013
DoDD 5160.62, Single Manager Responsibility for Military EODT&T, 3 June 2011
EAFBI 21-207, Munitions Technical Data, 7 December 2009
TO 00-5-3, Air Force Technical Manual Acquisition Procedures, 31 December 2009
Adopted Forms
AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 1664, Data Item Description

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
C&RE—Capability and Resource Estimate
DD—Department of Defense
EAFB—Edwards Air Force Base
EOD—Explosive Ordnance Disposal
OCC—Operations Control Center
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PID—Program Introduction Document
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TO—Technical Order
