BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                           EDWARDS AFB INSTRUCTION 32-1001
EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                               20 AUGUST 2012

                                                                               Civil Engineering

                                                                         FACILITY MANAGER



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 412 TW/CEOS                                                        Certified by: 412 TW/CE
                                                                               (James E. Judkins)
                                                                                        Pages: 12


This publication implements Air Force Instruction 32-1001, Operations Management. This
instruction has information to assist Facility Managers (FMs) in managing Air Force facilities at
Edwards AFB. It identifies and explains procedures for recognizing, addressing, assessing and
resolving various situations. The FM is the key to effective facility management: fire
protection, occupant safety, facility security, repairs, maintenance, minor construction, space
utilization, energy management, emergency management and overall contract services within the
facility. All of these combined responsibilities constitute proper on-site care of the facility.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMA 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office or Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command.            Air Force Personnel must ensure any
information/records to be provided outside official DoD channels, including foreign nationals,
must be released in accordance with the provisions of AFI 35-102, Security and Policy Review
Process, and have the approval of the release authority. If a written request for DoD records has
been made by an persons, organization, business, excluding a Federal Agency, that either
explicitly or implicitly invokes the FOIA, it must be processed by the local FOIA Requester
Service Center (412 CS/SCOK) in accordance with DoDR 5400.7-R_AFMAN-32-302, DoD
Freedom of Information Act Program.

1. Orientation. Your unit commander/director is responsible for the care, custody and
protection of assigned real property. As the FM, you are their representative and official contact
 2                                                 EDWARDSAFBI32-1001 20 AUGUST 2012


whenever the facility needs work done by the 412th Test Wing Civil Engineer Division (412
TW/CE). It is mandatory for newly appointed FMs to receive orientation and instructional
training within 30 days of initial assignment. The training provides guidelines on your duties
and responsibilities when first assigned as a FM. Thereafter, annual refresher training is required
2. Assignment. All facilities at this installation are assigned to individual unit commanders,
typically by action of an installation-level Facilities Board or Space Utilization Integration
Project Team. The unit commander assumes the responsibility for all facilities assigned to the
organization and the Real Property Installed Equipment (RPIE) therein.
     2.1. The unit commander will designate in writing an officer, E-4 and above, or civilian
     equivalent as primary and alternate FMs for each facility assigned to the organization.
     Duties of the FM must be performed by a military member or Department of Defense civilian
     due to the mandate to exercise effective control over the inherently governmental functions
     of facility management, including the expenditure of government funds to maintain
     government buildings.
     2.2. In multipurpose facilities, the major user should be assigned as the primary FM. Any
     other organization using a portion of a multipurpose facility will be allowed to appoint an
     alternate FM for its area. Alternates can process actions with the 412 TW/CE, but should
     coordinate with the primary FM. By doing this, the primary FM will be able to keep track of
     what is planned and being accomplished in the facilities. If you are the FM of a tenant
     organization, the
412 TW/CE provides your support. In your case, a copy of the host-tenant agreement with the
412 TW/CE should be on file in the organization. If you cannot find a copy, contact the
412th Test Wing Civil Engineer Division Asset Management Branch, Real Property Section
(412 TW/CEAO) for assistance at 277-4732. The host-tenant agreement will define support that
can be expected. Questions regarding this instruction or on this process can be referred to the
Customer Service Unit (CSU) at 277-3330.
     2.3. The unit commander will ensure facility alterations, additions or new construction are
     not done without 412 TW/CE approval or wing approval, if required. The 412 TW/CE must
     approve all work in real property facilities, regardless of the method used; therefore, work
     that will be done using an AF Form 9, Government Purchase Card or Simplified Acquisitions
     of Base Engineer Requirements will require 412 TW/CE approval.
     2.4. Unit commanders will ensure no change is made in the use of real property without the
     approval of the Edwards AFB Space Utilization Integration Process Team (SUIPT) and the
     Planning and Zoning Committee.
     2.5. Unit commanders must ensure real property and RPIE are not removed relocated,
     altered or otherwise changed without prior approval from the 412 TW/CE.
     2.6. Unit commanders will ensure vacated facilities are left in a clean, undamaged condition
     (except for fair wear and tear) and adjacent grounds have been properly policed until
     transferred to the 412 TW/CE.
3. 412 TW/CE Overview
     3.1. 412 TW/CE will provide the following mission support:
        3.1.1. Provide utilities, maintenance and repairs.
EDWARDSAFBI32-1001 20 AUGUST 2012                                                               3


       3.1.2. Make alterations to existing facilities.
       3.1.3. Construct new facilities.
       3.1.4. Provide fire protection.
   3.2. The General Plan supports the Installation Commander’s priorities and goals for
   Edwards AFB. It provides the Installation Commander and other decision-makers a picture
   of present and future capability to support its mission with its physical assets and delivery
   systems. The General Plan is a concise, stand-alone document, summarizing information
   from a variety of sources. It serves as a guide for site-specific future development and
   provides general background information in land use growth patterns and provides a way to
   balance investments on the installation’s infrastructure. The General Plan’s illustrative
   format provides decision-makers with an understanding of the character and structure of the
   installation.
   3.3. Edwards Air Force Base Design Standards. The FMs are reminded that all work on
   facilities and associated grounds assigned in their area of responsibility must conform to the
   requirements of the Edwards Air Force Base Design Standards. These standards may be
   found at https://maps.edwards.af.mil/IGIS/Index.aspx then click again on ―EAFB Design
   Standards.‖
   3.4. There are two major ways that work is accomplished at Edwards AFB facilities: by
   contractor or by the 412 TW/CE. The FMs will be most involved with the work that is
   accomplished by the 412 TW/CE.
4. Contract Funding Avenues. The law requires the 412 TW/CE to use different funding
categories for construction, repair and maintenance; each with its own requirements and
restrictions. The first two, Minor Construction (MC) and Maintenance and Repair (M&R), are
controlled no higher than Major Command (MAJCOM) level and done rather quickly. The
Military Construction Program and Emergency Construction programs require a much longer
lead time than locally-controlled programs but provide much greater funding and construction
flexibility. In all cases, the FM identifies the work required and the 412 TW/CE will identify the
appropriate funding source. For contract work, the base facility utilization board will review the
projects and set overall priority. The FM and unit representative should know the requirements
for unit projects. The 412 TW/CE will prepare any additional paperwork required (DD Form
1391, FY – Military Construction Project Data) to request approval for contract work and design
the project. The unit representative should attend appropriate design review meetings to verify
the plans entail facility work requested.
   4.1. MC. These projects are funded from Operations and Maintenance (O&M) funds. The
   law limits MC projects to $750,000. These funds must be used to alter facilities whether
   moving a structural wall, adding on to the facility, extending the utility lines or adding a
   driveway.
   4.2. M&R. These projects are funded from O&M funds. The MAJCOM's approval
   authority for maintenance is unlimited. Repair approval authority is limited to $5 million as
   long as the combined cost of all construction proposed for a facility does not exceed 70
   percent of its replacement value.
4                                                 EDWARDSAFBI32-1001 20 AUGUST 2012


    4.3. Contract by Requestor (CBR). If a customer wants to do a CBR, the customer submits
    an AF Form 332 and indicates CBR on the form. It is up to 412 TW/CE to determine if the
    CBR will be allowable. Typically, if the work is mostly equipment installation and minor
    real property work, a CBR will likely be approved. If the work is typical real property
    alteration, the CBR will be denied. If the CBR is approved, the AF Form 332 goes through
    the normal coordination process. Once the coordination is complete, a work order is
    assigned and then a project number. The customer must sign and agree to provide all of the
    applicable information required on the CBR agreement prior to the AF Form 332 being
    approved. A Project Manager (PM) is assigned to the CBR project and the customer must
    work closely with the PM. The customer must update the PM to inspect the project properly.
    The customer must provide a copy of the awarded contract, notice to proceed and all
    applicable data.
    4.4. As the FM, you will deal with various 412 TW/CE functions: CSU, Fire Protection,
    Energy Management, Engineering and Real Property. Of most importance is the CSU, the
    single point of contact between you and the 412 TW/CE. The CSU is also the function that
    reviews and processes the work requirements and helps monitor the progress of work being
    done.
    4.5. As the FM, you may need to order new or replace equipment. Before doing either,
    check with the CSU. In some cases, work must be done by the 412 TW/CE before
    appliances or equipment can be installed.
    4.6. Heating and Cooling Changeover Overview:
       4.6.1. Cooling changeover starts the first week of May. As the outdoor temperature rises
       during the month of April, the heating systems are turned off and preparations are made
       to transition into the air conditioning changeover. The goal for completion of this phase
       is Memorial Day.
       4.6.2. Heating changeover starts the first week of October. As the outdoor temperature
       drops during the month of September, cooling systems are turned off and preparations are
       made to transition into the heating changeover. The goal for completion of this phase is
       the end of October.
       4.6.3. No Heat/Cool Zone (September and April). This Air Force wide program serves
       two purposes. First, it provides a period of time to prepare the base systems for
       operations during the coming heating or cooling season. Secondly, during the 2-3 week
       periods where neither cooling nor heating systems are in full use, the Air Force saves
       energy resources.
    4.7. Learn to plan ahead. For example, request major changes in heating, storm windows,
    etc., in early spring. Request changes in air-conditioning equipment in late fall to make sure
    work is completed by early spring. Take into consideration the lead time to procure materials
    and size of the job when asking for a completion date.
    4.8. Escorts into controlled/restricted areas must be provided by the requesting organization.
    4.9. Due to personnel rotations and mission changes, some requirements may not be
    necessary by the time work is actually approved and started. Constant communication is
    necessary to preclude unnecessary work and expenditure of funds.
EDWARDSAFBI32-1001 20 AUGUST 2012                                                               5


5. Service Call. The 412 TW/CE maintains a 24-hour-a-day, 7-day-a-week capability to
respond to emergency conditions.
   5.1. Emergencies. An emergency condition is one detrimental to the mission. If the
   condition is not corrected immediately, it could result in a major breakdown of the mission
   with a reasonable expectancy of reducing operational effectiveness. Emergency work is
   required to provide adequate security to areas subject to compromise, eliminate serious
   health hazards, prevent serious fire or safety hazards or protect valuable property and
   equipment. An emergency will always include but is not limited to failure of any utility, fire
   protection, environmental control or security alarm system. If the facility has loss of heat,
   steam, gas, liquid fuels, water, or clogged plumbing (when the entire system is affected), it
   might be designated an emergency. Failure of a critical air conditioning system, power
   failure or faulty electrical systems are emergencies.
      5.1.1. If you are not sure if you have an emergency condition, ask a CSU representative.
      The CSU will accept notification that an emergency condition exists from anyone having
      knowledge of the condition.
   5.2. Less Than Emergency Situations. The CSU provides a means for processing many
   requirements that are not classified as emergencies. The FMs should be the point of contact
   submitting those requirements. If there is an urgent requirement, call the CSU who will
   determine whether the work can be completed without a formal written request, special
   planning or material support. If possible, the technician will assign the requirement to
   URGENT service. If the request does not warrant urgent support, it will be assigned
   ROUTINE processing.
NOTE: Obtain a work order number when contact is made with the CSU for tracking purposes.
Record this number on a log to help monitor work and follow-up requirements.
6. M&R (Routine Work)
   6.1. Work required to preserve or restore an existing facility is categorized as M&R work.
   Some examples are repainting, replacing floor tiles or light fixtures, repairing heating
   systems and interior renovation where the volume, footprint, and structural components of
   the facility will not be changed. Identify these requirements by conducting regular monthly
   inspections of the facility and its RPIE.
   6.2. The FMs will periodically receive a call from the 412 TW/CEAO to schedule facility
   inspections. Use these regularly scheduled visits to check the condition of the utilities,
   floors, support structures or various areas of the facilities. Use these inspections and early
   identification of deficiencies to keep the facilities in good condition. The FMs should
   accompany the412 TW/CEAO personnel during these inspections.
   6.3. When you request M&R work (there may be more than one item), fill out an AF Form
   332. Describe each item of work to be done. If necessary, include sketches or diagrams. A
   single item of maintenance or repair that does not need a detailed sketch should be called into
   the CSU. As the FM, you will review and coordinate on the request.
   6.4. Use these assigned work order numbers for follow-up actions. Note all actions
   pertaining to the AF Form 332, from submittal through job completion, in your FM log.
 6                                                EDWARDSAFBI32-1001 20 AUGUST 2012


7. New Construction
     7.1. New construction means building an entirely new facility or modifying, adding to or
     otherwise altering an existing facility. Some examples include installation of HVAC
     equipment types or RPIE not currently installed, expansion of the current building footprint
     and volume, and renovation that changes the building foundation or vertical structure.
     7.2. If someone else fills out the AF Form 332 when a facility requires new construction, the
     FM must review it and the unit commander must sign the form. The AF Form 332 comes in
     a four-part set. The reverse of the form contains instructions for preparation. Read the
     instructions carefully and follow them completely. Describe the work to be done and include
     (attach) sketches or diagrams and the exact electrical requirements for new equipment.
     Explain why the work is necessary (justification for request) and when it should be done.
     The requested work will have to compete with other work and the priority assigned to the
     request may depend on your justification. The importance of strongly-worded justification
     cannot be overemphasized.
     7.3. The priority of each work request will be assigned using the following categories and
     criteria:
        7.3.1. Mission. Work in direct support of the overall base or tenant unit mission that if
        not done would reduce operational effectiveness.
        7.3.2. Safeguard Life and Property. Work needed to give adequate security to areas
        subject to compromise, to eliminate health, fire, or safety hazards, or to protect valuable
        property or equipment. Also include energy conservation work.
        7.3.3. Support. Work which supports the mission or prevents a breakdown of essential
        operating or housekeeping functions.
        7.3.4. Necessary. Not qualifying for higher priority.
     7.4. Once the AF Form 332 is completed and saved, send the electronic work request to the
     CSU where the form will be processed. Depending upon the request, prior coordination with
     the fire department for fire hazards, the base Bioenvironmental Engineer for health and
     environmental hazards, the safety officer for safety hazards, or communications for telephone
     service will speed the process.
     7.5. Once the AF From 332 is validated, it will be assigned a work order number. The CSU
     will return one copy of the form that shows this number in item 4 with a cover letter that
     indicates if the request has been approved or disapproved. Record this number and all
     actions that pertain to the work request, from original submittal to job completion on AF
     Form 332. It is paramount to maintain a FMs log. Typical headings on the form would
     include work order numbers, urgency date, description, AF Form 332 submission date, work
     completion date and remarks.
8. Self-Help Work
     8.1. Self-help is an excellent way to do some important projects that would normally receive
     a lower work request priority. Accomplishing self-help work cannot be done unless
     coordinated by the 412 TW/CE.
EDWARDSAFBI32-1001 20 AUGUST 2012                                                                7


   8.2. This rule applies even if the units supply all their own labor and materials. The 412
   TW/CE must ensure the work is completed properly. It is costly to tear down a wall or
   newly paneled area if it creates some type of fire or safety hazard.
   8.3. To receive permission to do self-help projects in the facility, fill out an AF Form 332.
   Describe work to be done and include sketches or diagrams. Item 10 of the form provides a
   place to list donated resources. The CSU can assist or direct you on the procedures that are
   required to obtain materials for self-help.
9. Space Management. The FM of a complex of shops and offices that belong to several units
should stress to all occupants the subject of space management. Anytime someone wants to
move an office or swap areas between two or more units, notify the 412 TW/CEAO. You should
do this before any moves are executed because approval of the SUIPT must first be obtained.
Also, upon vacating a facility or space, notify 412 TW/CEAO in order to have a joint inspection
arranged. Someone from 412 TW/CEAO will assist in this inspection. At the time of inspection,
turn in all appropriate keys to the Real Property Manger.
NOTE: To make space management easier, ask for a floor plan of the facility. Include in the
plan which units occupy what space and keep the plan current. Notify the Space Utilization and
Optimization Office of any change to personnel occupancy or space utilization.
10. Custodial Services. If there is a contractor who performs custodial services in the facility,
the FM could be assigned to monitor the services. Someone from the 412th Test Wing Civil
Engineer Division Operations Branch, Contract Services Office (412 TW/CEOSS) will be
assigned to actually monitor the contract. Make sure facility occupants report to you first before
going directly to the 412 TW/CE or contracting with complaints about custodial services.
11. Air Force Suggestion Program. The AF Form 1000, Idea Application, that proposes minor
building improvements to the facility must be routed through the FM coordination. The 412
TW/CE is the implementing office of primary responsibility. You will need to prepare the
necessary work request documents if the suggestion receives approval; see AFI 38-401, The Air
Force Innovative Development Employment Awareness (IDEA) Program, for additional
guidance.
12. Energy Management
   12.1. The FM is responsible for energy management of the facility.
   12.2. The Department of Defense has designated Fiscal Year 2011 as the base line for
   computing nationwide energy conservation requirements. All government agencies are
   directed to reduce energy usage.
   12.3. The Base Energy Manager can communicate to the FM the reduction percentage target
   for the base and explain responsibilities in helping with energy reduction goals. The Base
   Energy Manger, who can be reached at 275-2126 can provide information, recommendations
   and answers to your questions on how to carry out this responsibility.
   12.4. The Base Energy Plan and the local base energy regulations set procedures you should
   follow for utilities management and energy management. The FMs responsibilities should
   include but are not limited to the following:
       12.4.1. Assisting the Base Energy Manager by implementing base programs and policies
       in the facility.
 8                                                   EDWARDSAFBI32-1001 20 AUGUST 2012


        12.4.2. Promoting a positive attitude for energy management practices.
        12.4.3. Making sure thermostats are set at correct temperatures during the heating or
        cooling season.
        12.4.4. Making sure all windows and doors are closed when the facility is being heated
        or cooled.
        12.4.5. Making sure inside lights are turned off when not in use during duty hours and
        after duty hours.
        12.4.6. Making sure outside lights are turned off during daylight and that they are not
        used in excess or beyond a requirement to provide safety or security during darkness.
        12.4.7. Making sure equipment in the facility is turned off during extended nonuse
        periods during duty hours and after duty hours unless the equipment must stay on for
        technical or practical reasons.
        12.4.8. Making sure plumbing fixtures, especially hot water, are not leaking.
        12.4.9. Making a periodic walk-through of the facility to make sure energy management
        is practiced by noting items listed above.
13. Environmental Responsibilities. The FMs are our best defense against disturbing potential
asbestos or lead-containing materials in facilities. The Environmental Protection Agency banned
the use of asbestos surfacing materials and pipe insulation. Some examples of possible asbestos-
containing items are floor tile, adhesives, joint compound and roofing mastics. Anything that is
not unpainted metal, glass, plastic or wood is considered a suspect material until it has been
sampled to prove otherwise. This also applies to facilities constructed after 1981. Since
asbestos-containing materials are still available, anytime a renovation or demolition is planned,
there is a need to have sampling conducted to prove there is no asbestos present. Even the
smallest renovation from cutting a hole for an outlet to a complete renovation or demolition
would need to have sampling conducted. The process is the same for lead paint. Anything
constructed prior to 1978, the paint is presumed to contain lead.
14. Fire Protection
     14.1. The FM is responsible to the unit commander for the fire safe condition of the facility.
     14.2. All FMs should accompany the fire inspector during scheduled fire prevention
     inspections. Throughout these inspections, the fire inspectors will note fire hazards and
     deficiencies, will explain duties and responsibilities for the maintenance of a fire safe facility
     and will provide instructions for required corrective actions. If FMs do not receive this
     information during the inspection or in a follow-up report, contact the base fire department
     for assistance.
     14.3. The fire prevention inspection is the quality control element of a unit's fire prevention
     program. During inspections, fire prevention inspectors pay particular attention to the
     following:
        14.3.1. The occupant's knowledge of fire reporting, evacuating and first-aid firefighting.
        14.3.2. The adequacy and condition of fire suppressants, detectors, alarms and protective
        systems and devices.
EDWARDSAFBI32-1001 20 AUGUST 2012                                                                 9


       14.3.3. The adequacy and condition of devices and facility features, (fire doors, walls,
       draft stops, etc.) to segregate and separate special fire hazard occupancy areas.
       14.3.4. The condition of heating, fuel handling and similar devices or equipment which
       can become hazardous if neglected.
       14.3.5. The adequacy of safe practices to prevent fires, the control of smoking and the
       proper disposal of smoking materials.
       14.3.6. The condition of electrical equipment and connections.
       14.3.7. All housekeeping practices.
       14.3.8. The adequacy, condition and accessibility of fire exits.
       14.3.9. Any evidence of self-help projects not approved by the 412 TW/CE, such as
       installed wood paneling or false ceilings.
       14.3.10. The adequacy, condition, location and accessibility of portable fire
       extinguishers.
   14.4. Correct fire hazards and deficiencies in a prompt manner. If necessary, ask the fire
   inspector for advice.
   14.5. As the FM, make sure these actions are completed if a fire occurs:
       14.5.1. Make sure a fire alarm is activated.
       14.5.2. Evacuate the facility or area.
       14.5.3. Notify the fire department.
       14.5.4. Use portable firefighting equipment (extinguishers, standpipe hose) to extinguish
       a fire if it is discovered in its early stages.
       14.5.5. Meet the fire response vehicles and direct the firefighters to the fire.
15. Facility Security
   15.1. Facility security is another responsibility of the FM. Establish a standard procedure for
   making sure the facility is secure from illegal entry at all times. Double check all doors and
   windows when closing the facility and be sure all locks are in good working order.
   15.2. Security Forces conducts regular security checks on base facilities. If the facility is not
   secure, the FM will need to respond immediately. A follow-up DD Form 1569,
   Incident/Complaint Report, will then be sent to your unit commander for action. Unsecured
   facilities are a command interest item.
   15.3. Impress upon all personnel the importance of facility security. If you have questions
   concerning facility security, contact Security Forces Crime Prevention Section, the Resources
   Protection Section or the Law Enforcement Desk.
16. Key Control
   16.1. The FMs are responsible for the security of all basic keys that service the facility.
   Security procedures should be established to make sure there is no duplication of keys
   without official written approval.
 10                                              EDWARDSAFBI32-1001 20 AUGUST 2012


   16.2. The FMs are not responsible for keys that control specialized areas in the facility
   (mechanical rooms). These are areas that organizations use for safeguarding their specialized
   equipment, sensitive documents and personal tool kits.
   16.3. The FM should repossess all keys from personnel who are leaving for a permanent
   change of station, who have been discharged or whose employment has been terminated.
   Keys issued to personnel going on extended leave or on a temporary duty assignment for
   over 30 days should be held for safekeeping. Upon vacating a facility or any assigned space,
   be sure the appropriate keys are returned to 412 TW/CEAO.
   16.4. All requests for keys should be made by submitting an AF Form 332 to the CSU.
   16.5. For other than normal wear and tear, replacement keys should be the monetary
   responsibility of the individual to whom the keys are issued. Check with the CSU to
   determine local procedures for key replacement.
   16.6. If the justification is sufficient, the 412 TW/CE locksmith will provide additional
   keyswith an approved AF From 332. The 412 TW/CE will issue master keys to the using
   organization when the facility lock system is rekeyed or if the locks are replaced. There will
   be no approval of requests for master keys without the concurrence of your unit commander
   and the 412 TW/CE. Record all actions involving key control in the FM log, Key Control
   Register.
17. Records. The records kept by the FM will provide the 412 TW/CE a chronological history
of the facility. The records provide trends in M&R requirements and identify potential problem
areas. The FM records contain the following:
   17.1. Specified Air Force Instructions, Operating Instructions and all other related guidance
   17.2. Facility Manager’s Handbook
   17.3. Facility Manager’s log
   17.4. Key Control Register
   17.5. Floor Plan
   17.6. Service Contracts
   17.7. Inspections: Fire and Safety
   17.8. Work Order Log
EDWARDSAFBI32-1001 20 AUGUST 2012                                                           11


18. Important Numbers. Important telephone numbers should be readily available, including
the following:

Table 18.1. Important Numbers

CSU...……………….…………………………….………………………….……277-3330

Real Property Office………………………………………………………………277-4732

Government Owned Civil Engineer Supply Store (GOCESS) …………….…..…277-2659

Energy Management…………………………………………….…………………277-4450

Fire Department Technical Services………………………………………….........277-3124

Safety Office…………………………………………………………….…………277-3316

Bioenvironmental Engineer……………………………………………….……….277-3272

Environmental…….…………………………………………….……….………...277-4475

Security Forces…………………………………………………………….………277-3340

Emergency Communications Center.……………………………………...………277-4540

   18.1. The responsibility of being an FM (primary or alternate) is most often an additional
   duty. Keep a continuity binder or set of binders. These binders are especially critical when
   the facility management responsibility changes. Include appointment letters designating the
   FM, applicable publications, work orders, notes on local procedures and any applicable
   meeting minutes.




                                           MICHAEL T. BREWER, Brigadier General, USAF
                                           Commander
 12                                          EDWARDSAFBI32-1001 20 AUGUST 2012


                                     Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
The General Plan
Edwards Air Force Base Design Standards
AFI 38-401, The Air Force Innovative Development Employment Awareness (IDEA) Program,
21 November 2007
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CBR—Contract by Requestor
CSU—Customer Service Unit
FM—Facility Manager
RPIE—Real Property Installed Equipment
MAJCOM—Major Command
MC—Minor Construction
M&R—Maintenance and Repair
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
PM—Project Manager
SUIPT—Space Utilization Integration Process Team
412TW/CE—412th Test Wing Civil Engineer Division
412TW/CEAO—412th Test Wing Civil Engineer Division Asset Management Branch, Real
Property Section
412TW/CEOSS—412th Test Wing Civil Engineer Division Operations Branch, Contract
Services Office
